"cautiously supporting this.at the very least it will save on clone costs"
"yes please"
"i can see the point.if you're a pvp pilot with mining skills, cutting those skills could save you isk since you won't need that additional few million sp invested in skills you don't want or need. it would also alter the character market by increasing the value on lower sp, better specialized characters. the ability for new players to remove partially trained skills, such as shield hardening skills, that they thought were a good idea and trained part way only to find themselves regretting later.i like the idea of stripping bad skills."
"yes supportedon top of that ccp has this habit of changing game mechanics and certain skill prerequisites so that having certain skills is pretty much useless, but yes you still have to pay for them when updating your clone, when your skill point pool becomes sufficiently large, clones indeed become quite expensive. example of such skill could be tactical shield manipulation 5, it was discussed in great depth on forums and i think everyone agrees that this skill is quite useless and in fact harmless to have at level 5, but some people still do have it as a relict from old times when it was prerequisite for capital shield operation. so removing or at least downgrading this skill would be very nice. so yes definitely supported"
"* need for more topography within null sec* need for more content, customization, and progression within null sec* need for more resources that can be attacked that will also generate conflict* need for more pve and pvp diversity within null secproposal: remove sovereignty bills and replace them with a new resource that powers all sovereignty upgrades and structures. limit the total amount of the resource that is available, within the universe, in a manner that will balance the resources scarcity so that while alliances will have to watch their stores they will not be losing their sovereignty every other day.back story: certain stars shed inordinate amounts of their mass via ejection or solar wind. these stars are rare and vary in their outputs. structures were constructed on these stars that would harvest hydrogen from the solar wind. these structures were akin to giant ram scoops. once they have collected the hydrogen, they then refine it to usable concentrations. some of the hydrogen is used, along with energy generated from the sun, to generate large quantities of antimatter. hydrogen and antimatter were then packaged together into removable charges that could be transported to other structures that needed power. these giant factories are still in operation within high security and low security space; however they have fallen into disrepair in null security space.antimatter fuel cells:* these are the fuel cells created by the stations in low orbit around the sun.* they cannot be stored for longer than 2 hours in anything other than a sovereignty structure using them, the production facilities in which they are created, or an auxiliary storage unit.* they destroy themselves after two hours.* they are large enough that only a handful of them at maximum can be crammed into the largest industrials.* each one can power a sovereignty structure for a given unit of time.* they deplete faster as you install more upgrades/services.production facility online:* you must install and online a command and control unit to online the facility. this unit might take the same amount of time to online as a small pos module.* the facility begins producing annihilation batteries as soon as this structure is online. the command and control module is immune to attack as long as the ihub within the system is also immune. it may be attacked when after the system has been conquered.* once the system is conquered, the command and control module may be destroyed and replaced. any fuel cells stored within the facility will be saved as long as a new command and control module is onlined within 24 hours of the destruction of the previous one."
"production facility upgrades:* fuel cell storage modules increase the number of fuel cells that you can store. (duh)* hypothetical numbers: you could install a max of 5 modules that double your storage capacity.* heat dissipation modules increase the production facilitys manufacturing rate so that you produce more fuel cells in a given 24 hour period.* hypothetical numbers: 6 modules that represent 10% of total production each.* all of these modules may be attacked at any time. their destruction would mean the immediate loss of storage capacity, and destruction of fuel cells, or the loss of production rate.* if they are destroyed, then a repair order must be given from the command and control module in order to prepare for the installation of new modules. this could possibly use other resources and should take at least 24 hours. there is also the possibility of limiting the number of repair jobs that a command and control module can perform at any one time. this would mean that 3 destroyed modules would require a cumulative 72 hours for all of them to be back online.* these modules are immune to all forms of electronic warfare.* they have a signature radius equivalent to a cruiser.* they orbit around the stations axis that is perpendicular to the suns surface. this gives them a non-zero angular velocity.* they have a physical radius that precludes the use of fighters or fighter bombers upon them.* their ehp should be balanced so that a moderate sized gang would have the ability to destroy a small number of them within 10 to 20 minutes, but that a larger gang would be necessary to destroy all of them within a reasonable amount of time.* attacking these modules would generate a warning mail to the owning alliance. there could be a potential delay added.reinforcement:* the production facility could be given the ability to reinforce itself once every 24 hours for a maximum of 8 hours. during this period all of the modules would be invulnerable to attack and the facility would burn strontium.* there would be a variance timer on the reinforcement mode of +/- 3-6 hours.* the owning alliance would set the schedule for reinforcement mode."
"alternate sources of fuel cells:* these would most likely be necessary in order to allow new groups to begin their conquest of null sec.* wormholes: anchor structures that produce very low amounts of fuel cells.* concord lp stores: very limited amounts of cells from concord via lp and a sizeable isk portion.* theft from other alliances or npc structures in low security or null security space. (see below)other options and possibilities:* auxiliary storage unit that could be anchored at a moon, but it would burn fuel cells to use. these could be attacked and destroyed at any time resulting in a total loss of their contents. we could also explore the possibility of being able to move these storage units from moon to moon or system to system with some sort of cool down.* player outposts could burn fuel cells. the more services you have the more they burn.* jump bridges could burn fuel cells.* fuel cells could be stolen from storage units or the production facility. i have not thought out a way to do this, but it would be nice if it used hacking and was limited and controlled somehow. it might be necessary to increase the amount of time fuel cells can be unplugged in order to foster their theft.* wormhole jam  could be a structure that you anchor at a wormhole. it burns fuel cells. it also keeps the wormhole open far beyond its mass and time limits.new nullsec agent system"
"what alexandra stormwing said. the dramiel is the fastest ship out there, no need for a nerf to that because it's not overpowered in its speed alone. but it's far too powerful to be that fast. i think its power should be nerfed.the dramiel is like they took an interceptor and an assault ship and slapped em together with the best of both worlds, and you get a dramiel. but that wasn't enough so they had to let it field 3 drones. sure it has trouble hitting stuff when it's vroming around at the speed of sound. everyone else has trouble hitting it. i don't see what's wrong with that.also i think the rifter is in need of a nerf. they're popular but i don't see them used perhaps as much as one might expect. however, i've used lots of frigates in various situations and the rifter is the one i keep coming back to. it's just got the best of so many things. it's pretty fast and with 3 low slots, you can fit it to go almost as fast as a slasher or other fast-type t1 frigate. but it still has a fair amount of powergrid, and can fit a medium shield extender with autocannons and an afterburner. i find that with this setup, and with nanofiber internal structures in the lows (and maybe a weapons upgrade or two), it's hard for other frigates or evens mall drones to hit me, even though they can't do much damage to my rifter with that gigantic shield extender on it. i can even sort of outrun heavy assault missiles while orbiting within range of my autocannons and firing at my target. this also happens to be within the range needed to warp scramble them. i've never tried fitting artillery and using a microwarpdrive (flying in a wide orbit to allow my rifter to track with them), but i know it can be cap stable doing that. i'll bet that is also an effective strategy, and would be particularly good at dodging missiles, stasis webifiers, and drones."
"the daredevil and cruor both cost more and have strengths and weaknesses which can be exploited. price shouldn't be the only balancing factor."
"do people realize a dramial is a faction pirate ship that is woth 100's of millions of isk?if other frigs cost the same it would make sense they get the same stats."
"why do people always want balance, what's the point of having 50 ships to fly if they're all the same. there is always a best ship. drake being best bc for example. this game has never had balance and never should attempt to. eve is more like paper rock scissors, everything has it's counter."
"here's an idea, nerf skilled pilots too. if you get too many kills ccp should start lagging you out to balance you with others, then everything would be balanced and everyone would be just as **** as every one else."
"i think the problem with railguns is that their dps and tracking is similar to artillery while their fire rate is more like that of beam lasers. this means they're no good for alpha strikes, but also no good for shooting small targets. i think maybe the solution would be to increase their range, then they become particularly useful for destroying drones and smaller ships at long range. that will go well with gallente ships, since the drones may have trouble hitting the smallest targets.also, many ships designed for hybrids simply do not have enough powergrid. this needs to be seriously looked at. a great example is the ferox, which is almost always fit with missiles when it is used. this is not only because even its battlecruiser skill bonus is inadequate to improve railguns to useful status, but also because it simply does not have enough powergrid to fit a full rack of them. it should lose a missile hardpoint or two, and have its powergrid increased by at least 10% i think.also i noted that the largest battleship railgun has substantially longer range than any other railgun, even its other battleship size counterparts. i wonder if that has anything to do with why the rokh is often considered the only good railgun platform, since it's the only battleship that has a hybrid weapon range modifier. that plus the additional range of the battleship size weapon may redeem it."
"i think it would be neat to have some modules fit best in between frigates and cruisers, or in between cruisers and battleships. the benefits are two-fold, in that they can be used on a destroyer or battlecruiser when the frigate or cruiser modules are not enough, or that they can be used on a cruiser or battleship when a pilot wants a smaller, less resource-intensive module.take for example:3mn afterburner i - 20 tf cpu and 20 mw powergrid - 40 gj activation cost - 4,500,000 n thrust and 1,500,000kg mass addition3 mn microwarpdrive i - 35 tf cpu and 45 mw powergrid - 90 gj activation cost - 4,500,000 n thrust and 1,500,000kg mass addition30 mn afterburner i - 38 tf cpu and 168 mw powergrid - 160 gj activation cost - 45,000,000 n thrust and 15,000,000kg mass addition30 mn microwarpdrive i - 68 tf cpu and 413 mw powergrid - 360 gj activation cost - 45,000,000 n thrust and 15,000,000kg mass additionor consider shield extenders vs. armor plates. armor plates have in-between sizes, but shield extenders do not, with the exception of the micro. also, the largest shield extender (large shield extender) is a comfortable size for a battlecruiser and a medium shield extender is a comfortable size for a destroyer. i find it hard to choose between the two when fitting a cruiser, as the large may take too much valuable powergrid but the medium doesn't boost shields by a very significant amount. and there is no shield extender that does much for a battleship, in contrast to the 1600mm armor plates which are most certainly too large for a battlecruiser to fit comfortably. it would be nice to add more sizes to shield extenders, such that they are similar to armor plates.as a final example (but not necessarily having covered all reasonable possibilities for destroyer and battlecruiser sized modules), the armor, shield, and energy repair and transfer modules. often times i find myself feeling that the correct-sized module for my ship is too weak, and i don't have room to fit 2 of them. i certainly can't fit the next size up. there have even been a few occasions in which i wanted to put one onto a tight ship fit, but didn't have enough powergrid to do so. i could fit the next size down, but it's usually so pathetic that it just fills the slot and doesn't really do anything. those times i wish i had something in-between the standard modules.that is all, tell me your thoughts on this proposal. do you like it, dislike it? do you think it'll affect the balance of the game? do you have thoughts/ideas to improve it? maybe you have an even better idea to solve the same problem?p.s. i want to stress that i do not think there should be destroyer or battlecruiser size weapons or drones. destroyers and battlecruisers have solved that problem by having more weapon slots than their frigate and cruiser counterparts. they are gunboats pure and simple, and their smaller cousins are for strategic uses. battleships are too large to be similarly strategic, and so are generally just gun boats. exceptions to this rule are such as the scorpion, which is a strategic powerhouse of sorts, which is fitting for a large ship. other than that, large strategic ships are capital ships."
"think some more, with stats like these the speed boost of mwd on bc will be about 1200%, and ppl will be fitting these on cruisers too. especially ab with speed boost of 600% on cruiser and no sig/cap penalty; second nanoage all over again"
"refine it a bit and then yes im game for this"
"i agree, in a slightly different way, modules could possibly not have 'ship sizes' as such, but a wider variety, nd you can fit what you want if you can do it.ie, why not have a frigate that is moded up to just go very fast? cpu and pg upgrades and a oversized mwd, it wont be able to do much other than go very fast indeed..or possibly a cruiser that has a single 1400 arty on it, its just a weapon platform for that gun..obviously that is very extreme ideas, but th eidea would allow a gretaer variation in ships that we see.i agree with your idea of having mid size stuff for when you want somethign just a little different. more variety = more fun."
"i've often wondered about this same thing. a more overall variety would be nice. it would definitely shake up the style of fittings we see. eft warriors would have a fitting frenzy! as long as the numbers on the new mods were properly proportioned, i don't see anything wrong with it. you'd also have a market frenzy too, but more options is always better. supported!"
"i had the same idea during my first month of eve.while i see the merit for allowing more fitting variety, the downside far outweight the (theoretical) benefit: the existing ship classes are (quite well) balanced around the 3 sizes for propulsion systems. making changes to that would require a huge amount rebalancing work for many ships. if it ain't broken, don't fix it."
"ironically enough, minigin has yet to figure out that lying and trolling while complaining about accurate accusations of lying and trolling is not, strictly speaking, intelligent."
"what?"
"eve would make a unique social experiment to determine if there is any truth behind dunbar's number, don't you think?perhaps they need a group psychologist in addition to their economist :)"
"it's not about dunbar's number though with regard to the members of the coalitions. just with regards to how many leaders of various alliances form relationships. they also don't have to be social relationships. ruthlessly self-interested folks who'll work things out to their mutual advantage don't have to be interested in each other socially any more than the board of directors of a fortune 500 have to want to have coffee with each other after work."
"you literally cant be serious.there is no way..."
"sanctums are easy btw for most well trained characters. more stuff should exist that is harder, from my experience its a rarity to find any kind of cosmic signature, usually its a gaymetric site or a wormhole. a system should be able to accommodate more, not less. a system in null sec should be possible to have 100 or more living in it, that would take pressure off clusters in high-sec.null sec already has quite a bit of conflict, and i doubt making the majority of it worthless ain't going to help, neither would it encourage more to be in it."
"ironically, the changes show how little forethought and analysis goes into some of ccp's change as of laet. dominion comes, and we're assured that they're going to change things so that it's easier to claim sov and so that more pilots can pack themselves into a smaller amount of space. but even ignoring broken upgrades, it turns out that you really can't support many pilots per system, and the mega-hp on sov structures means that if you don't have all night to fight unopposed, you need serious muscle and numbers and/or supers. so their proposed fix for this is to... further reduce the number of pilots who can occupy an alliance's space and make isk at the optimal rate. it's like trying to nail jello to the wall."
"this just in: the nc knows their truesec sucks. spare us the fake concern for the game. if anything, the nc's response is a good indication that ccp is right on the money with this change."
"trolling by using a fake quote instead of addressing my actual argument. refusing to address my actual argument about the principles behind sandbox play and pretending that it's \"fake concern\" so you can handwave it away. a catch 22 whereby if people agree then you're right and if they disagree than that just proves you're right even more... and of course a strange fascination and obsession with the nc out of all coalitions and potential coalitions. shocka."
"i agree somewhat. i think the solution would be a bit more complex, but the basic idea is right: it's too easy for supercarriers. they should be worth their money, but not solopwnmobiles."
"rather than immunity, give supercaps large values for sensor strength & warp stability. they're big, they should be strong - just not invulnerable. allow ships with siege/triage modules to gain super-high sensor strength while sieged.add a new ewar module, or script for ecm, that will reduce the drone control number or bandwidth of the targeted ship. thus you can shut down a supercarrier or drone sniper dominix by removing its ability to control drones.turn the super carrier's primary strength into its primary weakness."
"i think the problem is that players vote for candidates who have lousy platforms; voting players don't understand what the csm does, and they vote for the wrong candidates. top winner is a good example."
"umadbro?"
"they could include an editor that allows you to create skins for your ships that will show on your computer alone. and your friends could have the option to download the skins you made such that they can see your unique personalized ship skin."
"supported."
"that sounds like a complete waste of developer time. go play a singleplayer game."
"the problem with this is that players could grief other players by creating a hundred trial accounts and using them to grief people without costing training time or real money. then again, the same can be done with rookie ships.personally i feel that there should be an advanced shuttle that comes with your choice of a high slot and turret hardpoint, a medium slot, or a low slot; and a small amount of cpu and powergrid. it should be a bit slower and larger than the standard shuttle, and obviously much more expensive, though still it doesn't have to cost very much. it would be a good way to transport cheaply through dangerous territory and still have fitting options."
"hulk drones would easily kill shuttle but i agree that shuttle seems too boring and should have some slots, i think it would probably serve better as a quick dueling/transport ship for ppl to quickly get used to combat/losing cheap ships...maybe even a good lvl1 mission runner or a transport for dust ppl"
"don't forget a noob ship can do what i suggested but better (2 guns with a mid and a low and a drone)all i want is a lol ship to fly around shooting laz0rs that has an almost insta warp."
"you seem to be of the misinformed mindset that not many people spend their time in this game griefing others already...battleshuttles!!!!!!"
"not supported.a shuttle's only purpose is to get the pilot from point a to point b."
"almost insta-warp is the key. while i don't think it would be game-breaking to give shuttles a very very small armament, they warp so fast and are so cheap that they need to not have much. a rookie ship can fight a hell of a lot better than a shuttle, but it can't warp nearly as fast."
"if you want a shuttle with fittings, get a frig. the faster frig of each race fitted with speed mods can reach the same speed and agility (or more) as a shuttle.interceptor, even more so. the fact it can be used for combat doesn't mean it can't be used for a speedy luxury ride."
"so it's simple, some of us will never sell or transfer our characters at all, and some of us want extra security on our accounts.so i propose that a flag system be put in place (ie a lock) to prevent any of your chars on an account being tranferred. edit::: this lock would not be permanent. to unlock a character for either biomass or transfer, a grace period would be put into place. say 14 days, pending a quick investigation into the legitimacy of the unlock. this is about the average time to recover a hacked account. subsequently - unlock procedure would require a set of security questions, to assure account ownership, or use of those spiffy key lock usb things that were mentioned at fanfest.benifits - prevents hackers from stealing your account and trying to sell your characters for isk.your character will always be on that accountpeace of mind.cons - a pain in the butt to unfreeze however, people dont mind this if they want to keep their characters secure. --- other options ----- make an intensive questionaire and or something else to unlock the character later of if you want to transfer them.discuss!"
"i don't think a permanent character lock is appropriate.... but i do like putting a lock on your characters that impose extra clicks and difficulties to biomass and/or transfer a character."
"y not?"
"the problem is that a player could train a character down one path and then sack them and make a new one that insta-trains down a new path. i wouldn't have a problem with it as long as there is a substantial loss of sp (like 50%), and that there is also a maximum redemption rate, like a million sp per week. or if one drawback were increased, the other could be reduced or even removed.perhaps just allow the account to keep all of the sp and insta-train all of the same skills that the sacked character had, or alternatively and for skills already learned or not elligible, the sp can be redeemed gradually by allowing the redeeming character to train twice as fast until no extra sp are left to give out."
"i see what you mean, i would be okay to somewhat of a drawback."
"hey bob... i know we just had a corp thief, xxdeathkillergoatxx steal all our assets... but it looks like he biomassed his account immediately. any idea what happened to all our cool stuff?dunno ralph... but i just totally saw a titan sailing across the system piloted by a 24h old character."
"lol. but if we made an sp penalty as mentioned above, say between 30-50%, that would negate that(mostly)"
"i think the time factor is more important. even if you got to keep 25% of the character's sp, it could be enough to fit up the perfect skills needed to do something terrible and leave others with no way to track you.what if you got to keep all the sp, but simply only was able to apply it as fast as your normal sp (2x training speed till it's used up)? how does that sound?"
"given that you can transfer characters between accounts for a paltry sum, the \"only on the same account\" argument seems... fundamentally flawed.not supported."
"seriously... no. because it would be too easy to create a character... biomass, collect sp... rinse, repeat... even with a reduction, people all over would abuse this to no end. a terrible idea, same with microtransactions for sp, it's just another way to cheat the system. and that's what eve is not about. thank goodness. you'll just have to put your time in, just like everyone else, so deal with it. not supported!"
"so i buy a cheap character with crap training in the exchange, biomass him, and use that sp to boost my own main?or.. i'm maxed willpower/perception instead of waiting for a remap, i just take an alt character, train up any crap skill with his own maxed attributes, biomass him and use that sp to quick train skills with other primary/secondary attributes."
"no, no and no. if that were to happen everyone would have maximum sp by the end of the month."
"buy high-sp character on bazaar, transfer to my account. biomass character and add their sp to my own.no, would never be exploited at all!"
"rather pay $10 per m sp and do what i want with, and yes i would get full sp where i want in a few days so what?you're the first ones saying sp is not important and that a low sp char can do the same thing or catch an older one fast so shut up."
"if i recall biomassing characters just sends them to a special npc corp and also repeated biomassing of characters will get you account banned.lastly no no and never going to happen."
"sp is important in the sense that it allows one character more diverse skills to choose from. once that character enters a ship and fits modules, then no all that sp doesn't really matter.. and a low sp char can catch up.so... you shut up."
"worst idea ever!"
"i'd totally keep buying 50-100m characters to biomass and make one super character with all skills in game"
"yes"
"\"then\" makes sense, \"now\" didn't.solution: give that game more sense."
"hello there, first of all something about myself. i play this game since 2004, i was involved in almost every aspect of eve. in last couple of years my job got overly demanding so i just couldn't make enough time for it. well, thanks to the world economy i am unemployed for a while so a month ago i emerged myself in this awesome game again, this time, sick of pew pew, i tried something new. i went all in, sold my characters, and seeing how that can be a lucrative business i started to buy and sell low/mid sp chars with some minimal margin. and as i have a nice amount of isk i also deal in large scale trading. if you bought anything in jita in last month you have bought something from me :). only reason i am telling this is so i can assure all of you that this post is not about isk, i invest 2-10 bil per day, have around 40 bil in orders and assets atm, and 10bil in wallet just in case. now to get to the point . i had some issues with selling one of my characters lately. i will link that forum thread so i can keep this one as short as possible: herei might broke some rule with placing char that was still in corp at that time (which i announced on thread and in-game to buyer), but you can see it in every other thread. people decide to sell char, enter stasis and post sale add, and sometimes you get b/o so soon that char is still in corporate stasis. and i linked some in-game logs so i can prove my point to all the flamers and to cover my back, which was apparently also a mistake. so to summarise, buyer placed a deposit for my char, made me reject other offers and to close the thread since character was \"purchased\". as you can see in that thread, he also lied to me and wasted my time, not to mention ruining my sale. so i tried to be a man i stuck to a deal and offered, after all that fuss, to finalise the sale. that was also rejected, so i wanted to punish his insolence by keeping the deposit. there is no single rule that defines does ccp allow deposit or their point of view on it. now to the punch line: i petitioned it ofc, and i sadly dint have gm's permission to paste that conversation here, because, apparently, some things ccp want to keep in grey zone. i asked if the other party was even getting a warning for what he did but didn't get answer about it. only reply i got is to send isk back because of this rule that i have to paste here since it can affect character market in general, a rule that isn't posted anywhere! ******************************* it's completely fine to go back on a deal as long as it's made clear and that anything exchanged is being returned. ******************************* so why am i making this thread? simple, with this rule ccp completely cover the back of ppl who can influence character bazaar, and to warn all of you who are selling their character. i will give you an example. i have a 50mil sp char that i want to sell for lets say 13-15 bil. i browse the market before i put the add, find all characters that can be direct competition and place a false high bids. i contact seller in game and i outbid everyone, offering 2, 3, 5 bil more depending on sp and post a lofty deposit promising completion of trade in day, week, whatever. without direct competition i have now maximised possibility of selling my char for intended price, and with successful trade i just withdraw offers and deposits because ccp got my back. before you flame this, i have to explain something, everyone is this game is after getting money. whatever you are spending it on, or investing, or if you simply want to fill that wallet till it explode, we all want to make a good deal and amass wealth. so majority of ppl will wait for some time if they can get even more than the highest amount they hoped for for their character. who would turn down couple or several extra bil? **continued**"
"as i said, that sum i have returned is less then 5% of what i have, it is insignificant to me, and the other party didn't even get a warning. this is not about the money, this is about absolutely no protection for me or you (as a seller of character) against this exploit of rules that are not defined anywhere, which can interrupt or stop your sale completely. so ccp, please, make all of your rules available to everyone, try to fill in the loopholes. put more ppl on thread moderation, i am still waiting (5 days since i reported) for someone to lock that thread. give some love to this high end trade that you earn money from. i just had to get this out there. sincerely, dragic mile"
"so have you returned his isk yet?"
"yes ofc, gm ordered me to."
"did you escalate the petition to a senior gm?"
"gm assigned was kind to inform me that i am obligated to return isk or to suffer the consequences... i am parphrising since i have no permision to quote or paste our conversation.i don't want to risk the ban because i know ccp will not be on my side here, no matter if am the one getting screwed.i just have to show this rule again if you ppl missed it in original post:\"it's completely fine to go back on a deal as long as it's made clear and that anything exchanged is being returned.\"can you ppl tell me if you have seen this anywhere? anyone?"
"i have seen this here, why is this horror show in this forum?*what has been seen etc*"
"i started this proposal because i have noticed that the ores in different faction \"quadrants\" of new eden have very disproportionate market values, and because i believe i know the answer to balancing their market values from a general standpoint. that's not to say that ore prices won't fluctuate and that ore from one quadrant can be expected to be the same value of ore from another quadrant; however at current yields, pyroxeres and kernite will always be more valuable than their counterparts plagioclase and omber regardless of the market value of the minerals they yield.i figured out what caused this when i made a chart of mineral yield for my own personal reference. i charted the yield of each specific mineral by volume (as it is mined), and compared all of the ores together side-by-side. here are some interesting figures:omber yields more isogen than any other ore, and virtually insignificant amounts of anything else.plagioclase yields more mexallon than any other ore, slightly more than half as much pyerite as scordite (the largest pyerite yielder), and a virtually insignificant amount of tritanium.now here is the important part:kernite yields about 80% as much mexallon as plagioclase, and about 85% as much isogen as omber. for this reason, kernite will always be substantially more valuable than either plagioclase or omber unless either mexallon or isogen is many many times more valuable than the other, which is virtually nigh impossible to happen due to the commonness of all three ores which yield these minerals.pyroxeres yields several minerals:* about 30% of the tritanium of veldspar (top tritanium yielder)* about 20% of the pyerite of scordite* about 55% of the mexallon of plagioclase* almost 40% of the nocxium of hemorphite (top nocxium yielder)the high nocxium yield is the primary reason pyroxeres tends to have a high value, but it gives a lot of mexallon as well, so even if mexallon gets very expensive, pyroxeres will likely still cost more than plagioclase. at current, nocxium prices are higher than ever, causing pyroxeres to be the most valuable highsec ore by a substantial margin, even surpassing kernite.the solution? here's what i think should be done. it's just a rough sketch done by a mere player, but i hope it helps, or gives some insight into other possible solutions:reduce the nocxium yield of pyroxeres substantially, perhaps by as much as two thirds or three fourths. this will cause lowsec and nullsec ores which are high in nocxium to become more valuable, and they will provide for the galaxy's nocxium needs. pyroxeres will still yield more than enough nocxium for most cheap industry such as industrials, cruisers, and ammunition.reduce the mexallon yield of kernite a lot (perhaps by half), and the isogen yield by a smaller amount (maybe a quarter). pyroxeres yields a fair amount of mexallon already, but the main concern with kernite is that its yield is so high in mexallon and isogen that one ship mining it is almost equivalent to two ships mining plagioclase and omber side-by-side. alternatively, the solution could be to increase the yield of isogen from omber and mexallon from plagioclase, or perhaps do both solutions to a smaller extent.if these changes were made, there would no longer be such a huge difference between mining in one quadrant versus the next one over, and miners would not feel obligated to travel across the galaxy and mine in crowded areas just to get the most isk per hour."
"another option: people should stop buying so many noctises :)until the noctis came along, the value of hisec ores was pretty much plagioclase, then scordite, kernite, pyrox, omber.in the meantime, miners interested in making the most isk/hr will move to where the more valuable ores are located."
"this is like asking the sec to fix the per-share price of stocks in the u.s. in order to \"balance\" the various industries the stock market serves.why should ccp implement meta-controls to control pricing? it goes against everything they say they stand for as far as the sandbox concept is concerned. game balance means that everyone can have a realistic shot at achieving something, it doesn't meant hat they are entitled to have access to everything that everyone else has given to them."
"pretty sure in char bazzar there are chars been bought and sold all day long every day. if you looked at the thread and had a little read properly you would see the link for the trade etc. please dont flame while making your self look a bit of a tard. regardsdeep"
"hint: it's not bagehi who's looking like a tard."
"file a petition, you will get no help on this issue here unfortunately."
"you can talk to my member."
"this doesn't belong here. wheres moderation when we need it..."
"seems reasonable, as long as the option is unintrusive."
"indeed. i would see it as just 2 extra lines added to the same window where you put collateral and payment amounts. if you were adding no bonus, you would just leave both the bonus and time lines blank."
"nifty option."
"supported. why not the same for item exchange contracts, too?"
"there is only 1 fix. in 10 years or at the least 5 cpu architecture will be much better. with the increased overall capability to do more work per cycle or more cycles ( mhz ) you will have basically lag free blob fights. ccp knows it and nerds like me know it aswell. they are optimizing the code and making it better which is fantastic. they are doing a wonderfull job. i started playing this game in 04 and the lag was +omg there is 200 in local lag cant do anything. ccp has done a fantastic job. whiners wanna whine. ccp you guys have done great. o/ if you do not like the game send me all your stuff and log off. :)"
"i agree that performance will be significantly higher, and that ccp is doing a good job. but merely optimizing and increasing cpu power is not fixing the lag, wich you should know as you proclaim yourself a nerd - cpu performance scales aritmetically, while load scales geometrically. 2000 ships shooting each other is significantly more demanding than 2 ships shooting each other x 1000.and do you apply the attitude \"if you do not like it...\" in real life as well? meaning that instead of voting againts some political party you move away from your country?"
"the core of the problem, as i understand it, is the inability of the eve core system to handle massive concurrency and take full advantage of parallel processing. the code needs a mockup, along with continual hardware upgrades."
"i just read this dev blog yesterday. it made me very hopeful for a lag free future: dev blog of hopeenjoy"
"blog link heremuch as it seems like joke why it's actually getting a bit serious.pretty much sums it up.the last content we received from ccp was pi which had promises all over it how it'd add a new system of dynamics to eve and how it'd add dust with eve etc.the only real content we got from pi is that pos fuel went up in price and pos modules went down in price. which was frankly bugger all.we've not had a good content patch since the last wave of t2 ships (the none bpo ones).ccp your making jokes out of content yet we yern for it.the deadline you setup for the content patches is getting closer and closer and the content receive is getting less and less.what we want are:new toys with explody things;fixes to old and frankly outdated content;more new toys;ships;guns;explosions;mounts for incarna;achievements;more money;more jobsmore space!!!!"
"/forum whine"
"...all niiiiiight long! <.<>.>"
"this should be very concerning.there are people who can help you with this."
"see, consider the possibilities. sure, the specifics can be hammered out. i just like the aesthetics of a personal shield. tbh, i'd be okay with pvp being very, very hard on highsec decks. say, for example, you have something like 1.5 seconds after drawing a special, concealed weapon to get off a shot. and if your target is 'tanked' in any way you almost definitely can't kill him. but i'm sure ccp can work out the nitty gritty. (who am i kidding, i'm sure that the csm can help ccp work out the nitty gritty and point out any truly pants-on-head ideas)"
"points 1) and 2) are key. i think this proposal makes a lot of sense and i wholeheartedly agree with it. also, i like the idea of gradually improving it not just because it shouldn't happen all at once, but also because stupid alliances (not listing any names) may venture into new space and frivolously spend billions and billions of isk to get its indexes up really high without even hanging out for a bit to make sure it's actually going to be a good home. and that isk comes from the taxes that we the members of such alliances pay.if you have zero incentive to move into that space, then don't move into it. by stabilizing everything, you decrease the overall motion and war over sovereignty. i guess it would work in a happy, friendly game, but not in eve.p.s. somebody failed macroeconomics. not mentioning any names."
"i think that would be awesome sir!"
"the anomaly change hurts the south far more than the nc hope that helps"
"as long as we have our technetium, they can't..."
"well, i mean, way back in the day it wasn't as if there were still coalitions and alliances who fought as a team, but they just belt ratted a lot if their members needed isk and... oh"
"take a look at dek truesec. why would he be crying?"
"we are like the one 0.0 alliance who benefits from that change"
"well it looks like you'll get a chance to do exactly that, unless you ragequit."
"gross."
"au contraire, its f**kin epic."
"i'm not sure i want to be represented by someone who would substitute roasted garlic for fresh garlic on whale steak."
"+1 for being awsome.and for having a double post about the pos issue in a topic dedicated to getting rid of double posts. (how awsome is that?)"
"supported.this should have been done 30 months ago but it died."
"supported.at the same time i dont think ccp will push the 6 month expantion to 9 because its on the box at best buy."
"your math is right but consider all the items to close distance. take a bit of very simple strategy into account and the argument will not hold watter."
"yes ccp's job is to ignore you and take your money anyway:p"
"and since feedback is useless you can all ways post here if you have some time to waste. the main problem being the we (blaster/rails players) can't enjoy the game.ho when i mean \"we\" i'm not talking for 1% nerds really playing with rails and saying to everyone and their cat they're fine, those ones should just stop drugs. i'm talking about all other that post here saying some thing's wrong and who dev's don't give a **** about."
"so there i was in my blaster ship, going toward the enemy npc i wanted to kill. i wasn't in range, i wasn't in range, i wasn't in range then suddenly i was but before i could fire i bounced off his ship and was out of range again. i tried to crawl my ship slowly into range of him but he just flew away. so i chased him and matched his speed, and with his virtually nonexistant ai he flew in a straight line. and i got in range... hit! glancing blow with tungsten!i had my blaster cruiser in a level 4 mission (it was probably an ishtar or something) and this machariel npc was orbiting me at like 3km. it was hitting me but i couldn't hit it. dunno why, i was in range.and then one time i was firing rail guns from a battlecruiser at level 3 mission frigates. i popped a few but they closed into range and i had to get em with my drones. but the real reason i'm mentioning this is cause i tried to kill one of those defender thoraxes and it just wouldn't die. every shot took out like 75% of its armor but it just repaired it again before the next shot hit. well i would have got it eventually, but it started orbiting me within 20km and i couldn't track it anymore. my max range is 40km.---but seriously, folks, a friend of mine bought several eagles on the market and reprocessed them to sell the stuff. he made several hundred million isk in profit. true story.also true is that all good ferox fits use only missiles, and they all fit on a drake."
"i think its a great idea. it could save you from having to upgrade your clone and maybe keep you from loosing a skill you really want to keep a worthless one."
"the \"need\" is so that the op can transport his capital skill books on human mules free of any risk."
"yes i absolutely agree. thanks for the comment."
"completely agree."
"a terrible idea. i fail to see why people keep whining about things like this. why would you want to remove a skill you trained? it is not like it's hurting you to be there. decreasing clone costs? rofl.. like people would delete enough sp to make that much of a difference in clone cost... who would delete millions of sp worth of skills?"
"i don't see why people think it will give anyone any unfair advantage. it will not. end of story. there is no possible way it could do that.now while i think there's absolutely no problem with implementing it, i also think it would be silly to do. i just can't understand people valuing a slightly cheaper clone over those useful side-skills.supported, even if only slightly. though i have no opposition to it."
"you don't know what the word 'balance' means."
"i too have access to all of the frigs in the game with near max skills.dramiels are killing frig pvp, please give them an exploitable weakness like the other faction frigs have."
"overdue, dramiel nerf is overdue"
"wow, i never expected to get this many replies! thanks everyone for the comments, feedback, and support!!i'd like to iterate a few points:1.) a lot of you are suggesting that there should be a discount for having the other characters running on the same account. true, you get the advantage of being able to run two characters at once if you use a separate account; however if you put the character on the same account, you can stop training it (stop paying extra) and still use it. therefore i think it is nice to have this strategic decision available to the players, and i think it would encourage slightly higher profits for ccp. and that is why i think there should be no discount for training additional characters on one account. also, it just keeps things simple, and simple things are much easier to implement.2.) some of you mentioned this being like microtransactions. i submit to you that you can already pay to have two characters, and you can even run them at the same time, simply by having them on separate accounts. this gives all of the benefits and more than you would get from training an alt on the same account. the key difference with training the alt on the main account is being able to play the character after you cease training it, and keeping things simple for folks who don't want to keep track of more than one account.and in response to mara rinn: sometimes an inconvenience requires you to take a different path to accomplish what you want, sometimes it prevents you from taking that path entirely. it is the goal of the company that makes the game not only to make the game difficult in many aspects, but also to make it capable in many aspects. i think the differences between training an alt on the main account and on a new account allow for plenty of strategizing without forcing the player to cease training on the main character. however, that's still an option. so it gives players more choices to ponder.p.s. i disagree 100% with the notion that ccp ought to allow two characters on the same account to be run at the same time. there are lots of potential problems with this, not to mention that it only costs $5 (activation fee) to start a separate account instead. i don't believe i've ever heard of a pay-to-play mmo in which you are allowed to have more than one character on the same account in-game at the same time. and there's plenty of good reason for that."
"it doesn't have to be those specific stats. the idea is to have a more powerful version that is better suited to destroyers and battlecruisers. the main reason i bring up the abs and mwds is that a destroyer fit with a frigate module, or a battlecruiser fit with a cruiser module does not get its full effect. they'll get about an 80% speed boost from an afterburner or a 350% speed boost from a microwarp drive. with the higher powergrid requirements, it'll be kind of tight to fit the larger modules on the smaller ships. also, you have the mass increase to worry about. it'll hurt less on the already massive destroyer or battlecruiser, but on a frigate or cruiser it can really screw with their agility.i think that also takes care of what aineko macx said. true, ccp would have to fiddle around with the settings a bit and do some testing to make sure nothing is overpowered. but i think it'll naturally balance itself for the most part, as the mass addition thing is really the mediator.as it stands, you can fit a 10mn afterburner to a frigate and run it for quite a long time. but the frigate's agility goes way down while it's active. a frigate with a destroyer ab would go pretty fast, but not as fast as it would with a frigate mwd. and a frigate with a destroyer mwd would firstly have to have a lot of powergrid, but secondly would need a lot of capacitor bonuses or a capacitor booster, and would not have much powergrid left for anything else. also, it would be pretty inagile despite going so fast. it would travel much faster than a destroyer with the same module, but would actually turn slower. because of this, it could not make quick tiny circles around other ships like it can with a frigate mwd.p.s. due to the masses and sizes of destroyers and battlecruisers in comparison to their frigate and cruiser counterparts, it might make more sense for the thrust and mass addition to be multiplied by 2 instead of by 3. no need to have frigates travelling in a straight line going 12km/s, or destroyers that can go fast but can't turn."
"so does anyone know how good the ded attractor ihub upgrade is?"
"all i ever hear from you is \"im really bad at actually playing this game, i need it stacked in my favour.\"you are not and never were entitled to sanctums or jumpbridges. it was lucky you got them at all. time to grow up and realise how bad they are for the game."
"upgraded systems can support more pilots than non-upgraded systems. ratting (anomalies and belts) produces a decent income while still being available for defense, roams, cta, and other interaction with people in nullsec. switching to a jump clone or mission-running alt in hisec means you are not available for null sec operations. the trade-off is clear and the current isk-faucet runs much faster than pre-dominion.this part of sov mechanics is certainly quite broken, and any future development must address the issue. ensure that the issue is brought up by itself in the assembly hall and you will receive plenty of support from sensible players. the change to anomalies appears to be an attempt to close of a huge isk faucet. the messaging from the economist has consistently been, \"more blowing stuff up, less pouring money in.\" that greyscale assumes reducing the spread of lucrative systems will increase conflict rather than driving isk-thirsty pilots to hisec is unfortunate. on the positive side, knowing that the pilots left carebearing in nullsec are the ones too lazy to move back to hisec means there are more opportunities for cheap supercarrier kills."
"well, yeah, there are advantages to ratting/running omnomnomnoms in nullsec. but the point is that ccp claimed they were aiming specifically and deliberately increase the carrying capacity of nullsec space, and are now doing, literally, the exact opposite. and both times they've claimed that the action and its diametric opposite is for the health of the game. they're rather obviously making it up as they go along. i'm also sure that the sov grind will be dealt with sooner or later. the csm is hardly unaware of how awful it is, especially since many of the delegates have participated in/led those godawful sov-bashing sessions. that, i'd wager, will be a fairly high priority for them. i do think, however, that you're missing some important facts about isk-making, even if we ignore ccp's bizarre rationalizations for their actions. your average pilot can have a lvl4 mission alt, and pay for it with plex, without ever having to take their main out of 0.0 space for a minute. even if they are in empire with their main, it really doesn't take much time to get back home; i can get from curse to h-w in about 30 minutes, and that's when i'm war dec'd and not setting the autopilot before i go to sleep or have dinner, or whatever. the problem there is that while it may potentially serve as a conflict-driver, i really don't see it doing all that much. we had coalitions and massive alliances before sanctums, there's no reason to think that we won't even after the changes go through."
"this.also, i'm reading everything you type as though you spoke that way. honestly, it's taking me far too long to even read one sentence. it takes me longer to read one independent clause than it should to read a full paragraph.you, do not have to, type like this. it is, simply; incorrect. it is, difficult to understand; how you do not, realize that you; are the one, who is typing incorrectly."
"and representative democracy is even worse. don't be a moron."
"think about all those matter that don't interest even 10% of total population, what would you think a vote for this matter would look like?this csm has 2 or 3 interesting persons inside, everything else it's just the result of nerds vote incapable to speak/write/read correctly their own language but it's the mirror of this game, like it or not it's a fact."
"clearly shuttles need a doomsday death ray, not a gatling pulse laser.imma firen mah lazor!!! bbllaaaahhhhhh"
"support, i'd never sell any of my characters as i trained them all from scratch."
"you raise a nice counter point, if i may offer a different point.what about a grace period. with email verification, and or 10 day waiting period on transfers?"
"that's a reasonable compromise (tho you can't call it permanent anymore). supported!"
"supported with the inclusion of a (preferably longer than this) waiting period to unlock a character. i'm thinking closer to a month."
"i like it."
"i like this. added security."
"ok edited the original post giving a larger grace period and other precautions.mostly this is for the security of accounts and characters. isk and ships can always be replaced, years of work cannot be."
"no. commit to a character and deal with consequences."
"with their mass and signature radius, they can be warped to instantly. if a ship can lock onto a cyno light-years away in a different system then surely they can lock onto a supercapital in the same system. the fleet with the supercapitals can still defend themselves and fit the supercapital with a cloak but at least then, it would take longer for them to ez gank and therefore, allow more time for an enemy fleet to enter the system and attack."
"oh and that way, it's more likely it will be caught rather than having it hide in a safespot without the need for a cloak and then their more agile ships just simply run."
"rofl! this is soo fail.ur ships long range sensors are tuned to detect cosmic and celestial bodies ie things with insane mass and things producing a rediculous amount of energy. and a super is neither of those things compared to either the size of a planet or moon or the energy expendature per second to light a beacon thats seen for 100's of lightyears!so on a purely technical/logical level your proposal doesnt work.. and in terms of a game element its sooo fail too you'd have soo many pos kills from people warping to low sec pos's that a super would cyno to. so this is either a \"urgh i got ****d by a nyx rage\" post, or an \"i have a nyx bt no skills yet to use it well bt want to see ships die near me\" post. ill let the rest of us pick which one seems more likely\o/"
"i disagree with geeshizzle maccloud, but i also disagree with this proposal. it's a cool idea, but it screws with too much balance. in another game, perhaps."
"i've read your op several times and i'm still struggling to figure out what happened and why you're complaining. are you stating that people should be allowed to refuse to return isk following the collapse of a deal in the character bazaar? despite the \"absolutely no scams\" rule?"
"i think he is stating that there is a problem with people making bogus offers in order to influence character trades, either preventing them by making a deal with the seller and then backing out, or making bids on your own character to bring up price.not that this is news to anyone, or that anything could be done about it."
"i would also point out that a very petty player could play the market with such a rule. for example:player a sells an item for 15m.player b buys item for 15m because he thinks he can make a proffit.'market drops for item'player b is now at a loss but thanks to this rule he can cut losses by demanding a refund from player a.i wouldent say 'good post' but it is an interesting post."
"sorry boys and girls if i didn't make myself clear. english is not my primary language, and i struggle a bit to explain this complex situation properly. i will try to simplify it and use my best english here :) i make a deal with you to buy your character. i promise you enormous buyout, 20% more than character is worth. i deposit lets say 5 bil to you, so you can close auction and announce that character is sold. and i promise the rest of money in hour/day/week. thing is, now i can just drop out of a deal and ccp will order you to return that isk to me. so you are at major loss there, you canceled your auction, you rejected other buyers, and your time is completely wasted. that's what i am talking about. i hope it is easier to understand now. because that happened to me. i had a buyer for my character, i rejected other offers, this dude place deposit, and back out of the deal. so i lose isk, chance to sell character, and precious time. and after that i am obligated to return deposit to other party that sabotaged my auction.and to gypsio iii:where do you see a scam there?"
"the reason for the rule is fairly simple. to avoid isk selling. if people were allowed to keep the \"deposit\" money using the character bazaar to launder isk would be extremely easy. start sale, accept \"security deposit\" from isk seller. then the character buyer cancel the trade. you keep the isk. a nice exchange of isk without any trade, but the isk buyer would try the excuse \"i was selling a character, the other side cancelled the deal but i am keeping the security\"."
"for those of you that dont know the concept that eve is a sandbox is a lie. this is a quote from one of the wose situations; (look into it and you will find similar situations have happened a on a few occations)i feel that this is not right. i understand that eve is the intellectual property. if such things are required for the devolpers to run their story line then so be it. i would ask that they do something to prevent players from being cheated out of theirtime and resources.disclaimer: the oppenions stated are my own and not my alliance or corps."
"given the ridiculous tilting of the risk/reward balance toward hisec in incursions as well as these events and most of eve for the last few years, i have a hard time giving a rat's ass.you picked the losing side, do better next time.very little in hi-sec is sandbox anyway. concord's tyrannical brownshirts always defeat the \"low status\" freedom fighters. fascist hi-sec mission runners and miners always dominate the peaceful npc peoples and asteroids. why should this be different?"
"if you choose to support the obvious bad guy destined to lose because that is your own fault not ccp.the thing you don't get is sansha kuvakei's idea is 1) fundamentally stupid, which is why nietzsche wrote a satire about it. 2) if kuvakei won and his vision came to fuition the game would end. 3) sansha sympathisers actually lost fair and square, the only way it was rigged was through their own poor judgement or ignorance. 4) despite that some sansha sympathisers did 'get it' and played along anyway.the people that don't get it, didn't really follow the story line, were chasing what they though would easy capital bpcs, whine and whinge, because they made the wrong choice.you cannot blame ccp for your own ignorance."
"i agree that hybrids are normally a bit on the weak side. but you forget something almost all gellente ships are good drone boats. ever see what 5 tech two orgers do for dps? might want to look at your fits and skills. the guns by them selfs arn't all gellente do...."
"okay, besides that fact that you're missing the op's point of his post, i don't know if you're serious when you said that, but only 4 ships of the gallente line-up (domi, ishtar, myrm, and vexor) have a bonus to drones. every other gally ship's drones are the same as any other race's drones fielded.let's take bss for example. most of them have at least 75mb for drones (3 ogres iis if you want), and many have more drone bandwidth than that. take a typhoon, for example, has 125mb (5x heavies which is the same as a mega, and more than a hype) and can use non-gimped guns or missiles.that means drone dps is comparable among all races on unbonused ships.you can't argue that hybrids are fine due to gally having drones because all races have drones. don't forget that caldari use hybrids as their main turret as well.incidentally, that's all somewhat beside the point as the op was merely using that unresolved topic as an example for the fact that there isn't enough feedback from the devs on what we write here."
"well actually this forum is for the community to communicate with the csm. i'm sure the devs read it on occasion, but csm is supposed to be prioritizing from the input to present to ccp. the ah is also a way to watch the csm to see if their presenting the communities agenda or their own."
"i think the problem lies here. and it lies with the representatives people voted for. we got some good ones and some bad ones, but overall it doesn't look like the vote accomplished all that much.if you haven't taken the time to consider several candidates, and if you don't know what it is that the csm does, then you should not vote. it's not hard to do. too many people think the csm makes changes; they do not. too many csm representatives even don't know what the csm does.for the love of all that's holy (and not the amarrian goddess), please research your candidate before you vote!!i know it's a little late now to say this, but maybe i can awaken a few people in time for next election."
"i think the assembly hall is problematic, because it implies a parlimentary system that can get results. the csm backlog has something like 210 upvoted issues on it. in theory, team bff is going to be going through these and focusing on them, which is good. however, the very structure of the assembly hall is something that causes disgust and anger towards the csm. it implies legislation. it implies that you can mash 'thumbs up' and something will happen - and then when it doesn't happen, or dies in the backlog after a csm upvote, the entire process loses legitimacy. as i said when i ran for office, the csm is a focus group. we have methods we're investigating to increase it's power and influence, but if you look at the assembly hall, you walk away with the impression that the csm can ram through game design changes, which it mostly cannot."
"quite simple realy...a skill que that you acces from your charictor selection page that works the same as your in game one, with 1 exceptionyou can place skills from all toons on that account on to it.when this que was inuse your carictor sheet que in game would show all skills in the account tree.the skills could be couler coded likeslot 1= blueslot 2= redslot 3= greencurrently training = greenthaughts?"
"i don't enjoy pointing the finger, but your figures are absolutely wrong. the noctis did indeed have a strong impact on ore prices (as did hulkageddon). but before the noctis was introduced, kernite was, by a significant margin, the top value highsec ore. pyroxeres was second, plagioclase was third, followed finally by your generic scordite and veldspar. omber was the least valuable ore. i have been watching ore prices pretty closely for almost as long as i have been playing this game.and your second point about miners moving to where the most valuable ores are to be had is the very problem. it causes them all to bunch up in amarr space because that is, always has been, and always will be where the most valuable ore is. many miners are confused by the numbers and get incorrect value estimates for ore, but many others do know how to calculate them correctly. it is those others who cluster in the few good mining systems that amarr space has to offer. it is a problem both for the miners who are forced to go mine in specific places even to get a halfway decent yield value; and it is a problem for the servers that have to handle these miners.-------------------------it is not at all similar to the sec fixing per-share price of stocks, not even from a physical sense as it would be more akin to god altering the natural resources of land in part of the world. and the reason ccp should do it is twofold: firstly the server load is inadequate due to miners clumping in one area, and ccp likes balancing server load, and this would be an easy way to do some server load balancing. secondly, as you said yourself, everyone should have a realistic shot at achieving something. the simple numbers are that miners in amarr space will typically make 30% to 60% more profit than miners anywhere else, unless pyroxeres is the highest selling ore, then players can get the same advantage in caldari space. but anyone mining in gallente or minmatar space is at a very substantial disadvantage. if it were minor, only 10%-20%, or if the fluctuation of ore prices actually caused the best mining regions to change from time to time, i would not have a problem with it. but this is simply not the case. unless this change is implemented, amarr space will forever be by far the best high security space in which to mine.=========================i'd like to add spodumain to this discussion. nobody mines it, nobody wants it. it is fundamentally undervalued because it yields 33% of the megacyte of arkonor, and nothing else in any significant amount. thus it will always be valued at less than a third of arkonor, which will usually put it near the value of veldspar.each refine of spodumain yields 700 tritanium, the most per-refine other than veldspar (1000). i suspect that ccp intended spodumain to give null-sec miners tritanium without forcing them to mine low-value ores. but due to its large volume, its tritanium yield is virtually insignificant. if the tritanium yield of spodumain were increased to 70,000 per refine, it would yield 58% as much tritanium as veldspar, and it would have significant value. not high, but significant."
"currently, super capital ships can be used for 'risk free' ganks.it is not uncommon for a supercarrier to log off with aggro and dissappear before anything but the largest of fleets can dispatch it.my proposal is this:super capital ships should never disappear from space. a ship that large should require the infrastructure of an empire to support it.add a new pos module for 'docking' supercapitals at a pos. this will keep them safe from bumping.this will force players to have said infrastructure to actually support these behemoths. it might also slow super capital proliferation, as people will actually have to support them logistically with fuel for the pos.this is a rough idea, but i think it has merit."
"do like the idea of:\"add a new pos module for 'docking' supercapitals at a pos. this will keep them safe from bumping\".i would say a form of locking clamp..."
"i do like the idea.i believe this will increase some risk to hot dropping.supported"
"cutting their base ehp and making slaves not affect supercaps is what we really need imo."
"where can i buy this, is it in stores yet?"
"this is a topic better suited to a petition than the forums."
"supported."
"how would a bonus system work for item exchange?"
"draw one! ramingo - wins one plex + 89,250,000 isk! depitaros - wins one plex + 89,250,000 iskdraw two! witchkingofangmar + 89,250,000 isk! tanith yarndemon + 89,250,000 iskshareholder draw!garalan - wins 6 plexsignature curator! saraell tellon was the only person to win a prize and have the right signature set. - one plexspace kitty! white ra -"
"uhm why didn't anyone won the signature prize ???"
"oh, you're razzor.shut the **** up."
"there i was, just the other day, reading various forums, when i came across a post bemoaning one \"razzor.\" \"oh my,\" i thought to myself while sipping my strawberry daiquiri, \"what could one man possibly do to inspire a post overflowing with such bile and hatred?\"evidently, the answer to the mystery is to post like you do."
"how many voters abstained?"
"going to reykjavik would be worth it purely to eat the flesh of an intelligent mammal as delicious as the minkie whale, forget all the booze and the blondes wearing basically nothing and the bars open until 6am on weekends"
"gonna have to agree to disagree on this one."
"+1 pos needs much lovezahn retmas"
"howabout a system in which players who lose ships more often have to pay more to insure their ship? that way high-sec pirates and careless players will be at a disadvantage with insurance, instead of how it is now where those who lose ships most gain the most from insurance."
"i love suicide ganks."
"^^^| | |folks, this is who you elected as csm chairman. i hope you're happy now."
"i'm going to go out on a limb and say that the majority of players that voted for mitts also love suicide ganking."
"if afk hauler alts were a more organised voting bloc, perhaps they'd have someome to represent their special interests."
"would support this if insurance is also voided for anyone murdering the innocent belt, dedspace, and mission dwelling npc people of new eden.also, on condition that the fascist concord mob enforcers are toned down so that the freedom loving forces that defend new eden from those raping her natural resources and terrorising the innocent npcs can realistically best concord in honorable combat."
"srsly why do you hate freedom?"
"1.0"
"that's not the point. the point is that mittens just likes to hear himself talk. he has no platform, and he's useless. he likes to talk big. in fact, when everyone else running was putting up posts in jita park speakers corner telling what they would do if elected, he had a big shpiel about the history of eve and his own biased views on how things work.this is who you voted for people. this is your beloved mittens:\"i represent my voters, not random dudes with entitlement complexes who assume that 'the playerbase' means 'ignoring everyone who voted for candidates who they personally don't like'.\"\"im basically a walking talking posting hidden agenda, hth\"\"yo we want a pos mod onlining queue poses make me want to stab myself in the eye just thinking about them holy ****ok peace out im thinkin bout you, pos dudes, gonna pour out a 40 in your honor~\"\"going to reykjavik would be worth it purely to eat the flesh of an intelligent mammal as delicious as the minkie whale, forget all the booze and the blondes wearing basically nothing and the bars open until 6am on weekends\"\"what i learned from these stats is that i'm a baller\"\"death2allbob\"\"your suffering and incoherence pleases me. ~1700 votes for me came from gsf, the rest from the community as a whole\"more threads like this please, i require a constant supply of agony to maintain interest in this game~\"aside from his constant replying to topics with disinterest, rudeness, and an often-drunk appearance, he will periodically make statements either about obvious problems with the game and give no clear solution as to how to fix it, or he'll throw his own biased views around. he freely admits his own fallacies and even seems proud of them at times. and then in an arrogant fashion he will claim to have great underlying traits that, quite frankly, i don't see in him. he verbally attacks players whom he disagrees with, and would appear to spend more time coming up with clever insults than he does trying to contribute to the discussion. he flames intelligent posts right in the assembly hall. just look up any part of his posting history and see if you can find anything that doesn't match what i just said about him."
"yea"
"weekbump."
"supported for graphical change only. warp mechanic change is a waste of time. ccp has much more important stuff to do. being that they never do the important stuff, warp mechanics will never change any time soon."
"this post sums it up imoi think it should remain exactly the same, only once you warp, you instantly hit max speed instead of completely stopping then speeding up to max warp speed.i also think the same should happen at the other end. you instantly decelerate to whatever speed you were currently moving at (or 0? i know currently theres some \"drift\" as you come out of warp)edit: lul forgot to support"
"how about making it so that while your warp core is charged, your capacitor doesn't regenerate. that would prevent miners from warping off instantly. it may have negative effects of capital ships, though. i don't fly caps, so any input from cap pilots would be welcome."
"alternatively, i propose ccp patches in a mandatory ocd mental illness test so that those who are unable to deal with an unused skill sitting idle in their skill list can be referred to the proper mental care facilities and recieve the help they need."
"you seem to be assuming that current ocd treatment techniques simply work, and have no bad side effects. but ocd is not treated so simply as would be a papercut or the common cold. maybe oc isn't a disorder after all, and people who are intolerant of it are the real problem. in any case, anyone who simply cannot manage their own mind without external help are simply maladjusted for living in this world; but everyone else who manages to cope has an excuse to be a part of our communities. i don't see why we shouldn't take small, harmless steps toward improving the fun of some of the players. isn't that what the csm is trying to do, after all?"
"i also propose ccp adds options for confirmation boxes and contracts to disable such text as 'yes' and 'no' for those unable to resist always clicking one or the other. to make this a workable feature of course we may need to add ambigiously named checkboxes with neither positive or negative implications so that those in need of this feature are in fact able to use it.on a side note, i'd also like an option to make eve appear less wide-open so those suffering from rampant agoraphobia can safely become more immersed in the game.tl;dr by no means am i being serious, but accommodating insubstantial fringe cases quickly becomes ridiculous."
"i thought it wasnt just me that saw that part of fanfest! theres no vid on youtube with the presentation on server performance etc... cant remember what that actual presentation was called bt made me smile when i caught brian boss<U+FFFD>'s comment refering to this idea! yaaaaaaay!!!"
"this actually sound like a pretty cool solution. i mean, who doesn't like slow motion fight scenes."
"a while back i was in a fleet with lots of ships, most notably a lot of maelstroms. there was one nidhoggur nearby. i compared the nidhoggur from several angles to the maelstroms near it, and came to the conclusion that it was definitely no more than 25% longer. this went against the in-game tool which stated that its axis length was more than twice that of a maelstrom. but even the listed value isn't so big.-edit-i guess i have a picture to prove it. gotta love the print screen button.please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"boost all cap ship sizes. the current situation is kind of silly. given the attention to scale given to most other aspects of the game, i really don't understand how this (a) was implemented in it's current state and (b) stayed this way for so long."
"yea, when a maul, pull up to my carrier, it looks way to big to dock. lol"
"i have recently posted this in features and ideas section, figured i would propose this in a more clear and concise and less cynical manner. also, i need to mention i am not a miner and havent mined in maybe a year? (excluding gas mining in whs).the issue with macro miners right now is that making a program is very easy using click bots. these macro miners can sit in a few fields every day mining them and making it cheaper for materials as those who only mine legitimately.the big change: keep the same amount of asteroid belts we currently have accessible through the overview, however change the amount of asteroids and the amount of materials inside of asteroids to a much lower amount.---- example: bring asteroid count in each field down to 20% of current asteroids. lower the amount of material in the asteroid down 60%.---- reason: this will limit the amount of asteroids available for strictly botters and they would have to move systems often and cant occupy a single system 23 hours a day within a few belts. keeping warp to asteroid belts should still be around only because newer players on day one and two are confused enough about where to go to mine. through the rookie chat they can be directed towards the exploration agent for reasons explained below if they need more asteroids.big change part 2: increase gravimetric sites in a system to compensate for lost asteroids. that 80% of materials that has been taken from the asteroid belts would instead be 'spawned' in many (daily) randomly placed gravimetric sites.---- reason: miners will now have to scan down grav sites in their system of choice with whatever scanning ship they own, bookmark the locations, then bring their mining ship to clear the roids there. this does add a few minutes to thier normal routine, but keeps it as the passive event they seem to enjoy doing. macro bots will require someone to scan down and bookmark the very many gravimetric sites in order to add these bookmarks daily to their macro mining bots resulting in more legitimate miners having access to rocks.big change part 2.5: im sure many people will say a macro artist will just scan down, bookmark, and transfer bookmarks to his macro bots early in the day after downtime and do the same thing hes always been doing. this can be stopped by having intervals (either at fixed or variable times) where the other gravimetric sites will spawn in their random locations.---- reason: i thought it was pretty clear that now macro miners will have to check in on their bots throughout the day and updating their macro fleets with bookmarks for new sites to continue mining. players (of all time zones) will find good pockets of roids to mine out without worrying about macros eating them up (or eating the good rocks).big change part 3: overview roid belts will have much more veldspar and much less more profitable roids in them. noobie miners will be happy with their veldspar profit for the first few days before finding out how to scan. macro miners will now only be affecting the tritanium markets with vigor and will be affecting the other mineral's markets much less.a few things will benefit from this:1. miners dont need to actively play mini games and keep their mostly passive methods of mining.2. macro miners will have a much more difficult time and will find their illegal method of mining is much more involved now and for people who just use the free macros that use mouse click memory will no longer have working or viable bots.3. exploration career agents will actually be used.4. macro miners will flood the market with less material thus spawning an increase to their profits from the small amounts (comparative to macro miners amounts) of material they do sell on a daily basis.continued on next post:"
"5. scanning down grav sites for a human is not very difficult and will not take a miner much time to bookmark a few sites to hit up during the time they usually spend mining meaning the time spent spent scanning will not cut into their mining times much especially considering the materials they do mine will be worth much more.the real issue is that there is no real way to combat botting. but ways to make botting much less effective without fundamentally changing the entirety of the situation the bots are meant to profit off of is the key to bringing balance back to miners.i do not like mining and find it very boring - and i enjoy the cheap prices of my ships made by macro miners who flood the market with materials for people to produce the ships i eventually get blown up - but i think that even because of my reasoning for why i dont care about macro miners the people who are being affected by an illegal method should have a voice as well."
"i think you have a really good idea to halt macro miners in their tracks. it would have to be implemented with care, however, maybe even in multiple \"steps\", in which the regular belts were thinned a bit and the grav sites increased a bit. the reason i say this is because the economy at current is used to getting its minerals mostly from bot miners. making the change all at once, i fear, would be too successful, and ship prices would skyrocket until people got used to mining more.also, the ship mineral costs are based on the current influx of minerals, and might need to be reduced a bit; though i would leave that up to ccp to decide.-edit-here's an idea for mineral distribution by sec status:1.0-0.9 belts: veldspar1.0-0.9 gravs: veldspar and scordite, with the occasional plagioclase or pyroxeres0.8-0.7 belts: veldspar and scordite0.8-0.7 gravs: veldspar, scordite, plagioclase, omber, pyroxeres0.6-0.5 belts: veldspar and scordite with the occasional plagioclase, pyroxeres, and/or omber0.6-0.5 gravs: all highsec ores plus kernite or jaspetlowsec:0.4-0.3 belts: +plagioclase, pyroxeres, omber0.4-0.3 gravs: +hemorphite or hedbergite0.2-0.1 belts: +kernite and the occasional jaspet0.2-0.1 gravs: +gneiss and dark ochre???i placed omber in the low-end belts both because the market needs a balance to keep mexallon prices from crashing, and because it has a low yield anyway. the low yield is also why i put it in the mid-range grav sites.my reasons for the stepping ore availability are:1.) so that any remaining bots mine a little bit of variety just to keep market mineral prices down to some semblance of reality2.) so that newbie miners will actually get something for the veldspar they mine3.) so that newbie miners who haven't learned about exploration yet will still see that security status makes a difference in ore availability."
"i think margin trading can be fixed. simply do not allow characters with a negative balance to make purchases or create buy orders, and also don't allow those characters to be biomassed. if someone wants to get rid of a toon with a negative balance and start over, they have to make a new account and pay the $5 activation fee. this is in addition to having to train the market skills again in order to be able to make a lot of buy orders and train the margin trading skill. if it is still getting abused at that point, and i mean above and beyond being a minor issue, then simply raise the skill requirements needed to train the skill.those who currently have the skill can keep it, since that won't affect players who make new accounts and re-train new trade toons. but you can't continue training the margin trading skill until you finish its prerequisites, because people could have inactive toons with the skill just started, waiting to be activated.most of this stuff is probably either already implemented or just standard procedure for this sort of thing anyway. but there it is, i said it; the way to fix margin trading. it might not be exactly like that, or maybe it's a bit more complicated. but i think that's the gist of it."
"this would be awesome. with two disposable characters and a modicum of common sense everyone could use the obvious exploit to create an arbitary large sum of isk.~get coding csms!~"
"lolthe game does not allow you this exploit. go try it if u dont believe me."
"+1i guess this guy from atlasfail, err atlasdot.fail err whatever, can't do math, or just needs to rage-quit."
"i agree that the goonswarm federation is a problem for the csm, but i think the problem lies in human nature. while having an electoral college sounds good in theory, in practice it fails due to the overwhelming ineptitude of the masses under it to elect reasonable delegates at any level, let alone at the foundation where it matters most. how do you fix it? sad to say, i think the only way is to keep educating people while implementing changes wherever you can that force them out of their secure little bubble of complacency.i don't expect the problem to go away for millions of years, simply because i think it lies at the heart of our species and will require some serious mental evolution before it is fixed.until then, we deal with it as best we can. i support the idea of the electoral college. does that mean i support this thread? i think so but i'm not sure. i'll thumb it up anyway."
"do you really expect people to vote on this and have it win? he won with the most votes... do the math. people wanted him so they voted for him. it wasn't just the goons that voted for him.and to vote him out just because he is a goon? all you would need to do is change goon to a race and you are a racist. i imagine people voted for him because he has a lot of experience with null sec politics. and personally i am looking forward in seeing what he does. on the flip side mr. atlas... do you think anyone would want to vote for atlas? if memory serves me correctly, when the old atlas got invaded... they took it up the rear and they surrendered some titans and super carriers, a very large amount of isk, their space and their name. what did they get out of it? nothing useful it seems. better off making a run for it and suicide the super caps and get default insurance payout and reform later. and one vote per alliance? really? let's not drink and post random crap cuz it seemed like a cool idea at the time next time, mmmkay? thhhhaaannnks."
"your suffering and incoherence pleases me. ~1700 votes for me came from gsf, the rest from the community as a wholemore threads like this please, i require a constant supply of agony to maintain interest in this game~"
"there is a lot of stupid in this post, but in particular, you do realise that the mittani got more votes than there are goons despite half the goon votes presumably going to vile rat? he also received more votes than anyone ever in the history of csm elections. he is literally the sun king of eve.jesus christ, stop posting.edit: actually i support this idea, people in npc corps do not deserve representation!"
"ah yes, the typical whine i hear often when an idiot is describing people who vote for the \"other\" political party."
"was wondering if you were gonna show up to this hilarious thread"
"don't you want to wait to see how he performs before complaining?mittani got elected because lots of people voted for him, that's democracy for you.there's a lot more people who haven't voted and goons only account for a relatively small subset of the total playerbase, so we'll see what the future brings.and it's true that it's harder for smaller alliances (or member of no alliances, as i was when i got elected the first 2 times) to get in, but it's possible."
"do you really believe, that if mittens wanted to actually, and completely destroy the game (whatever that means) that ccp would allow it?you sir, have won the fool award, and (i'm guessing) are in the running for a darwin award...sick ******! :p"
"fight the power!"
"currently if you have aggression you have to wait one minute to be able to dock or jump through a gate. this is working as intended.what is not working is the bug of swapping immediately to another ship from a ship maintenance bay from an orca.a growing cancer in high sec is thieves stealing from wrecks presenting themselves as a target. this is fine as the pilot can see what they will be shooting you with if you attack them. that is until they bring in the ****ing orca alt.with this ship, and due to being able to hot swap to a completely ****ing different ship mid fight, they get the immediate upper hand with ease. oh and god forbid you actually be able to take out their new ship because before that goes down, they just dock it back in the orca for yet another ****ing ship. start to take out that ship too and you guessed it, they put that one back in the orca. most likely for a shuttle to easily escape. the entire time your being bumped by the orca who you can't shoot and unable to warp out because of the bumping.how is this ****ing balanced?! the thief risks nothing and you risk everything. i propose a 1 minute aggression timer to keep people from swapping to a new ship.edit: removed my signature maroon color to not cause so much butt hurt."
"i disagree with transferring aggression to the orca, but i agree with a 1-minute timer on docking into a ship maintenance bay. i think ccp wanted to put that in and forgot about it.p.s. what is this \"tue\" you keep mentioning?"
"i took out the aggression transfer. the \"tue\" was stupid text prediction on my phone."
"please take the red out of your post so it can actually be read. i can't mock it if i can't read it."
"it is my style of writing. if you don't like it then gtfo of my thread."
"i would like to thank suddenly ninjas, honorless internet jerks, and other hisec griefers for making umad, bro.also, every time that guy switches ships, he loses lock. warp away?"
"why didn't i think about that? oh yeah... because the orca is constantly bumping you ****ing idiot! you can't warp away!"
"rt:dr"
"i agree with the guy above me. this change only really hurts the smaller alliances where sov grinding is long and tedious. nullsec is stagnant and lathergic bc of the broken sov mechanics. no small alliance will want to move into crappy nullsec and not make isk, especially with the bills that the new sov mechanics have. a few big alliances will take the new \"good\" space, kicking out the smaller ones and life will go back to the way it was. as for the land of blues in nullsec, if you're small you have to have as many allies as possible if you want to even have a chance to resist the large alliances sc fleet."
"lets nerf something that does not need nerfing, typical failboat deving by ccp"
"clearly its the optimum time to start buying those mining upgrades and suck dem roids up"
"my major issue with this is that the dominion fiasco was supposed to be balanced out by allowing each system to accommodate more players than it could previously.pre-dominion a good ratting system could support only a handful of belt ratters.dominion was supposed to fix that because :zomg: everyone can run anoms. but actually, even with all the upgrades, systems can only support 2 or 3 extra guys in the havens and sanctums.putting the breakeven at 0.5-0.8 reinforces that limitation.if you want more entities to be able to break in to the end game, you needed a much lower breakeven threshold so that individual systems can support more activity."
"so while everyone is going to go to the better space and fight over it, does this mean i can take your crappy space and farm your 5/10 and 6/10 and 7/10?"
"the level 5 versions aren't bad, from what i've seen it probably spawns about one extra sig per day. the problem is that it requires some pretty constant ratting to keep level 5 military in a system, so to keep a level 5 entrapment array online in a ****ty truesec system you will have to run low-value anoms constantly.once the system drops below level 5 military index, the corresponding military upgrades go offline and are useless until you bring it up again. as a side note, i am not sure the entrapment arrays under level 5 do anything, we have a system that we only got around to upgrading to the 4th a few months ago and i've never seen a military sig in it."
"this is to remind everyone that is not a nerf sc post. my only intention is to get pos's relooked with the current change in game mechanics and tactics. as it stands, the hours it takes to online and set up a pos is not worth the fail it has in defending itself or the tcu anchored on it."
"oh yes. that's very representative, of the way i type. quit being a troll, you idiot; as anyone can see, you are f'ing it up badly.i'll admit, it's harder to edit my own typing, than someone elses; but, it's mostly correct, and perfectly readable.simple rules: the comma is a break in a sentence, similar to a pause; and, a semi-colon, is a division, (between two halves), of the same sentence. you can also use comma's, to introduce a silent, supporting idea, as above; and, to create a list, of up to 3 independent examples.john, jake, and mary; went to the prom.run spot, run."
"i was just going over the many threads on how \"broken\" dreads are and i had an idea on how to restore some balance.my idea is this:i think that if ccp gave dreads a +1 high utility slot had a 150% bonus to heavy(large)energy vampire and heavy(large)energy neutralizer drain amount and range when in siege mode. based upon the math this would give the energy vampire a transfer amount of 525 and the heavy(large)energy neutralizer would have 1500. with a range of 63kmalso bring the siege cycle timer down from 10min to 5min to put it more inline with the triage cycle timer. this ould reduse the need to \"commit\" dreads to the battlefield.give them a 5% tracking bonous per lvl. which will alow them to hit things easer. and allowing them to lock 2x more targets (total of 4) when in siege mode will make there heavy(large)energy vampire and heavy(large)energy neutralizer more effective. these changes would make the would make them (dreads)more effective in killing other capital ships and give them more use on the battlefield other then pos bashing. --this is my final version and no more revisions will be added--"
"this is a strange and random suggestion and while i don't really have any idea one way or the other... it sounds interesting.you have however either done your math wrong, or stated yourself incorrectly (150% increase per level?)."
"this is about the only dread fix, i would support. it's a relatively good idea, and can help with making dreads useful for more than just pos/sov bashing; despite, that being their only real intended purpose. ..super cap's and titans too, i suppose; as it's reasonable to expect, they can apply dps vs. one, or both.make it just neut's, as the nos benefits the dread's cap."
"ya, i made a mistake it was ment to be a flat non accumulative bonous. i have since corected this in the op"
"fix them.edit:this thread is more about (re)raising awareness of how bad blops arei dont care if you support it or not, but god damnit ccp, this ****s been on the agenda long enough, it cant possibly be so hard to change a ship around a bit can it (read: fix it properly, not some crappy half-fix that lets you get away with shoving it to the back of the line)?"
"good topictoo bad no content."
"its not my job to come up with ideas on how to fix ****, that's ccp's jobeveryone knows that black ops are ****, so my proposal stands, fix them."
"well, it's certainly not a fitting problem; as they seem, mostly, to have decent dps/tank capability. they also don't have a targeting delay, after cloaking; and, they have sizeable drone bays.here's what i see, as broken: evelopedia lists them as having 5000s reactivation delay for cloaking? eft doesn't represent this.they can't use covert op's cloaks; requiring a velocity modifier when cloaked? - this starts out, on the pathetic side; and moves to the rediculous. it's also a nonsense mechanic. just remove the effect of velocity, from the cloak; so the ship velocity, is per pilot skill.2 ly jump range? - that's pretty limited. make it 3. the rest can be handled in a full rebalance; if it ever happens."
"cassus temon doesn't know how to fit a ship i think. both the tank and dps on all the blackops are greatly inferior to their t1 counterparts when comparably fit. this is due to a significant reduction in their base hp, lack of a significant t2 resist bonus, loss of the third rig slot (all t2 is like that of course) and loss of turret/missile hardpoints. that said, i agree this thread lacks content. the purpose of assembly hall is create proposed changes, \"fix them\" is not a proposal."
"black ops really need a boost, come on csm guyz ! edit: the blackops boost was in only one candidat's program and he wasn't elected :/o7"
"tbh, black ops don't need a boost. stupid people just need to learn how to fly them properly"
"they really could use a bit of extra jump/bridge range, as well as bigger fuel bays."
"the black op's isn't supposed to have better dps/tank, than it's t1 counterpart. it already has cloak, higher agility and velocity; and can decloak, and immediately lock up a target. it also has better scan res, than a t1.for reference, the widow can get an 8s align time, 73k shield tank, and 33 points of ecm; while being cap stable, and having the ability to dish out 809 dps with t2 torp's. there's nothing really wrong with that; aside from it requiring all level 5 skills.and the 2 ly max jump. that will get you past most gate camp's; but not much more. i'm not certain it's intended too."
"33 points of ecm you say? clearly this man knows how ecm worksas for targetting delay after cloaking, when are you seriously gonna be on grid before your target? being unable to warp cloak means you're gonna be either warping to your target like a chump, or jumping to your target because someone else has already tackled/lit a cov ops cyno ontop of them, so that point is mootthe only redeeming factor about blackops imo is the fact that with blops v and a dread guristas cloak you can align out in ~3s (but lol blops v, thats quite the investment)id like to see some more utility on the blops. as it stands, its something of a miniature capital for covert ops. why not give it a small ship maintainence array/fitting service that can only be used by cov ops/stealth bombers/force recons or something? maybe let it store a stealth bomber or two? makes it more like a covert ops mini capital.also give it extra jump range per level or something, 4.5ly barely gets you anywhere (you really should be flying this with jdc v)theres really no reason to combat fit a black ops, if you can fly one, you can probably fly a carrier (or are close to one) which are more effective for hotdropping any day of the week. honestly, barring the redeemer, combat hotdropping a blops is dumb"
"shoop da whoop"
"been done."
"i've long since thought a t2 shuttle would be a nice idea, but not with weapons. just give it some improved stats, 1 low, and one medium slot."
"quite a good idea, supported"
"sounds like a good idea. in any games i have played i never have or will sell my accounts/characters.(how do i put the thumbs up"
"/me signs"
"everyone knows that war declarations need to be nerfed. it gives too much control to the dec'ing corp, allowing them to dictate the terms and engagements while leaving the dec'd at their mercy (okay, maybe not as dramatic as that, but whatever). one man can disrupt an entire corp/alliance for a week by dec'ing them.for those that mine/mission/courier or otherwise carebear and make money, war decs can be annoying, but confrontations can be avoided if you're smart about it (watching local, staying aligned, etc). basically, you can still do what you want to do as long as your cautious.this is not true for incursions. since incursions heavily rely on remote repping, and rr'ing someone at war puts the repper at risk, many (read: all) incursion fleets refuse to take on somebody who is at war. this is an area of the game that is effectively cut out simply because of a war dec.so i propose that war decs be nullified in incursion constellations (and those constellations only). this makes sense for the lore also: i believe that the sheer threat of the sansha incursions overshadow any petty differences between corps. capsuleers migrate to the incursion constellations to unite as one and fight back the incursions, not to settle scores between themselves. as soon as the incursion is over, the war dec is re-enabled.thoughts? suggestions? flames?"
"personally i think concord's fascist mob enforcers should be disabled altogether in incursion space. reduce sec status to 0.4 in all incursion systems.then war decs wouldn't matter in the slightest."
"definitely support, although i can feel for the potential for abuse.allowing transfer through chat/mail would change the dynamic of tracking targets, but is much more logical.(edit, read above and changed so as restate rather than remaking points already made)."
"i like the idea to attach rigs to subsystems instead of to the t3 itself. in fact i think certain subsystems should come with rig slots and each individual subsystem could have all its rigs, modules, and other settings saved when it's removed from the ship and sits in the hangar. seems like common sense to me.as for removing rigs: i wouldn't mind having them pay out a small amount of salvage when you do remove them. i think of it less as keeping the money you spent and more as an aesthetic improvement. on that note, i think that implants in frozen corpses should be removable to be kept as broken versions of the originals. they'd have no practical use but would serve as trophies, and might also add a new avenue to griefing, as some pilots who die a lot may get a history for having or for not having expensive implants. i always support changes that benefit the smarter folk most."
"no. they are implants for ships, it's an added cost for improved performance. and like was said before, if you do that, it becomes another module slot. no skill or item should be used to \"take out\" said rigs otherwise people would use t2 rigs without any worry of losing the money for the rigs."
"i'm not one of the many players constantly trying to back this argument; i wouldn't even use hybrids if they were balanced. but it has become painfully clear to me from both the forums and in-game that fixing or rebalancing hybrids is by and large one of the hottest topics everyone is debating and complaining about. and there's not all that much debate; the topic has multitudes of supporters and comparatively few opposers. i myself started out using hybrids, and i thought that making weapons hit and do damage was remarkably difficult in this game. but as soon as i switched to other weapons, i found i could almost ignore the technical aspects of their mechanics and just shoot targets. short range weapons hit close targets and long range weapons hit distant targets. only hybrids are difficult, cumbersome, and usually not very effective.so i am asking the csm, on behalf of everyone i know (or have only just met) that likes hybrids so much, that you please recognize that this is a profoundly popular issue and submit it as priority."
"redundant thread is redundant. =/"
"it isn't redundant, he doesn't just want hybrids buffed, he wants them buffed as a ~priority~ you see."
"i made this post not because of how much i or anyone else wants hybrids to be fixed, but because the uproar about it has reached some pretty high levels and it would seem to be long past time to submit it as priority. i'm actually surprised it wasn't submitted as priority last time around.and once again, this isn't based on my views. i don't even like hybrids on principle. but i support a game in which everything works properly and is balanced, and weapons are first and foremost in this game just as they are in pretty much anything else made by human men."
"well yes really you're just thinking of the children.down with this sort of thing.careful now."
"well, having been based on a/c carriers, (ie the uss constilation, \"before it was taken out of service\").i believe any ship that can house droans should be able to repair them internally. simple logic really. that's just the way it is in the real thing.but i agree. carriers, super carriers, and titans, should not only be able to repair there drones, but virtually anything that can fit in there docking bay. once again, this is just the way it is in real life, seems simple really. i personally, honestly believe if the ccp dev's. thought about it, they would almost all agree. i actually do have faith in the dev's. they have done brilliant work in creating this game, and i'm certian they would be on board with this. being a dev. of sorts of other things, i gotta tell ya were a pretty open mind bunch of blokes, we really like new ideas, and i think this one would be a good one.in my opinion, you know how opinons are, lol. it's not the dev's. but who the dev's have to answer too. i.e., the gm's, managers, and marketing people.ccp is struggling to just keep up here, \"really\". the new code, changes in the code, time to impliment the changes, debug the changes, really get's there heads spinning. i honestly believe there just snowed under. add to that the new special advertised changes, like dust, etc. there simply maxed out, and will be for some time to come. in otherwords, don't expect anything like this anytime soon.really ****en great idea though, and supported."
"like a cross between a pos and a ship. while it can't fly like a normal ship, its corporation can move it around somewhat freely by paying fuel costs for entering warp or jumping systems. players can dock into its ship storage units (if you put any on it) and ride with it wherever it goes, bringing all their stuff along in the ship's cargo modules (once again if you put any on it). its equipment would be similar to pos modules, in fact it might even be able to use the same modules. it shouldn't use quite the same weapons and shielding system that poss use, for that would allow players to use it as a ganking platform. it should be balanced to be used primarily as a mobile base of operations for rich corporations, or potentially as a supercapital in large fleet fights (though its tremendous power comes at the cost of putting everything inside it in danger!).perhaps it could be put in \"stationary mode\" in which its shield acts like that of a pos, and goes into reinforced mode when its hit points are depleted or however that works. i've never actually seen a pos get sieged. but then if you put it in \"mobile mode\", you have to unanchor it for, say, an hour till you can move it. during that time and while it's in mobile mode, its shields and armor would function like a ship, and it can be destroyed as a single unit. if destroyed, all of its bays would be dumped into space unlocked and unanchored. players in them could still undock. if those bays are then destroyed, the players in them and their ships and cargo are dumped into space. the players and piloted ships would fade from view in 15 minutes, while the cargo and unpiloted ships would actually disappear in 2 hours if not picked up.once you get the pos back to its new location, you have to anchor it, which takes another hour. during the time it's being anchored, it is vulnerable as its defenses act like a ship until anchoring finishes.i know it won't happen any time soon, but i'm a big fan of the idea and i always like to hear support and feedback."
"i don't see the point in this. could you clarify the reasoning in having this? the docking part is too much tbh compared to an outpost. as it takes a lot of materials, time and risk putting up an outpost so you can dock. having basically a dockable rorqual seems like you could get a lot of people docked in this mobile outpost, then move to enemy space and let everyone undock, like the trojan horse. you should state what the purpose of the role of this ship would be, because saying you just want a mobile pos tells me you can't be arsed to set up a pos and want to squat in a system before they come for you. now if this was used in some kind of siege staging where it could only be used briefly while starting an attack on a system, that might hold more potential, but doubt even that would be needed."
"i don't want one, personally. at least i certainly don't want to be in charge of paying its maintenance bills, let alone pay for the hull. there are two reasons i want to see it implemented:1.) because regular \"large\" poss are run-of-the-mill these days, and even titans and supercarriers are fairly common. i think at current isk generation rates, some people have room for an even larger isk sink. it would also make for some interesting news articles about what goes on in-game. you know, nobody cares to hear about so-and-so lost the biggest and most expensive thing in the game when there's over a hundred of them around and people lose them every week. the way i see it, in a game like this, the most expensive item should be above the budget of most nullsec alliances, and only the top few should be able to afford it.2.) linkage:"
"disagree on the supercaps being a distinct, warpable beacon -- that's too unbalancing of a game mechanic. but i would support adding a supercap activity overlay to the map."
"it's long time we bring back the 10.0 security status but with one stipulation not everyone can get it.break down0.5-1.0 space - can only gain up to 5.0 security status.-- this can be done my missions and high sec complexes0.1-0.4 space - can only gaine up to 7.5 security status-- faction belt rats or ded complexes0.0 - -1.0 space - can get up to 10.0-- faction rats or ded complxes"
"quote:if people were allowed to keep the \"deposit\" money using the character bazaar to launder isk would be extremely easy. i don't buy it. that is too public for isk sellers.isn't it easyer to buy/sell isk by jita scam mate? and i dont see ccp saying anything about it exept that they are not getting involved in player relations.for example: buy my fully fitted and t2 rigged machariel! (a shuttle with unfitted civilian mining laser inside) for 2 bil.buyer set it, seller picks it up and tada! isk is sold. who is looking into that?btw i also see my issue as ccp involving in player relations tbh."
"add a line to your character sale\"no deposits. any unsolicited deposits sent before final sale is agreed will be treated as donations.\""
"exactly. ~narrative causality~. you can't reasonably support the existence of concord and simultaneously ***** about this."
"thank you mitanni for actually replying and giving an answer for me bc i can tell you that i do get angry at reading some of these post and think, surely 2000 people replying on a topic would mean something would get done. this clears things up a bit and i hope it helps settle down some of the forum trolls :p"
"it is true that most of this stuff never gets changed. there's a lot of player input toward changes but ccp is far too busy to implement it all, no to mention how much work these issues alone would require to implement.the csm points ccp to the hottest topics, and ccp decides whether or not to fix it. but having lots and lots of support really makes a difference. that way, ccp doesn't only agree that there is a problem, but most importantly that it matters a lot to the players.changes do happen which are aided very much by this forum and the csm. to name a recent change that originated here; rockets had their damage increased. i'm sure there are plenty of others, but i don't know them off the top of my head."
"i'm not sure what you're proposing. are you suggesting that an account should be able to maintain a skill queue and set of sp that all characters on said account can access?"
"basically he sais that if you want to train 3 characters on the same account you can put skills from all 3 characters in 1 queue basically not breaking the \"1 character training per account\" and still training all 3 sorta"
"the relative value you are referring to are based on the unit price of each ore. the relative value i was referring to are based on the refined value per cubic metre. kernite had a large value per cubic metre too, but only in relatively small quantities. attempting to sell millions of units of kernite would end up flooding the market in the few systems i experimented in.i'll leave it to ccp to determine if miners moving to the more valuable space is a problem or not."
"i was actually referring to the refined mineral sell value in large quantities based on original ore volume. if you are going by unrefined ore prices, then your figures are inaccurate since they mostly reflect what local refiners are buying from miners who have inadequate refining skills, and those local buyers fluctuate from time to time as well as vary by region. if you calculated by unrefined volume versus refined sell value as i did, and your figures still do not concur with mine, then you need to recheck your figures. i have checked mine many times.here is a website that you might find helpful:"
"while this pos module allows the storage of super capitals, it requires that a pilot ejects from it first.the module i am suggesting would allow a pilot to 'dock' the ship while still piloting it. this would be to offset the main suggestion that super capitals never disappear from space.edit: supporting my own idea ;)"
"i think all capitals should take extra time to disappear from space, like an hour perhaps. people should not be fielding capital ships frivolously, end of story.i also agree that supercapitals should never disappear from space. there is a reason you can't dock them, that is because they themselves are a mobile station. as such, the player who owns said station and their corporation should be in charge of keeping it safe at all times."
"i just noticed the error now, saraell tellon was the only person to win a prize that had the signature set.she is owed all 6 plex as no-one else shared that prize. sadly i gave them away already... time to sell some ships :|thanks for pointing it out, i've just talked to her and we're figuring something out now."
"indeed, sip told me of how my hard-earned plex was given away, but i now have two delicious plex sitting in my hangar"
"congrats to the winners :d"
"thx .. sip"
"~devswarm federation~"
"what i learned from these stats is that i'm a baller"
"new quen quote:\"for the fifth quarter in a row, electronic attack ships were the least flown ship group. the growthin the number of titans being flown had led to them surpassing the number of black ops, with 472titans and 449 black ops being piloted.\""
"how can you be mad at a man with a cute puppy?"
"your posts aren't intelligent so i guess that means i'm not going to be flaming them~"
"i support a cooler animation for warping other then the current 'ship slides here', but i dont agree with much of the other changes put forth.edit: while were at it, bring back the last pod we had with the crazy random 3 firing thrusters that looked like something you really were unsure about making it back to saftey."
"two years, ccp. two. damn. years.sort your crap out. this is pathetic. give us the old cyno back."
"i want to ride the lightning like the old days."
"omg - please do this ccp. the current is extremely gay."
"is that the cyno i saw in clear skies when haffer was playing with his widow? i'm new enough i didnt ever see one of those ingame, so i wondered what it was.much cooler than the current bubble popping"
"needs doing."
"bad idea, this would have too many negative side effects. having logi flagged for repping on a gate or cap transfering each other would make the ships alot less useful in real war. (null)get a falcon alt, or find a friend with a scorpion.falcon > guardian"
"highsec neutral support no-aggro docking games is just silly.granted, when i fly logi in a gang i most certainly do hug the gate and jump through once i start taking fire. because i can. i don't approve of this game mechanic, but i'm certainly not going to stay on field and lose the hull on principle."
"pointless suggestion, there is a list of seriously important things that ccp need to be working on this doesn't come close to making it.important things worth spending time looking at"
"thank u for the useless banter. it seems this forum is full of \"useless\" things."
"time dilation is the holy grail enabling of epic fleet fights. this is about to get a ****load of attention."
"i've read much of this thread but it was difficult to find posts that added to the discussion. my main concern is like other have pointed out that this would give more time for reinforcements (which honestly isnt that bad of a thing in many cases as it works for both sides ...) but here my thought that may have been brought up before, so if it has just ignore me.the immediate area around the system should experience a similar effect. one or two jumps spidering from the system would be given the same notification and have similar 'bullet time' effects. this doesnt necessarily stop people from using caps to jump in but would slow down reinforcements using the traditional methods of coming in.also, would caps that jump fleets experience an additional wait time to jump in? say the system was decreased by a factor of half time. would the cap jumping in from a different system have to wait twice as long to jump?"
"as low of a priority as this is ... supported."
"supported"
"+1it's a change that really makes sense."
"so, from what i'm getting, the topic is soley about size, not about changing the stats, sig rad, or anything like that?if so, then make supercaps super.to op, your pic might have been necesary to make your point, but it still stretched the first page beyond the confines of my screen."
"supported, i remember my first cap fight where i compared my moros to the \"awesome\" nyx. the next toy in my lineup. wtf? i was sooo disapointed when i saw how tiny it was. the moros looked way more 'super' -make my super, well, er, super plz ccp."
"im not sure what the current sec to ore is but i can agree with what you put. and as for the gradual change - i didn't even think of mineral price crash of such an immediate action so that would be a good idea. if your a miner you would be better at gauging my idea and thinking of a practice course of action.my biggest concern with making this idea was, like you agreed, that newbs wouldnt know how to scan - and possibly scanning for ores would be a huge turn off for them as learning how to scan can be aneurysm inducing in the beginning. i think the industrial career track should definitely be revamped to discuss and explain the ore sec to ore type ratio as well to help get newbs out of 1.0 .for your sec breakdown your still inferring that certain ores should be in certain regions right?"
"i've always liked the approach of moving all asteroid belts to grav belts. ofc the bots will probably congregate to ice fields then..."
"very true. im not gonna touch the subject of the perma producing ice fields though ... not with a ten foot pole."
"it's possible to use also agents, with mission of mining. the gravi site it's also a very good idea. and why not to change at every downtime the place of the \"static belt\" a little. the bookmark can be used for 24h only, it's more difficult for bots no ?"
"even changing the overview accessible asteroid belts will still allow a macro bot to just warp to zero on asteroid belt and switch to an asteroid tab on the overview and mine whatevers closest. not sure how to circumvent that. with the asteroid belts available via oveview having so little in terms of ore i think that will be enough to put a damper on macro miners ability to flood the market with ore, especially the 'higher grade' high sec ones.i always thought with the advent of whs more cruisers (osprey for example) would be hanging out in whs spamming dscan for those abc ores. the fact is i spose miners prefer the relatively easy and safe low end ores in high sec to fit their passive playstyle.itd be nice if solar systems werent so static like they were anyhow. but thats another topic all together.------------i had a discussion with a friend of mine who used to be a pretty dedicated and determined miner and his main protest was that scanning down grav sites would turn off a lot of people from mining. i fail to see his reasoning for it as it should only take a few moments with a scanning ship (like the one u get for free from the career agent) would make mining challenging especially when miners will gain large increases to profit.do any miners here agree with that? would having to scan down a few belts prior to mining make your day too difficult? would you stop mining due to a need for scanning these sites down?"
"has possibilities"
"well mining in anoms protect you from gankers who can easiliy sacn you in belt...-1 !!!and even bots can mine in anoms too so no interest.there is a simple easy way to eradicate all bots :no more local."
"scan something down only to get some roids sounds rly.. nah, it doesn't sound like mining. passive playstyle. log in, dock off, fly to a belt and eat some friggin rocks. that's what mining is about, watch tv, do the dishes etc. pp. mining is great cause u have to pay no attention. (in highsec)u should keep that in mind.the only real way to fix this is to scan the ram for background programs. don't know why ccp is not using this. (theres this b- mmorpg using this technique too)"
"cpp could fix the bots problem in one day if it wanted to 1 run a db query on a accounts that are online for 20h to 23 hours day 7 days a week 2 filter out all but them that do nothing but rat and mine 23x7 3 you have your ban list"
"did you move here from f+d (fail and die?)good self motivation! i wish all the people who's ideas went well in f+d would repost here."
"im pretty sure you didnt read my posts then because i explained how anoms combat the way bots work.bots can be made to log in and out after a particular number of cycles, after a certain amount of time, etc. also, the bots click through buttons and asset windows and evemail to make it seem like more is going on on the account."
"while i like your idea (it isn't the stupid captcha one), it won't stop bots (it would for a few days while they get rewritten though).the current scanning bot reportedly takes 12 minutes to scan down a high sec grav site. not long enough that a small group of miners could clear the belt."
"bots can run l4s you idiot nothing you've posted here is more complex than a l4"
"i cant help but feel that getting rid of the macro miners will have a horrible fallout when mineral prices suddenly skyrocket due to a huge decrease in supplythis may not end up being the case, but we shall see"
"theres a courier mission bot, but i have not seen any level 4 combat related bots. theres also bots that rat, but everyone ive heard of seems to have trouble looting the proper items.the only bots i see (which are easy to make if you just download a free customizable mouse click memory program) are mining bots. the other bots are paid programs and their forums are filled with 'doesnt work' threads.as for the scanning bot ... what? what bot are you talking about? i cant even find information about one of these. do you know how advanced something would have to be to recognize all the displayed information to make a scanning bot? please cite your information.and it probably will. i can definitely see ships/modules prices getting much higher as less material is made available on the market. ccp i think would enjoy this as they have been talking about their monetary systems insane inflation as more and more isk is produced."
"not gonna cite it. would rather not be banned.theres also the wonderful market bots, which are quite aggravating."
"corina, those who make outrageous claims and then refuse to cite their sources fall under a certian category: troll. cite sources or that is what everyone will think."
"this isnt a topic about market bots. this is about mining bots. after much scouring i couldnt find any details about any eve online scanning bot, so unless you have some proof about this then your just trying to discredit my idea and hope people will jump on the bandwagon."
"unfortunately, any form of proof that i could post (links to sites selling them, or using one myself and recording it) would likely breach the eula and give me a ban.unless ccp comes into this thread and says otherwise, i'm not going to risk it.now i like your ideas. i really do. but overall and over time, it will have little effect on the macro miners (compared to ccp's current efforts, which seem to be working slowly). yes, it would stop the click bots (at least for a while), but not the ones that use direct client interfacing."
"and correcting what i should have done from the get go.support moving most roids to grav sites."
"ones that interface with the client can be discovered. the memory click bots cant be discovered as it uses a computer function that is necessary to how we all play the game (we click things).the reason this idea shines above others because it doesnt change gameplay much. it uses methods already inscribed in the game:--- the current click an sit mining method that miners do not want to change.--- scanning for grav sites, which is already in the game, however grav sites are low in quantity in most systems, this change increases the amount of them and contents of them.theres no need for invasive monitoring on ccps side (which they would have to have a team of people monitoring and investigating) and theres no need for 'captchas' or whatever they are called which is bothersome for the eve community as a whole and takes away from rp elements in the game.the only reason i would ever remotely agree to the use of captchas is to minimize system sitting cloakers, but since that is such a trivial issue as it is i still wouldnt give my backing to it.this is the quickest and most viable solution to the issue. even if it minimizes macroing to 75% of current bot miners who use the free memory click programs it would be a huge advantage to current miners."
"fof certainly need to be looked at again by ccp, that is certainly something we can all agree on."
"make it more specific, like a box for falcon, kitsune, scorpion, blackbird, griffin, ect."
"interesting that you went for a really specific option - i'd be happy to see a more generalised set of targeting options but i suspect that what you suggest would make it a little op. thanks for your support though!"
"i think you misunderstand the nature of \"static exploration site\". talk to a w-space inhabitant about how successful they are at bookmarking their \"static\" wormholes and warping to the bookmark anytime they want to find the static wormhole in the future.thus a static grav site would continually respawn in a particular system, constellation, or region (i.e.: site a might be a static system site, site b might be a static constellation site, etc). the respawn timer will control the maximum extraction per day. static grav sites will respawn at any time. current celestial belts are only repopulated during dt. switching from celestials to static exploration site will remove the need for dt in this small portion of the game."
"very nice, be nice to make mining more enjoyable, especially ice mining."
"i agree that dramiel should get a small nerf. in that case the anti-dramiel, daredevil, should probably get one too.i see some people play the risk vs reward card here, but i dont think they realise the market mechanics behind nerfs/buffs. if the dramiel gets the nerf the risk will be smaller = lower price.in other words: risk vs reward is fixed + frigate class is balanced.edit: i havent read all posts in case someone has already pointed this out."
"confirming dramiel pilots are the biggest ***gots in eve.eve has not known such ***gotry since before the falcon nerf.i love how fast they are, its cool to be able to break 10 km/s but the ship has too many other strengths. imo, dps nerf in the form of less drones."
"war decs are too cheap. up the isk required || add a cooldown period. it ruins game play experience."
"implement a debt mechanic to cover the shortfall.when in debt, you get an additional 1% tax on all taxable income - this goes to the debtor.this lasts until you choose to pay off the debt.you cannot delete or transfer your character with a debt.either that or hide unfulfilable orders, as suggested above.however:the scam used is a perfectly valid (and pretty clever) scam, all things considered, as the part that's a scam is the part where you buy something for a vastly inflated price - do your research and don't assume that the current one or two orders are valid. it's not difficult to spot and avoid if you understand the mechanics of trading. it can even be done without margin trading, it's just harder and riskier.edit: to be clear, i don't support the proposal - the skill is useful. nerf it, perhaps, but do not remove it."
"tell that to wall st......."
"not supported.if you get burned its your problem i'm afraid, that scam has been posted for months if not years and if you didn't know about it its just your bad luck. there are far more legitimate users of this skill than scammers."
"neutral..i don't care what they do...as long as...1) i get my skill points back to redistribute2) we all play by the same rules and changes are announced in advance3) the number of scammers goes down or change it back"
"i really like any idea that moves along the lines of \"stop filling my hanger with noob ships for me to trash\""
"i would say that instead of receiving one automatically every time you dock with no ships, you have to request one. make a button in station services or integrate it with something else."
"bump. why does the weapon system that is supposed to do the most damage over time (railguns) cap out and yet the supposed alpha kings (artilleries) can fire forever without bothering with cap usage?"
"the defining feature of rails is range. it therefore stands to reason that the gunship with the highest dps at 249 km, the lock range, should be a railboat. if it isn't a railboat, then something is self-evidently broken and changes are required."
"/signed"
"no, just no. you have another chance to cast your vote next year.you say that the csm has become nothing more than a platform for big alliances.last csm could be considered nothing but a platform for empire dwelling bears and lowsec pirates. no matter what they are, it was an open election."
"one vote per alliance and/or corporation?sounds a lot like \"only rich white landowners should be allowed to vote.\"also that wouldn't be corrupted in any way, shape, or form, no sir. *someone like entity spends 250b isk and gets enough temp one-month-alts to ensure himself free trips to iceland for two years*"
"mittens stands for freedom. do you all hate freedom or something?"
"you sound like you hate democracy. you're not a terrorist are you son"
"the goons who \"voted blindly for their representative\" pay as much to play this game as you do.mittens and the other 0.0 candidates ran because of dumb ideas that were floating around within csm5 and ccp that would severely and adversely affect player-run sovereignty holding entities like the one you belong to. remember when they nerfed deep safes? yeah.suggesting that an alliance with thousands of members who pay for their eve subscriptions has the same number of votes as some guy's 1-man alt corp is utterly ridiculous. then again, i can't say i expect intelligent ideas from a guy who belongs to a corporation with a dot in its name, which in turn belongs to an alliance with a dot in its name.definitely not supported."
"i completely agree! democracy is a failed experiment. too many of the wrong sort of people participating leads to the wrong sort of people being elected."
"i think the main problems with goons is they come into f&i or ah and just shut down ideas and proposals without ever reading them or even understanding whats going on. i think the collective knowledge of goons isn't high enough to make real decisions.just imho. hopefully this one can outshine the other imbeciles and show goons can do something with themselves other then be a complete and utter nuisance."
"maybe if your ideas weren't so terrible we wouldn't do this???"
"the goons beautifully illustrate the intention behind this game. why hate them."
"stop behaving like that:monkey fightand give the new csm at least a chance... as others already said. if you didn't want mittens to win you had to have more people voting for other candidates. and not only nc voted him. i voted for him after hearing the interview he did on the fly reckless podcast. seems like a reasonable guy if you don't judge him for being a goon only. deal with it! stop whining, it's still a game and not rl!"
"i did not vote blindly. i chose between vile rat and mittani."
"also, are you morons going to start grunting because you haven't seen mittani's birth certificate?"
"not quite."
"the mittani sucks, here here i second the notion."
"this gave me a good laugh. thanks :d"
"yeah...who wants lawyer with expert knowledge of the game representing the player base ...i mean.....lawyer?...representing ? and speaking for players ..perish the thought."
"while i like your enthusiasm for creativity, i'm not a huge fan of this idea for one reason.new modules would mean new skills to train. i'd rather not have yet another skill point sink, it took me 2 years to fill out the current combat tree of skills :).if anything though i would want an xl shield extender. as it stands armor plates are more forgiving with fitting than shield extenders. there is no equivalent to a 1600mm plate, meaning you have to use two midslots to get the same amount of buffer that an armor plate can do with 1 lowslot."
"but shields passive recharge, armor doesnt. but i get what your saying. an xl shield extender would have some crazy pg req, would be interesting to see a what drake pilots would change their fitting to to get it on there."
"supported - should not be able to repeatedly switch ships during combat to keep fresh ships in the fight.more than that, orca should get the aggression flag so it can be fired upon. you don't get to help in a fight without being attackable."
"i agree with shandirorcas and healers should all recieve aggression for aiding attackers"
"emo-rage fail post is fail post.make sure your post is legible if you ever hope to be treated with any amount of respect.can't solve everything in life with a red crayon.sad thing is i happen to agree with your complaint.but i'd rather it see it come from someone more respectable.not supporting."
"orca goes 75m/s.... here's an idea, don't shoot at salvage frigates unless you're willing to take the risk that you will die."
"despite the red text, supporting. terrible post but the op is still pointing at a significant issue.maybe link the crimal flag with the hull along with the pilot. orca is holding a criminal ship, well its complicit in the crime.if you were to shoot some guy on the street, and throw your gun in the gutter, its still relevant to the crime."
"if the orca can bump you so that you can't warp out, you need to find a game more suited to your abilities."
"i have to say i agree with the orca proposal.if you are engaged in combat - and flip out ships from the orca. the orca should be agro'd as well."
"anyone who supports any aggresive action should be flagged as a target.concord kills nuetral rr guys, so why can't we?"
"[orca, bumping]domination nanofiber structuredomination overdrive injectorrepublic fleet 100mn microwarpdrivecap recharger iicap recharger iicap recharger ii[empty high slot][empty high slot]skirmish warfare link - rapid deploymentlarge ancillary current router ilarge ancillary current router ilarge ancillary current router ithis orca goes 550 m/s when getting its skirmish bonuses and with snake set. faster than a battleship most of the time. you were saying?"
"awe, don't be like that. yes, it's an emo rage and it's in red crayon, but it's a very valid rage. you're supporting the idea here, not the player.this is a complete oversight on ccp's part, intentional or not. at least with rr, you can go after the rep ship. the orca is harboring a criminal ship and should get flagged. at the very least, prevent any kind of dock with a 60 sec timer... although that wouldn't make as much sense since the orca is player owned. getting flagged would be more appropriate as it's the players decision not an npc refusal due to aggression. flag the orca and then they can flip ships all they want.btw, i had some guys attempt this on me and my previous corp. fortunately i have lots of friends and they failed miserably, but they were able to both dock their ships and pod out. it's a plain cheap tactic that ccp needs to fix correctly.supported"
"bump to the top to reach the priority list."
"supported. killing pos is too easy for supercarriers"
"isnt csm just the group of people that listen to forum whine and present it to ccp (who also reads forum whine)?if anything it allows them to not pay someone to do what ccp peoples randomly surf around doing anyhow.i dont think csm will get us everything we ever wanted or dreamed of (as evidence of every other csm), or even much of what they want, but they report on what they presented and what ccp said they would be inclined to investigate.with csm we have had some things we've been expressing a want for - but ccp has their own agenda and that ultimately comes first.this was in no way meant to bash or endorse either csm, the fanbase, or ccp."
"have you ever tried to hit something moving full speed while in siege mode?the dread's problems are much more broad then this. cost for usefulness the dread is just not worth it. good suggestion but it's more like a band-aid what we need is a cure."
"makes the game more interesting.... some days i'll log onto eve and say i got terrible skill point placement and i just figured out what i should be doing. following that i will go into a two month period where i refuse to log on because i'm terrible.maybe have a clone with (x) amount of sp not placed/or maybe per character you have one reset/or have the memory attribute penalized and have a new sheet of sp to work withisk/money/whatever/ for a skillpoint reset"
"i have millions of sp in industry that i will never, ever, ever use again but i don't support this. i made a choice (which was right at the time) when i trained them and now i live with that choice."
"what you actually want is to have all-skills-at-v. in short, you want the entire skill training system removed. er, good luck with that idea."
"i know someone who can reset your sp for you.meet him in low/nullsec in your pod with an unupgraded clone.he won't even charge for the service!"
"lol,someone who doesnt know what getting podded in an alpha clone actually doesthis thread is dumb"
"i do not support. i have tons of skills i wish i never wasted time with (many of my hybrid skills for instance) and despite loving the idea of reinserting those into projectiles and switching up to minmatar ships you just cant do something like this.it breaks the balance of the game. any amount of resets over 0 is wrong.there would be plenty of 30msp characters resetting their skills and putting themself as instant titan pilots for alliances.achieving skills is part of the eve game and the choices you make in eve really do have a reward/consequence to them."
"in the most recent csm election there were 54 candidates to choose from for 9 spots. this is to many choices for most people to reasonably research each candidate.more stringent requirements for entering a csm election may be needed. a longer write up, mandatory attendance for a voice debate for example. these would cut the candidates down to those most willing to invest the time.choosing between 25 or so players would be much easier"
"if you weren't capable of dismissing 80% of the csm6 candidates within 5 seconds of reading their thread then there's really no hope for you."
"clearly, ecm strength; is applied vs. sensor strength. maybe it's a little random; but that's the general idea. 33 is enough, to reliably ecm a battleship; or, apply it to 3 cruisers, with some degree of success. the problem with ecm, is the inability to target all factions; with anything near effective strength, using multi-spectral ecm. all you're really doing, is attempting to discredit my posts; to further the strength of your own arguments.i may not have supported the thread; but i have supported your idea. that should be enough.do you think you're the first to post this here? i'm surprised obsidian hawk didn't point you in the direction of the nearest thread; given he has a penchent for doing that. self -imposed forum moderation, so to speak. anyway, it's been done; and i properly supported it that time. you haven't so much as stated what you think is wrong with black op's; leaving the whole thread, completely in the dark about what you hope to accomplish.here's my thought:cloaking for black op's is broken. maybe it shouldn't be as good as covert op's or stealth bomber; but, it could certainly use some improvement. in fact, if it just had access to covert op's cloaks; with a 99% flat reduction, it would be good. no need for a 125% velocity modifier; which makes it roughly 100 m/s faster than base, with full skill. still requires 100tf, to fit the cloak; and can warp cloaked, as a nice benfit.2 ly jump range could be modified. apply a level dependent benfit, to it; that gives it a max. distance of around 4 ly, with black op's v. this can replace the current 125% per level velocity mechanic.if you had that; the black op's would be serviceable, and it's slight reduction in tank, wouldn't matter. cripes, it's hardly even noticeable."
"agree no content.some good info here. lots of bad info here.i've been playing with the widow on the test server for a bit. its viable for solo pvp as is. the biggest problem is geting on grid due to the lack of a covert ops cloak.getting off grid is easy, as you can align while cloaked. due to the velocity bonus, you will be able to attain 75% of top velocity while cloaked, and thus can insta-warp off grid as soon as you decloak. align time in a bo is therefore largely irrelevant.someone pointed out bo sensor lock time. clearly you have never used a cloak of any kind, otherwise you would know that a non-covert cloak gimps your scan resolution. on a bs-sized ship, that sucks. even without the sensor recalibration delay, you won't be able to lock any subcaps before they warp out or put drones on you. sebo w/ scan res script is required on a bo for solo work. if in a gang where others will be doing the tackling, then you can forgo it.i agree the biggest problem is a lack of range on the portal and jump drive. personally, i think most portals and jump drives have too much range, bo not included. if you want an improvement, i would recommend fixing the jump fuel conservation skill to include liquid ozone. as it stands now, it only applies to strontium clathrates, which are used for titan bridges, meaning the only use for the skill is for titan pilots.this would allow for longer roams, though not longer jumps."
"dude, do you even know how ecm works? using 2 jammers that each have 15 strength isnt the same as using a single one with 30 strength. not. even. close.and yet thats what your post seems to imply.getting on grid is easy. the module you should be using is covert cynosural field generator ialso, im not saying that the class isnt viable for its roles. its the cost-effectiveness ratio thats horribly skewed. and its jump range is gimped to ****.i maintain that this ship needs a repurposing, rather than some crappy small buff, to make it something like/close to a dedicated covert ops hotdropping machine. or maybe split it into 2 ships, one for bridging, the other for combat hotdropping (like combat and force recon?)"
"seems like some peopel in here that have commented never actualy flown or tried to fit a sin."
"confirming i have a redeemer and a panther, i think both are absolute **** and serve no purpose in game. they do look good in my hanger though. the knowledge that there are more sc's in eve than bo's makes me feel all warm and fuzzy about having 2 of them. at which point i of course try to suppress the knowledge that unlike sc's, bo's are just a massive waste of isk."
"black ops do not need covert ops cloaks. understand the mechanics of the ship.they work as intended, though if i could ask for a buff or two:1) slight range buff. 1 ly would be nice, 2 ly would be epic.2) expanded fuel bay. while this would be fun, it isn't a necessity - at all. covert haulers and fuel dumps make this a non-issue."
"i wonder how many people who post stuff like this have ever seen a blops beyond eft and their corpmates providing them with a cov-ops bridgewhy are people too dumb to realise that thats 5000ms. you know, 5 seconds."
"lol. people like you are the ones who spent all this time training up black ops expecting it to be an i-win button. stop whining and put a little thought into how you utilize a ship.edit: grammar for the police"
"thats exactly what everyone who (successfully) uses them for their intended purpose is asking for."
"i never flown a bo myself but i was fuele supply in a crane on a covert roam oncewe had to take a gate between 2 regions cause the range of the portal was not good enough to take us 1 jump :(and my crane nearly takes half of the fuel bay when jumping true the portal :(as far as i can tell that are the 2 biggest problems with boand there is nothing wrong with the dps as i had a corpmate in a carrier who got hotdroped bu a bo gang and they got him into half armor before his cap repairs had finished a cyclehe only survived cause he was right next to a pos"
"i'm a very new player (about a month and a half), and am quite enjoying the new pace and approach of this game. i'm pretty much pve, and switch between mining and missions. i'm not savvy enough to understand many of the topics in this forum, i'm still in the learning curve. lol, just when i think i get it, i realize it's so much more complicated than i thought!i tried to get into eve a couple of years ago, but i just found the learning curve too dry and wall-of-textbook, and i just couldn't keep my mind on the task - back then i just couldn't get into it. however, this time it worked! i heard about that incarna thing on youtube, and thought i should see if i can handle eve now. see if i can actually get a grip on the hardest mmo out there! :p well, it's working for me this time - the new player environment is far more approachable than it was before. i'm not missing my old mmo.i'm hoping that the player representatives are gonna be good for the incarna project, so that it's done right and creatively. i'm keen on more fun depth to characterization in the game. i'm guessing that a good number of guy players don't care much/at all about character aesthetics beyond their shiny ships and machinery, but for me it's a fabulous addition to see the man/woman character behind the machine - adding a bit of style/more personality to player substance. i admit i'm hoping for stations to have stuff like fashion boutiques with rad/avante garde clothes/hair salons for new hair dyes/pubs where we can do corp meetings and maybe let drinks give us fleet buffs, etc. i'd just love all that stuff! i'd also like to be able to customize my quarters a bit (flowers, a painting or two, nice blanket on the bed), but it's not terribly important. just having a cool looking character is huge for this game. (talking about this makes me wish we could also customize our ships; make their paintwork more unique.)with publicity, the incarna expansion/project could attract more players just like me, thereby increasing subscription resources that the developers can use to improve the game etc. all mmos need new blood!good luck to this new csm6 player rep group, i hope you do good things for everyone, for newbies like me, and the senior players. we all have an interest in how things turn out! that's for sure!is anyone able to give a roundabout date for when in summer incarna starts coming out? i'd love a general idea.cheers,sapphire fangborn"
"saph, while i'm glad to see that you are enjoying the game, this is not the place for boundless optomism, nor is that kind of talk likely to go down well in any place on the forums.if you don't have a corp, mine is recruiting. i'm good at explaining things to people. contact jaik7 ingame and i'll refer you to my main. its a sign of how cutthroat this game can be that i don't post on my main. sorry if i havent reset the cspa charge on him yet, i'll give you a refundanother great source for info is evelopedia, if you havent found it already. another great tool you can use is called evemon, which helps you to plot out the skill tree you want your character to work down. if you can't find any info on what you want in those two locations, you can even post in the (appropriate) forums or file a petetion by hitting f12 ingame."
"i, too, am hiring. for the price of only 500 million isk you can joint test alliance with full capital and supercapital reimbursements. join wolol_pub for more info!... but seriously, there's really no bounds to how utterly horrible everyone here is. view eve as a space bastardry simulator and you'll be fine :)"
"they're too expensive in both isk and lp to justify their purchase or sale except in structured friend/ally buys and/or personal use scenarios.reduce their price to 175,000lp and 175,000,000 isk, which using a fair 2000 isk/lp metric would lead to a much saner ~525m price point, and not the 1-1.5b that makes such implants as the 6% armor wholly not worth it in comparison to buying an 8% akemon for ~1b.and i don't care who you are, an extra 1% damage in the cx-2.5 is not worth an extra 850m-1.35b over the ~150m cx-2 unless you're a trillionaire.2,500lp/2.5m for the low-grades and 37,500lp/37.5m for the mid-grades is fair and makes sense. where 250,000lp/250m came from, i have no clue, and it should be lowered.also, while i'm at it - think up some new \"common joe\" mods for the lp store. the concord cloaking device would be a good start."
"supporting my own idea/post."
"supported, the concord store needs to offer items that aren't just for supercapital pilots."
"not supported."
"not supporting.more items yes.lower prices... no."
"whatever happened to the logoffski proposal?fix to logoffski proposalseems this is a major sore spot for alot of players.my opinion: if your ship get aggressed within the 60 second window after logoff, your ship should gain the 15 minute wait before disappearing. no matter the status of your connection or circumstance.terror"
"the only buff i would give shuttles is to make their warp speed even faster, everything else is fine. theyre not meant to be combat ships, theyre meant to shuttle someone from one place - to another. also, slowboat speed needs to be increased a bit. maybe 150% of current value."
"not supported, shuttles don't need changing.if you want something faster than a shuttle in space and warp with an offensive capability train up inty, they make great runabouts."
"a carrier pilot can assign fighters to a shuttle."
"i think the ship the op is looking for is called a frigate."
"signed"
"oh no my isks aren't gonna be risk free"
"its an unfortunate side affect, but thats what the war deccing corp/alliance is trying to do by declaring war on said corp - disrupt their abilities to do things.i dont think wardecs should nullify in incursion contested areas."
"i agree with this, if concord doesn't want to get it's hands dirty with incursions then the system should have it's sec status reduced until it is cleared and has remained clear for a few days after the incursion has ended.as to wardec's live with them, they are the only thing that makes hisec remotely interesting which is why i moved to 0.0 and have never looked back."
"if someone wants to spend the isk to prevent you from doing something profitable, that's simple interdiction and wholly in the \"unrestricted\" light and vein eve likes to cast itself in.it's bad enough that there are three high-sec incursions that spawn for every one low-sec one which carries with it hazards from not only wardecs but garden-variety gankers, but now no one can stop your isk-making, either?no. just no.this idea intrigues me any i would like to subscribe to your newsletter.and from an rp perspective, it raises a decent point. if concord show up to kill someone who ganks someone running a highsec incursion, why don't they also help you kill the sansha? the answer? because you're their slaves, doing their work for them ooooooh meta."
"no.just like all the other \"i want to reassign my sp\" threads.this thread should not have been started, do your research."
"supported"
"rigs are not 'broken' and do not need to be fixed in any form. theyre not supposed to be a hot swappable part, theyre supposed to be a one time investment."
"not supported. i think that says it all, the system works well and consider once you put a change like this in place how long will it be before pilots demanded the right to swap implant in and out like modules. some choices should just be lived with."
"the csm is the *****ing outlet for ccp. like they would let any csm dictate game design. they will listen to little issues of course but huge game changing things? harhar. the csm is nothing more then high demand companies putting a jobs email in their contact area. this email of course goes right to the trash."
"this is a very vicious interpretation of our activities :("
"sorry. i dont mean to discourage you and i do think there are issues in eve but i dont feel that ccp needs all this pageantry to figure out what those problems are. i think the csm has a psychological effect on the players base as it makes them feel \"in control\" and maybe thats a good thing. but i dont think people need to fear nc, goons or any player affecting the balance of eve from a game design perspective."
"as long as 10 ships will be killing something faster than one, people will keep trying to outnumber the enemy."
"deklein has a greater proportion of -0.65 or better systems than any region in the game that isn't a drone region."
"itt: perhaps the only person who really understands \"competitive advantage\""
"so you all promised to protect the interests of those of us who hack it out in null sec. now ccp is on a null sec nerfing rampage. what is csm 6 going to do about it?"
"i strongly urge the mittana to quit in protest of this hate crime against the eve player base."
"nullsec rampage! **** poster in hyperbole shocker!"
"the patch is being rushed in during the csm transitional period, and given that we're not yet 'seated' we're not yet in a position to influence this decision. that being said, we haven't been asked what we think of it either. i can assure you we will have a united position on this subject soon."
"thanks for the update.see everyone. now that we have a real csm filled with actual players who care and not a bunch of high sec noobs (exception being vuk lau who did the best giving the situation of being surrounded by morons) like csm 5, **** will actually get done.i salute you sir! 07"
"well an easy way to open negociation :all leave your csm positions.that would be clear enough for ccp."
"maybe actually wait till they even do something constructive before you tell them how f4nnytastic they are.tbh most of the carebear complaints about the anom changes seems more a knee jerk reaction without looking at all the changes in close detail and how exactly they will affect null sec.the 'oooh noes don't take my sactums away' isn't an effective argument against it.we survived np before we had the carebear changes to space.personaly i can see good and bad with both sides of the coin i.e. i like the idea of true sec actually meaning something again but will it definitly make some space crap especially with the changes to plexs in null sec and the l4 nerf supposed to be coming or will it just reduce the isk coming into game,lower the prices of the market and opening up more space meaning more pvp.risk vs reward is unbalanced just now with null sec actually being fairly safe if not safer that empire in some parts."
"indeed, the long term consequences of this change are - in an immediate sense - unforeseeable. it may act as a significant conflict driver, it may not. its important to also note that higher trusec means more than 2 sanctums, so most regions will have at least a handful of systems which have a fairly reasonably amount of sanctums in them.however, it is unfortunate that regions like pure blind will be getting a kick over this. we'll have to see how it plays out over the next couple of months. once a change this significant is made, the process of analyzing the after-effects is long and arduous."
"yeah some regions look to be hit worse than others.provi looking to be one of the really bad ones.but then again it was considered crap before but i think what cva (when they had it) did with it,really opened up a large section of space that gave newer players to null sec a chance to experience it.would this change make a drive towards that again,who knows but there's no doubt the current meathod with massive coalitions holding some space and renting out the rest isn't an ideal situation."
"i would assume the non-******s of them are giggling like schoolgirls."
"in cas you missed it ill quote it for you dear op: originally by: the mittaniyou ccp guys do know most modern alliances reimburse fleet ships and so the actual trusec of a staging system has absolutely no impact upon the combat strength/ability to fight of an alliance at war, right?-------------so if youre in an good alliance you can still fight like you desire as a 00 fightbearyoure set mate"
"csm,egghead recently put out a dev blog stating that we (the nc) are to blame for inflation because we don't kill enough and make too much isk. does he not understand that a healthy wallet is a happy wallet? what am i supposed to fight with? harsh language?! what the hell is he on about? so this is the reason for the anomaly nerf? i don't understand all this. i saw lots of graphs and economic mumbo jumbo and fast talk. i don't really think it is accurate at all to be honest.what are your thoughts on it???"
"my thoughts,1/10 and i'm being generous."
"fully supported. no need to reward people for suicide ganking. if anything give them 1000 virgins. would at least be a funny gift for it."
"there are portions of highsec i can enter i should fix that"
"cosmetic (however i feel cosmetic stuff should be able to be paid in isk as well as an isk sink).as much as i would love attribute point remaps for plex, i dont think the total game population would benefit from it. even though i really really really would like it, i dont want to support it."
"bump!"
"yes please. if you did this you'd have a hard time ever separating me from my ishtar.edit: support derp"
"add to that more mods like other weapon systems. like a damage increasing mod for low slots."
"supported"
"just reported all those people in the thread who were simply trolling, also supported !"
"well there is the issue of titan bridging into a maxxed out system, as well as other caps.having a large amount of ships jumping in does create a lot of server load straight away so this specific fix wont be able to resolve that as such. but once in the system, request load for every kind of movement will be subject to the time dilation.although... the server wont be as backed up as normal from fighting in system so jumping in would be a little quicker i guess!and btw im glad you're in support of this mittani! i see my vote didnt go to waste! =)i would like this understood and known to all though, im pretty sure the effect has to be server wide so affecting all systems tied to the server the system is on, therefore in the interests of all players on in the systems hosted on the server it would have to only be implemented on a pre-requested dedicated server only. basically fill out those fleet fight notification forms before downtime pretty plz!this isnt a suggested feature, just pre-empt'ing what i believe ccp would most likely say if they did implement it.hope that answered some questions for u tyme xandr =)"
"think about it: even the op wrote while slowing down cycle-times would not reduce alpha damage, it would reduce dps, hence allowing for longer battles. longer battles means, as the op wrote, time for more reinforcements to enter the target system and time for those dead to re-enter the battle. the very thing you are attempting at fixing (lag due to blobs) is the thing you are encouraging!you are only essentially creating synthetic lag (the newly increased cycle time versus existing non-responsive modules) and creating a system that encourages even larger numbers of participants in a battle. if you are in a super and the whole world starts flashing red, you have a much greater chance with increased cycle-times to opt to exit the battle via the old crtl-q option. which means fewer dead caps and supers. hence the ops suggestion that there are no meta-game aspects of this proposal are false.this proposal would also certainly help the largest of alliances / coalitions, and be another nail in the mid- to small alliance's coffins. (note: i am a member of an alliance in a coalition, but pointing this out to be fair.) more chances to turn the tide of a losing battle by calling in another group of people, but now with even more time if you are calling people from further away. another hidden meta-game aspect of the proposal for battles where one or more of the participants didn't have a chance to monkey with game mechanics ahead of time.at fanfest, did talk with the dev who champions this idea and pointed these realities out. even he agreed that the consequences could be exactly what is explained above. if anything, this proposal should be called the \"lag on steroids fix\"."
"if i dont recall the whole war on lag is to streamline server performance to allow players to fight lag free... but its been seen that the more headroom u give the more players enter and fight. this although isnt a bad thing in principle as the perfect situation ccp's technical team want would be to handle any size fight lag free. theyre goal is to slowly close the gap from the current situation to this perfect state. from what you're saying it sounds like you're very much opposed to wanting a beautifully streamlined system capable of handling any size fleet fight. i guess the reasoning would be that opponents outgunned would have to actually fight fairly and actually bring in game tactics into use rather then metagaming/intentional server crash tactics to succeed against the odds. tell me another game where this isnt considered deliberate hacking or cheating? as apposed to having the whole server locked down with 3 1/2 hours of lag not knowing if your multi billion isk ship has survived or not through absolutely no fault of your own, your fc's or the games actual in built mechanics? less lag benefits both parties of a fight... u do realise this right? less lag means in actual fact less server calls per second so more chance of being able to lock and alpha something off the field. plus you do realise that ships logging off take time to align and warp out from the field, let alone the aggression timer that has to go before the ship actually disappears from the system. what you call incurred meta gaming aspects of this proposal im pretty sure everyone at ccp would call a c t u a l designed game mechanics. fair enough game mechanics would be stretched to an extent but they wont be utterly annihilated by the current clusterf**k situation happening. i agree a large alliance/coalition that has stagnated and become carebares shouldnt be allowed to keep space by game mechanics but something like that would not by sheer behavior muscle up enough to fight blob vs blob regardless of being allowed more time to rally more members to the fight, purely for the fact they just wont fight.tl;dr...i love the fact people cry at game fixes that means they loose an edge they shouldnt have even had in the first place! since when should a game be augmented to allow the continuation of bugs and exploits than actually played using the original designers mechanics????"
"all this proposal would do is replace the current server lag with intended module lag. six of one and a half dozen of another. and, because it allows for more people to enter the battle, does not counter the essential element of lag: the blob itself.quite the opposite: i am in favor of streamlined battles that require tactics over solely numbers. but, as was stated in the roundtable on the matter, if you open the door to 2000 man fights, people will bring in 2500. open it to 2500, they will bring in 3000. this proposal will not change that. and then you have traditional lag and now defacto module lag. nothing accomplished.and, though i agree with you that the eve-mechanic of crashing nodes when things go south is reprehensible, nothing proposed here will stop other methods of deliberately causing node-death. that is why many fcs prefer not to drop into lagfests if avoidable. look at the prolonged dance just this week between nc. and nc up north. both sides decided to not drop into that situation rather then rather then risk their caps / supers with lag uncertainty. and in countless other instances where a fleet was stood down because the enemy was already in position. in a way, current lag does force some strategy. this proposal creates more of a free-for-all approach to blobbing with even higher numbers of conventionals and capitals / supers. yes - but with the reduced dps due to module times being increased, the chances to kill a sc or titan go down before it deagresses. we have seen fleets sent home for fear of crashing nodes (when things were going in that party's favor). or being told they were too far from the battle. if the module-cycle-timer does accomplish anything (and, last i checked, there are many other elements that contribute to lag that this proposal does not cover), those forces will now enter the battle.but yes: if a fleet / alliance / coalition just won't fight, it should die. but that goes beyond the conversation here."
"supported"
"supported1st time i saw a nyx, awesome ship and wtf did someone shrink it ?"
"supported! supers should be super sized! but even so i like the command carriers idea too!"
"this idea is also being discussed in the thread [proposal] mining makeover."
"my problem with that thread is it proposes to change too much. \"strip miners with falloff bonus/penalty. scordite with bistot cores. denser ore=slower mining.\"while those ideas might be good for changing mining into something more interesting and 'fun'? my idea is to make mining more profitable for non macro miners while keeping everything else the same.i did read towards the end a similar idea was brought forward. hoping mine is clear and concise and doesnt represent a large overhaul of anything."
"you'd fit in with csm just fine! \"discussed heaps of stuff about [nda].\""
"well well well.. some ideas on here are more promising than others i have to say!esan has some fair comments, and yes the initial design of fof missiles mirrors rl fof systems but im also in agreement with bumblefck about the fact its 20th century tech and not untra futuristic tech so here is my reformed ideas on this.fof's should be a 2 fold system. on the 1 hand they shouldnt require the use of the ships sensors in pvp but there should be some tie-in to ships sensors when your ship isn't being ecm'd.so basically when ur not being ecm'd fof missiles should seek out targets set out on the currently active overview regardless of whether they're locked or not. bt not in any particular order. fof's should also seek and hit other combat related things like missiles and drones sort of in the way defender missiles do.when you are being ecm'd though anything thats not broadcasing a fof signal, aka things that are set as blue will be a valid target, whether theyre lco's or not. fof missile behavior while you're ecm'd should act much like nbsi with a show all overview for itself.i would add that the fof damage should be reduced for balancing."
"interesting points! thanks for your contribution i think a big difficulty is somehow reconciling the suggested improvements with the danger of them becoming overpowered, but as you have said (and i agree with you, having said it a few times so far ) reducing their damage output to compensate would probably work wonders.again thanks for the input and we're getting some good discussion here!"
"yes please"
"mining is fine as it is. atleast the system behind. many players like mining cause you don't have to pay that much attention while doing it.the problem is: it's not worth it. fix macro miners asap. they are the real problem. if thats done, take a look at the need of minerals and adjust them to make mining a good income.at the moment, it's not worth to skill a hulk and start mining. you can fly lv'4s in a raven in the same skilltime. makes more profit."
"that was maybe one of the only entries ive seen here (besides moving a bulk of the asteroids to randomly spawning grav sites) that i have liked."
"this whole thread is based around the idea that wardecs arent meant to be for greifing."
"well, ccp did state in the past that wardecs weren't designed for griefing, so yeah, that's the right idea."
"+1. also, i would appreciate the option of which noobship to receive.-liang"
"maybe an option to get one at each dock as well, i use noob ships sometimes to traverse some areas, better to get caught by an intie eject and quick warp in my pod before they realize then to get the suprise almost immediately upon entering a hostile system.edited to note that each time u dock in a pod"
"supported. just add a \"get noobie ship\" button when docked, or make it a permanently redeemable item with a 15 minute cooldown."
"ok i added the \"get a new ship\" idea to my proposal as it seems to be the most pop may of doing thisthx for the input everyone :d"
"make it so!"
"well overdue, been needed since mid 2008. hopefully the csm this time can get something done by ccp......pretty big hope.."
"supported!"
"supported"
"i call upon all eve podpilots to petition for you to just deal with it."
"you ain't seen nothin yet~"
"could you come to deklein and make decisions for us we need someone to make real decisions for us :ohdear:"
"yes he's not good for the community, but he'll be there until at least next year unless they catch him passing nda material to the goonies. be careful though, he's already trying to marginalize \"the assembly hall,\" where we can easily follow if he's representing himself or the community."
"if your ideas were any good maybe you'd control the csmyou lost the battle of ideas dwi"
"i didnt select 'support' when i wrote what i wrote because i have little faith in csms ability to get things done anyhow. i do believe they can bring forth our ideas and opinions, but ultimately i feel ccp knows the problems and choose to do little with it anyhow."
"hahahah oh godhe's obviously going to casually breach the legally binding non-disclosure agreement he signed, or will sign, just for the superficial benefit of his internet spaceship alliance, to hell with the consequencesgod you're dumb, things like this have real world consequences, you know, you can't just get another character irl"
"remember back in 2007 a letter your alliance wrote concerning another alliance? the news even hit the nyt ..."
"so your logic is thus; mittani represents the alliance that stood against developer misconduct and cheating and therefore is certain to break a legally binding agreement himself? despite y'know.. having made a living off the law."
"irrelevant (i also wasn't playing eve in 2007)"
"it was in reference to what the quoted post said. you goons are horrible at having conversations. if you cant follow a conversation then maybe you shouldnt be having them."
"jeez, so we plan to stop people from entering the csm because they are a part of a group you dont like now?personally goons in general is better than most players in eve due to the fact they know its a freaking game...on the other hand: who would you vote for and did you vote at all?i think that most people would rather vote for a guy they know and can be predicted to do what he promises, and its easier to trust a person that might be in your alliance or it might even be a friend of yours instead of some nobody who spews out promises like no tomorrow.you should know that its a mere 14% of the eve population that even voted for csm 6, so you can expect at least the alliances of the members supported them because of what they are known for, if 100% of the eve population voted no single alliance could vote forth their candidate on their own."
"yes, we're just going to suddenly start spreading nda protected material now, of all times. the guys who no one likes who have been involved in every single csm are now going to just start breachin' those ndas. the other day i was walking down the street and i saw an nda and i was like **** that and i breached that son of a *****. then the mittani descended from heaven and gave me a high five.what i'm saying is that you are dumb."
"i'd like it so right wing fascist closed minded conservatives who belive in intelligent design can't run for government but unfortunately they can because everyone is allowed to vote for who they want to. the csm is the same. the way i see the csm, people like mittani and killer2 only got a few thousand votes each. there were thousands more votes they didn't get than got. if other csm candidates were better are winning voters then there might have been more competition. i voted for killer2, not because he's in the nc but because i liked what he said and what he stands for. mittani was second choice because i liked what he said too. i bothered to read blogs and listen to pod casts so i could take an informed opinion. had many of the whiners on here done the same they might realise that the csm6 represents not just 0.0 players but all eve players. to much talking done here and not enough reading and learning."
"i don't believe it is possible to marginalize the assembly hall any more than it already has been"
"have you ever seen so many goonie bees around one hive. guess they swarm when their queen bee is being talked about. all kidding aside, have you ever seen such goon participation in the assembly hall. that is great but for the fact they want to marginalized it so the chairman doesn't feel the need to be obligated to represent the whole communnity. that is what i would do if i had the big stick and was obsessed with an agenda i wanted to push. hey this may all be hysteria (hope so), but warrents watching considering the chairman's past history"
"we luv2postalso we luv2own the csm"
"at this point these kinds of threads are just a waste. no...i don't trust \"the mittani\" either but whats done is done. ccp isn't going to take an idea from any csm that will break the game. ccp can do that on their own. even if ccp did decide to hold another election for csm it would take them at least 6 months to come to that conclusion and another 6 months to make it happen...at which point it is election time anyway.so for the time being i say we just kick back...relax and watch and see what the new csm team does. i am sure there will be many tears and threats to ragequit...in which case...can i haz your stuffs and i need to go buy more popcorn."
"thread cleaned. please do not discuss real world politics on the eve online forums."
"that obviously has nothing to do with our alliance having thousands of members, of course.every csm delegate was legitimately elected according to ccp's rules concerning csm elections. therefore, there is no reason to start a new election."
"it is not a legitimate election if the mittani's character was not born in the eve universe. i want to see the mittani's in game birth certificate."
"wait does he mean 'elected' chairman or 'alleged' chairman i can't tell through all the drooling idiocy"
"right now, if someone has you locked, they get yellow brackets around their icon on the overview. if they try to harm you(shoot, jam, etc.), they turn red. i'd like to add one more mode to this - if someone is aiding you(cap transfer, remote rep, etc.), the brackets should turn green. if they're both aiding and harming you, like a tard, make it striped red/green or something. this would make it a lot easier to see what's happening with logi etc. in fleets, and it'd create no lag(since all the information is already being sent anyways). not a big deal, but it'd be nice if this wound up on team bff's big list. if you wanted to get ambitious, you could also make icons for what the aiding effects are, just like we get ew icons now, but that's not a big deal."
"do this"
"yes"
"yes"
"why do you have friendlies on your overview in the first place?"
"it would also show up in space, which would be nice as well. so give a thumbs up for a good idea noob!"
"because you're a logistics pilot? or you're paranoid about knowing that the reps are actually coming? or you just like showing off how super powerful your gaming-rig-from-hell really is?"
"brilliant!"
"would"
"sure. though i'd rather have red override green bracket than be striped."
"supporting a hersch post = winvedy good idea... yes."
"supported."
"i fly logi a lot. knowing when the guardian feeding me is getting capped out and not transferring me any more is useful."
"i like the general idea. it would be nice if the bracket icon could change instead of or in addition to turning green. i have color vision issues and the yellow/green/red mix would make it really hard for me to determine who is doing what.other than that great idea!!!"
"no reason why this shouldn't be in the game. just make sure the colour is easily distinguishable from the yellow box. id' prefer a blue brackets because some shades of yellow and green are not easily distinguishable but that's for the whoever makes this for decide."
"simple and effective. +1"
"\0/ good idea"
"this would be a really useful ui enhancement.the only caveat i'd add would be that if someone assists and aggros you, they should still be redboxed."
"i like it. thumbs up for a simple to implement yet very beneficial change."
"even though i cannot stamd the red (), i support the concept of the op."
"wow seriously, ccp wordfiltersvov sure, ill support this, it seems rather dumb"
"."
"supported"
"it's a problem in low/null sec too. station hugging carrier rr's a camper, if it can't keep the camper alive he docks into carrier, hops in a shuttle and warps off. carrier simply docks if any threat to it is made. lukka has been doing this for months. there is absolutely no counter to it, the best you can hope for is to survive (which isn't that hard tbh). lukka aptly named his carrier alt's thanny \"risk free pvp.\" of course, he isn't the only one doing it. i did it once just to try it out and yes, it is cheating by any definition. sadly the gm's at ccp are not responding to repeated exploit petitions on the issue.in any case, there are a few solutions:1) you cannot dock a ship inside a ship maintenance bay while under attack.2) normal aggro rules apply, you can't dock within 60s of an aggressive act.3) docking in another ship transfers 15min player/corp aggro to that ship and adds a 60s aggressive action timer to them as well (can't dock/jump)."
"my domi with 3x trimarks goes 750m/s let's reiterate. you thought you'd be a bamf and shoot at a little frigate that went red. frig scrams your butt and you fail to drive him off with drones. orca warps in and frig switches to something bigger.. you suck too much to warp off while nothing is pointing you. new ship blows you up. you lose at carebear pvp. obvious answer is to come to forums and demand changes to game mechanics because you're too stupid to do the obvious: don't shoot at the obvious bait.is that about right?"
"+1 internets for using white text. :)i was starting to think you had a grudge with the color blind."
"thank you so much. this is gonna be the best thing that happened to highsec warfare. must exploit asap. get it while it's still hot."
"bump to get on the priority list."
"many botter are aware of the 3 strikes rule and use the character bazar to swap these characters out.once a ban has taken place a character should be un tradable for 6 months.following that it should show on the characters record."
"characters do not get banned; accounts do. how would swapping a character on the bazaar help at all?"
"this is definitely open for opinions and suggestions to my original idea.where i do believe mmorpg's need to have ways to simplify interaction, i believe that local chat is no longer being used as such and is now a clairvoyance tool.all local chat should worm like wormhole space. if typed into, it shows your presence. otherwise it is blank or even an optional channel to join.this may reduce the number of botting software as the majority of botting software utilize local chat to give inhuman response time to escape.now i do believe there was a mention of directional scan becoming faster and reaching further, which would definitely balance not having local chat or in the least, ease the transition. i do believe though that the directional scan should get two modes of operation. one being its current function, and the other being similar to the draedis from battlestar (or a spherical variant of current radar technology). the mode would offer autonomous updating of the d-scan so people weren't mashing their scan buttons instead of playing the game. that way pve guys still have a defense against sudden ganks, but the autonomous scanner would be slower (possibly 10-20 seconds before making a full 360 degree sweep)?regardless, i know people have been calling for local chat and d-scan updates for awhile now."
"no"
"of for god's sake leave the nullsec kids their local? if it's changed ccp will be forced to redo the directional scanner.proper directional scanning and combat probe scanning are one of the few things in this game that require some skill to do properly, lets not do anything to make things even easier than they already are to the carebears out there."
"local intel works both ways. nothing wrong with it imo. the only people crying over it are the ones that seem to think 0.0 should be filled with easy carebear kills. well, it already is if you know how to set up a proper ambush. wormhole space has no local for rp reasons, no gates to report your entrace, no ded. this is fine, as wh are not static and you actually have to look for them.if all of a sudden gates despawned and moved every day, and no longer appeared on your overview then maybe.removing local would only have the effect of giving recons god mode.if you really want to catch those pesky carebears, figure out where they safe, set up sling bubbles...and trap them.i'd much rather live with the current mechanics than change them and hope that ccp would make a d-scan that wasn't almost worthless. also, remember that the d-scan had its frequency nerfed to 2 seconds because of lag issues."
"no most bots don't use local they read the data that is sent to the client so if local was changed to delayed mode bots would still be able to see if someone jumps into the system"
"in other words: \"i can't get cheap kills because everyone in a system just cloaks up when i show up on local\""
"in each system, there are stargates, installed by the four empires. these stargates register pilots upon entry into the system. and this information is made accessible to all pilots within the system. that's the rp justification of local chat. in wormholes, there are no stargates, resulting local chat only registers a pilot after a broadcast has been made.local chat and d-scan are fine the way they are. you don't get much more from d-scan except for shiptypes and direction. you don't get much more from local chat except who the pilot is, and what standing he is to you.if your regular pve joe can't make do with these intels. he isn't gonna make do. or even make it."
"these appeared on evenews24 as a fake dev-blog, but are actually great ideas!!!do these!source:"
"ok so give them a 5% tracking bonous per lvl. and allow them to lock 2x more targets (total of 4) when in siege mode. that along with my orginal sugestion should \"fix\" dreads.fail for using alt to post"
"no. neuts are already overpowered as it is."
"i know, i know--the hybrid issue has been absolutely beaten to death.however, i wouldn't start a new thread (this is the first thread i've ever started) without a legitimate reason.okay, the main premise for my idea is that hybrids as they are right now aren't too bad in and of themselves (blaster tracking and rail alpha/dps issues aside), but they just don't work with the ships they're on. what i propose is instead of directly buffing the guns themselves, give improvements to the ships they're fitted on.let's take a look at blasters. yes there are fitting issues. yes there are tracking issues. and yes there is the problem of not being able to get in range to apply the dps. alright, let's see if we can fix the third issue. instead of trying to increase blaster range (which directly buffs the guns) i propose that specific ship bonuses are given based on the gun type: *slightly more speed and agility per electron gun fitted (i was thinking around 2-3% per gun); *slightly more shield and armor resists per ion gun fitted (around 5%);*and somewhat more shield and armor hp per neutron gun fitted (probably 10% would do).to me, these bonuses would actually give a reason for the increased fittings costs, and make the tracking and range issues somewhat more acceptable as you have different means by which to survive the approach. and naturally, i don't think the guns' bonuses should be stacking penalized, but open to different interpretations.rail gun using ships would also benefit from these bonuses for the corresponding gun types (electron bonus applied to duals, etc.), but other ideas welcomed."
"you want to give blaster/rail megas a 70% ehp boost?"
"not specifically, but i do want to give a reason to fit hybrids if they don't boost the guns themselves. i do see your point, though. perhaps a cap on the total amount gained through the boosts would be appropriate."
"passive shield tank myrmidom say, \"wassup!!!\""
"the idea of putting ion and neutron blasters on an abaddon to tank it out is so absurd that i almost want to support it, but no, this is silly. fix the gun characteristics themselves, don't give them wacky nonsensical side effects."
"and perhaps a less ridiculously overpowered buff to hybrids might also be appropriate, don't you think?"
"okay, apparently the hp buff is too much. the specific amount is not supposed to be the main idea, anyway, though.would the hp bonus be more realistic set around 3 or 4%?and what about the speed bonus? appropriate?"
"getting bogged down on the specific numbers and ignoring the concept is just not very intelligent. the idea behind this post is interesting, just like many others that have been proposed and will be ignored by ccp"
"while i can appreciate outside the box thinking, scatim has it summed up here in bold. how do these types of buffs make sense? even in a fiction world we still want the majority of it to seem logical.i'd amend to proper basic hybrid gun tweeks and apply better bonuses to applicable gun ships to make them more specialized. make an eagle and a deimos really rock! though the eagle needs more help than just the guns. ftlog give the eagle a better hull design and add a midslot! heh, sorry, i'll save that for another thread"
"obligatory \"this is eve, not wow. ~consequence~\" post"
"but i want to respec my priest...err i mean pvp toon. ;)"
"quoted for truth. unless ccp decides to get rid of another set of skills, like they did with the learning skills, every last sp put into any skill is permanent."
"did you read every write up?i doubt it.i know i didn't."
"after reading the latest qen, i've ran into a problem about player ignorance concerning me levels. now, i know that darwinism should work in eve and all, but that's not really an argument against an improvement like this. so, since there is already a tool that can do this out of the game (evemon blueprint section) and it was mentioned in the qen, let's just say that an in-game tool should be added for comparing material/time requirements between theoretical blueprints with different me/pe settings entered.it would work something like this:- there will be a window separated in two different sections- one text entering box where you can type in/search for a specific blueprint- when the desired blueprint is found and selected, both sections will load default me=0 pe=0 stats for a blueprint- each section of the blueprint compare window will have fields where you can change me and pe levels and see the results. that will allow not only the comparison of the researched vs. unresearched blueprint, but of the two differently researched blueprints- a \"reset to default\" button in each section of the window allowing easy loading of the predefined default me/pe levelfurther iteration of this tool could involve saving presets for different blueprints and offering them in the research window when starting me/pe research jobs.support if you like it.cheers,anti"
"absolutely not supported.there are plenty of player-made tools out there for blueprint management so there is no reason for ccp developers to spend their time on one. rumor is they have other things to work on."
"well, considering the size of the suggested features/fixes backlog, how much time it takes for anything to be done and ccp's work on redesigning the core of ui, by supporting this idea it will only enter as a valid proposal that would be probably looked at somewhere mid next year (optimistic). supporting this proposal is just detecting the need for such a tool, not forcing it to be done asap."
"a comparison tool is only going to benefit people who know to use it.i would suggest that any me research job should provide a quote indicating what parameters of the bpo will change as a result of the research.i.e.: \"by researching this xxx bpo to me n, each manufacturing run will save: x capital cargo bays\".if they plug in a huge number, they'll see some savings. the clever ones will fiddle with the numbers and eventually find a number they like. others will find reference to the x/5.5 number and just use that. the smart few will run their own calculations and know what me they want before they start the research job."
"only an idiot looks for an i-win button in eve (closest thing is a supercarrier)did you know that the black ops portal is 54x more fuel intensive than the titan bride? (or jump bridges)"
"it says 5000s. i was pointing out, that is incorrect.have you got a piece of barbed wire shoved up you ass, or are you always like this?"
"the unfortunate thing about that is that i can fit a t1 version of the same ship with the same cloak and lock in about the same amount of time. i could handle loosing the insta-lock if they could live up to their description. i think not"
"quite right. i have never flown a black op's. i was training for a widow, off and on; but, never quite got myself into one.fuel? deep safe secure container's. set them up in the systems you use; and refill them once in awhile. bookmarks's, deep safes with storage, etc..., have all been in eve a long time; and a lot of people use them effectively.dropping a covert cyno, to put your black op's on grid? not going to work.i only use eft, to see how a ship fits; and what kind of ehp, align time, and dps it can get. just like anyone else. saves you a bit of isk, when you do finally decide to fit one.a single ecm fails to jam a ship under it's strength; so, i can't see it mattering, if 3 have stacking penalties. besides which, i've never read up on it; and you can't get a module that puts out 30 strength, that i'm aware of. most battleships don't exceed 26 points anyway; so my original statement, is correct in assessed value.i'm almost certain, if someone suggested a perfect fix; you would still stomp on their opinion, and go all elitist. you've posted contrary opinions; and opposed most everyone in this thread. perhap's you're just here to argue incoherently."
"personally, i think the instalock is good; and i'd be disappointed to see it go. i could lose the velocity modifier, and see a bit of a dps reduction; possibly, even lose a bit of armor/shields, in actual points.for that, i'd expect to see a gain, in the loss of holes in the resistances; and actual covert op's cloaking, rather than this fake cloak business. lose the abilty to go beyond 99% cpu reduction; for the sake of the insta-lock; and gain a bit of agility, as an added bonus. they're relatively quick already; but with the loss of dps, and armor, it would be nice. even a marginal 4% gain, would be fair. just don't tank the tank, too much.i also noticed, the slots assignement and powergrid/cpu are irregular; comparing the black op's of each faction, and their t1 counterparts. that would be the first thing, i'd look at; in terms of balancing the class, and trying to improve it."
"this post shows little to no understanding of the mechanics behind how these ships work.also, an all level v widow with 2 jam rigs and 4 signal dispersion amps in low will still only jam at about 15 strength, so i dont know where you got 26 from.regarding the covert cyno. they have to be scanning your exact spot at the exact time you light the cyno (60 second duration, 30 seconds if you're using a force recon). it doesnt show up in system overview, so they have no way to know where/when you've lit it. however thats only when moving.with regards to dropping on grid, think about what i said before you make yourself look even more ignorant.also lol doublepost"
"stop whining about the range, that will never ever happen. it was intended to be like this by ccp.regarding the fuel consumption, just make a suggestion for less fuel consumption. it doesn't need a bigger bay, just less consumption. and also no covert ops cloak, no way in hell :d"
"the general consensus is that the occupancy mechanic in factional warfare has little to no tangible impact on the game, which reduces participation in that area of fw to the die-hard few who run plexes for roleplay reasons, and those who use them to try and find small gang or solo pvp. neither group currently gains any real benefit from flipping a system.i propose the introduction of a new implant (name it something like 'datafeed interface') which would be cheaply available from the fw loyalty point stores, and would require cybernetics i to use. this implant would provide a moderate bonus to armour resistances, shield resistances, maximum speed, and sensor strength. it would only provide these bonuses while a player is a: a member of a faction warfare militia, and b: while he is in a lowsec system his militia currently holds occupancy of.this would be quite easily justifiable in-game by stating that the bunker in an occupied system broadcasts a constant stream of encrypted tactical data, which can be tapped by this implant. i'm not suggesting that the bonuses provided by this provide a significant boost, but to merely provide an actual mechanical advantage to taking and holding occupancy within a system."
"well captain's quarters should be on the test server really soon (well actually... it should've been there a week ago but they delayed it a bit).my guesstimate would be that 2-3 months after that it can be on the main server. keep in mind that cq is pretty barebones (just your character in a small room), and they said they'd develop on that over the famous :18months: so hopefully we'll eventually be allowed to interact with other avatars. but i wouldn't hold my breath for that.i'm looking forward to it but i try to keep my expectations very low because ccp have a history of promising rather more than they deliver (they even had a more extensive presentation of an older incarna last fanfest)as for ship customization they actually discussed that at this fanfest, you'll be able to put all sorts of designs like corp and faction logos on them. the current csm doesn't seem very keen on incarna (although the smarter ones are at least resigned to it) but i rather suspect that a lot more of their voter base are interested than they are willing to admit."
"this for the most part. of course, as long as 2 ships kill an enemy faster than a single one, people will try and bring more people than the enemy in order to maximize their success chance in important fights. however, if the sov fights were split between let's say 10 concurrent objectives instead of one single big one, you'd be much likely to see the 1000 man blob split into 10 100 man fleets, rather than pile every pilot in the same system.the current sov system simply makes blobs mandatory to either attack or defend.i for one i'm very much for activity based sov. i'm no game designers so i'm not saying the following would be a good idea, but what if the sov was an index based on number 'man-hours' spent in system x by uncloaked, undocked not in pos shields pilots of a certain corp/alliance/coalition? i think this system would emphasize constant presence in enemy territory, rather than assemble a huge blob for 3-4 hours every 2 days."
"the title missing xix (or drf if you may) from the list of the powers that corrupted eve."
"if i recall correctly, wasnt the anom devblog posted before fanfest? doesnt that therfore make this scenario impossible?"
"don't know about you but i don't let little things like physical impossibilities get in the way of a good story."
"couple things. ccp has stated they want conflict drivers. they want things worth fighting over and they want some space to be 'better' than others because once again, inequality does drive conflict and conflict is fun.previously truesec mattered (in some regions!) and there was a direct benefit to owning better space, it made generating income for your membership easier. the introduction of anomalies was designed to get more bang for your buck out of space and make it so it's not necessary to own large swathes of space in order to be effective. they wanted space to be used and this provided a mechanism for even crappy 0.0 space to have some kind of value where previously it really didn't. this change on one hand is a nod to conflict generation but implementation appears to be at odds with the original intention of making more 0.0 space worthwhile. now the idea of making it so better truesec space is ~better~ isn't a bad idea. better space should be better in terms of value and isk generation but the problem i see here is that while they made the best space moderately more valuable, they made mediocre to bad space nearly worthless in regards to value. why live in a constellation where it's back to the good ol' days in garbage space at all? they've dropped the bottom out and made owning that space worthless instead of \"worth less\". you see i don't agree with this list at all. well the first one is obvious but the rest, no. these changes don't introduce a new dynamic, they move space back to the pre-anomalies dynamic and reintroduced the concept of \"worthless space\" which we already experienced. i'd be much more comfortable with this if the goal were a little more balanced and kept some mechanism in place to make worthless space \"worth something\" which encourages people to use it. these changes appear to just correct a perceived imbalance that they never intended (great space no matter where you are) which is fine, but the original concept of making space worthwhile was a good one and shouldn't be fully revoked."
"according to ccp drf is fighting over an awesome region called geminate, due to its high security status and ... oh waiti like the whole \"entrance for newcomer alliance\", rings a bell from dominion's \"entrance for newcomer corporations\", which we all know how ended. any minor alliance/corporation without decent connections and supercapital fleet wont hack it in 0.0 no matter how much devs want it.ccp simply decided that their dominion project wasnt what they thought it will be in the long run ( no surprise here ) and decided to scrap it under another \"improvement of 0.0 space\" and a cover story about upcoming good fights for the \"good\" space."
"hey maroon if you're going to be edgy and use other colors you should probably pick one that's readable on a dark grey background"
"confirming that if your not making 100+ million isk/hr farming sanctums it means your making 0 isk/hr."
"ok what are you farming in a -.01 truesec system?"
"carebears ! seriously though i don't think it'll be as bad as people think,i think more of the nah sayers are just a knee jerk reaction without really looking at the changes and how they might work.people seem more concerned with their own individual wallets than having a game that works well.we survived np before we had anoms and plenty of 'worthless' space was well used,as i said before take the way cva ran provi as an example.with the plex boost and the supposed l4 nerf it should hopefully make null sec more attractive than empire,even the lower end systems.both balancing the risk v's reward and reducing the isk coming into game thus reducing market prices.it might also be interesting to see if larger alliances drop sov to save isk and then we have the possibility of attackers taking advantage of those sovless systems to cause havoc.i do agree it might not work out to plan but we shouldn't let fear of change rule our efforts to get a good,balanced,fun game"
"where is this \"lvl 4 nerf\" people keep referencing? they're buffing them if anything, removing the % chance of non kill missions and increasing the number of viable agents (which will make ninja loot/salvagers camping hubs much more difficult)"
"csm should do a barrel roll, go home and become a family man."
"as someone who actually uses my redeemer in combat whenever i can (which is still infrequently :() would really like to see a few changes made. don't really see the need for it to warp cloaked though.i'd like to see: - t2 resists (t2 ship bonuses in general improved) - longer jump range - nicer black ops skill bonus for all - bit of love for panthers / sins, definitely sins (fly redeemer myself and aside from the above issues i generally think it's ok) - a little unrelated, but slightly different icon for covert cyno mod from regular cyno mod would be nice too (have lost a rapier before cause of this - ab/mwd got the love they needed and tbh the risk [per individual ship] is less w/ those)as it is to get a real black ops gang going (not a bomber/recon briding bo's, but proper bos) you want at least 4 heavy dps bos (sorry sin :( ) since you really don't want to be sitting about in those expensive \"shoot me cause i have little tank\" ships for any amount of time. trying to get enough people to hop in what's currently a bit of a gimmicky expensive gank ship at the same time can be tricky (before you even consider timezone / rl issues).anyway, i fully support any action that will improve the plight of these poor, though amazing, ships."
"agreed! drones, again, is the only weapon system which has a mod affecting tracking and optimal, but nothing affecting damage."
"drones need love!"
"supported - but the easier thing to implement would be to make the sentry damage augmentor rig a drone efficiency augmentor for *all* types of drones - combat, utility, mining, and ew.keep the calibration as-is on it, as well."
"i really like the idea of rogue drones dropping drone implants."
"as long as they don't affect fighters or fighter-bombers."
"true. they should work along the lines of the distinctions made between drone skills and fighter skills (fighters and fbs are, technically, drones and fall under the same training category, and yet the skills modding drones do not affect fighters)."
"support."
"supported"
"sweet."
"\"bullet time\"like max payne with spaceships.supported."
"part 1 of 2 (im very very sorry!! :s)current server lag consists of a variety of different types of lag. yes this proposal doesnt fix all of them but it does offer a fix for one of the more annoying ones for players on the client side and thats module lag. as i can practically guarantee at least half of the players in fleet fights re-activate and resend module requests to the server when their modules stick and continuously re-cycle. the increased cycle times due to time dialation would reduce the amount of re-requests for modules, reducing the \"a**hole\" effect as bosse i think put it! lol!this is a pro-active fix to reduce the amount of re-requests by players in combat, thats the idea.yes it is true that previous experiences in opening the limit to higher fleet numbers have seen higher numbers than expected but this is not a linear thing... there is a limit to how many people can be rallied we just havent seen the top of that curve yet. it doesnt mean we should give up when the going gets tough. nothing easily attained is worth it! this proposal will help reduce emorage from module lag, which generally causes module re-activations/re-requests to the server thats unnecessary.so in summary yes this doesnt tackle module lag in a perfect world, but when do u ever experience a perfect world scenario in the real world? you dont!this proposal reduces the chance of emorage from module lag in large scale combat and therefore reduces the amount of re-requests for the same things in the server. plus with the reduction of the speed of battles you reduce the amount of necessary normal activations compared to a full speed battle.thats very true.. and it was never ment to!!! the same tactics to cause node death will still be possible. but.. and this is a biiig but, massive amounts of server requests by players will be extremely obvious in comparison to players genuinely waiting for their modules to cycle at the longer durations. if anything bosse could write an automatic program that can hunt down clients sending massive amounts of requests compared to a normal amount for a particular ship (as sc's will be putting out more requests to the server from fighters etc than an ecm bs for example.)what bosse wants to do with these people is up to him and ccp, but forcing a client dc with a re-logging cooldown timer i dont think would be that harsh bearing in mind what that person is trying to do.tbc..."
"part 2 of 2no, as i had said before the proposal helps fix module lag and reduce unnecessary re-requests. yes you could say that the reduction in re-requests might mean lag when jumping in to a new system would be reduced, but i doubt it would be abolished entirely.you do realise that this fix is designed to augment anything in the node that has a time based element in its calculations... that includes de-agression timers.. so yes dps will be reduced but everything combat related scales to the same degree. so you would have more time to kill that super because it would take longer to de-agress.sure, thats if you want to jump a massive fleet into a less lagged system that it would normally be, but the amount of request sent and needed to be recieved by that fleet to actively start pvp'ing is a lot more than the fleet already loaded and on grid.. so current strategic decisions on jumping in still applies. the increased module time would partially re-ballance this to what the original game mechanics were intended to do, and thats what we all want!! the only people who dont want that are people who want to carry on using metagaming/node-crashing advantages they shouldnt really have in the first place! currently in massive lag fleet battles your ability to pvp is irrelevent. its almost purely guesswork whether you'd live or die, and you're totally at the mercy of random elements that 99% of people dont understand and cannot predict.so at the moment yes its a blob fest that means if u blob bigger u win.but the less lag affects players ability to pvp the more skill and battlefield tactics trumps blob size.im done now, thank god!! :s"
"good idea is good"
"10.0"
"go big or go home."
"i support this on the general principle that most videogame 3d models have the ability to scale them up or down readily attached to their code. if ccp agrees with this proposal it should fall under one of the \"little things\" and be very simple to apply and roll into a larger list of updates. simple and reasonable. i would say that carriers in practice shouldn't be tremendously larger than battleships, but the fact is that the stats in game of a carrier reflect a ship that is quite some measure larger and more powerful than a battleship, so they simply should be larger. carriers should rival dreadnoughts in size, and supercarriers should stand as a halfway step in size (or third-way?) between dreads/carriers and titans. if a dreadnought is 0.1, and a titan is 1.0, then a carrier should be no less than 0.1, and a supercarrier should be no less than 0.35 in terms of scale factor."
"supported completely."
"supported."
"...supported"
"supported!it`s really annoying."
"yes. support this completely..... spent about an hour trashing crap...most of it was rookie ships around the galaxie"
"yes i know i have to go back and trash all my rookies"
"i could write a thesis on why you are ******ed but cba.goons are annoying but not out to ruin the game, you are astoundingly stupid.not supported.however, i would support your termination. (in game ofc)"
"yeah, i was wondering what \"eleged\" meant...honestly, i've brought some cheese along to go with the whine. the election happened, votes were cast, somebody got more votes than somebody else. i didn't get enough votes to get in... boo frickin hoo.this was one of the biggest voter turnouts of any csm election. that means that this csm is the most representative of the eve population. if you don't like the way the the most representative csm turned out, perhaps you should get involved and run yourself next time.as for goons posting in f&i, and then the ah, the csm is effectively a filter for ccp - if ccp employees had to wade through all the bad ideas that get posted there (over and over again), they'd have no time to actually implement anything. goons shutting down the bad/game breaking ideas (which is what i've observed) simply makes less noise for the csm to wade through so they can focus on the occasional idea with some merit.one could call it \"academic rigour\"."
"@oppeople have voted he got elected there's nothing to say now.no matter if you like it or not, if you wanted to do something you should have done it when elections time was up.this kind of thread is ridiculous!if you want to do something now the best you"
"i also don't thrust the mittani, or you, or that bearded woman, or the pope, or even myself (an obvious poasting alt if there ever was one). that is because this is still eve online, and there is nothing wrong with machiavellian politics. even if the defendant was chosen just because he is in gs, it's still a choice from a large enough player base, thus democratically sound."
"i still can't decide if i am amused by the very concept of a \"petition of distrust\" or an \"alleged chairman\". perhaps i don't have to decide."
"have an eve client logged off after a lack of activity for a certain number of hours.thinks this proposal would help with:- reduce lag in jita, a huge portion of jita's population is inactive.- inactives building up on gates.- safety to individuals who fail to log off for one reason or another.- makes sure afk cloakers are at least semi active.i definitely don't support this being a 30 minute timer or something. i'm recommending it be a 2-4hr timer. it isn't so short that people can safely fail to log off and the game save them. it also shouldn't be so short that basic automatic activities become unusable like auto piloting.there are obviously some issues to support both sides of this, but with some balancing of the timer it could definitely do more good then harm."
"i like the idea. works for ccp too with less load."
"i think the complaint will come from afk haulers. some of those hauls can be a multi-hour affair. as fun as it is to haul a freighter full of tritanium 30 jumps, most do that afk. as long as it differentiates afk autopilot from just sitting there doing nothing afk... seems good."
"create more uses for macro, and there will be more of them. not supported."
"i would say: 15minwhy hours? and then you see bm's feast and cloaked stuff orbiting - see the difference?they are not inactive they are just flying but how make the difference between someone just exploring/scouting and someone orbiting to avoid being kicked?requests client/server etc, if that stuff was that easy to implement they would do it but they can't add another problem source that will not end the first one."
"i would rather the image of the pilot would get a grey outline or something when they go inactive for 45 minutes or so.... i don't think forcing them to log off is really necessary."
"do it!"
"good idea."
"good idea."
"1st: in all honesty this post seems rather irrelevant to me, i do not see how it would effect game play at all with the exception of putting yet another isk/time sink into the game... and while ccp has recently done away with some of them, we still have plenty more to go around.2nd: i think it would be unfair to older smaller corps to charge for holding onto a name more and more as time progresses. there are plenty of pvp, pve, and industrial corps that contain 5 to 10 members, and have and will for a long long time. they simply do not want a large corp, so they do not have one.however, i will go with, there are several probably thousand inactive corps in game. eventually overtime if something is not done, we will simply run out of useful names for our corps. thus as someones else mentioned i would be in favor of a timer, the timer lasts a years time, ie the last member to log off for the corp a year ago this second, day ect, would be the last person holding the corp together. so essentially, the corp is dead as none of the members are active. all assests the corp has should be divided automatically between the players based on estimated worth including stuff in impound if sufficent isk is avalible between the corp members accounts to pay for the impound blls, and cash in teh corp wallet.once done then the corp's members get auto ejected, and then the corp is killed off.the reason for the split in assests is simple.... we all know players who were gone for a long time only to return at some year or 2 later date when ccp improved something they could not stand. they worked hard for what ever thier corp had and loosing such things would be a major turn off to them.s3"
"if this is an actual problem (and i don't think it is), i'd attack it from the opposite direction.if a corp has no open offices and no members have logged in for over a year, someone who wants to reuse the name or ticker can pay concord a nominal bribe, 1b isk perhaps, to liquidate the old corp."
"well the idea is simple, pilots can use ships, wrecks, asteroids, stations and other stuff as cover making combat tactically more interesting."
"something like this would cause the server to **** itself."
"this would be great for gameplay... in a single-player environment. alas, that is not eve. the server chokes when calculating the lifespan and flight path of missiles in large fleet battles, can you imagine the server calculating line-of-sight cover bonuses for ships at the same time? players currently abuse missile launchers to deliberately cause lag, you know for a fact that they would set up defensive screens of anchored modules @ a pos and then put their blob behind it, giving the node an aneurism while they were at it.... and then they'd spam ungroupped missile launchers just to spite the server. great idea unfortunately the hardware and social realities regarding it make it a big no-no. no support here, sorry."
"hmm i was wondering why eve would not be able to implement this while black prophecy already has done this, which works fine with 20+ ships in a small area."
"because in eve there are often many more than 20 ships in a small area.(also black prophecy isn't made up of decade-old code stacked on top of decade-old code like eve is)"
"just pointing out that it is possible with 20+ ships in another mmo. for me immersion is breaking when i can fire through 2 asteroids or ships and hit the one behind or better yet shoot my lasers through a station. i do not think a line of sight has to be calculated in the missile case, as an object in space is created it simply hits the object in front of another. as i see it only the collide mechanism between objects has to be rewritten, which can be difficult but not impossible, for there is one active now. if this collide mechanism contributes to a lot of lag it would be more difficult, but i don't think this is the case here. for how many collisions take place during a battle that contribute to lag, now that would be an interesting question regarding the implementation of cover."
"20+ is one thing, but this is eve. 2000+ would be a more relevant number to quote in some battles, this would need to work well with at least 1000 though, and the server breaks around that level as it is. not supported."
"you seem to forget that a collide mechanism between 2 objects in space already exists. it would be interesting if lag is contributed by this mechanism if so rewrite it and maybe add the cover mechanic as well."
"the collision mechanics will apply to the guy flying into something. they won't affect the two hundred maelstroms locking him and sending a volley of 1400mm at him. with cover mechanics, suddenly those 200 maelstroms are affected by the 50 wrecks on the field, the 300 ships (red and blue) between them and the target (because if you bring in cover, chances are you bring in screening too) and all of a sudden the server has thousands more things to keep track of. it falls over too soon as it is, a cover system would be truly horrible."
"not supported because of lag issues but the core idea is sound - it's damned stupid seeing ships shooting through a space station to hit something on the other side.*edit*implementation idea - use some kind of shadow casting to see what shots get 'blocked'?"
"whose definition?please do this. i'll stick a carrier in npc corps so i can get 15mins of free aggression as often as i want."
"your reading comprehension fails jones. i didn't say the person docking into the carrier or the carrier get kill rights on anyone, i'm saying everyone aggressed to the docking ship suddenly has 15 minute kill rights on the carrier too. that said, it's the most complicated of the options, the first two simpler methods are better i think.as for cheating, it's an exploit because it's doing something with game mechanics that were not intended. it is cheating because it renders you completely impervious to counter attack. you attack targets at will, get into trouble, instantly dock and there isn't anything anyone can do about it. it's no different than if you found a way to glitch a cloaking device so you could lock and attack while remaining cloaked."
"based upon how you've (the 'you' is important here) defined exploit, i'd say the reason ccp hasn't been responding to your petitions is because they define 'exploit' quite differently. if this really was an exploit per the ccp definition, the people that have been doing this since carriers were released over 5 years ago would have long since been banned and the 'exploit' fixed. just because you disagree with it, don't believe it makes for 'fair play' (fair play in eve, of all things), or can't find a counter to it (of which there are several) does not make it an exploit.want to know what real exploiting looks like? leave fw and go to 0.0."
"the last big exploit i remember reading about was in wh space. people were getting perfect turrets (ac that hit for full damage at 249km). before that it was pandemic legion cheating with local hacks or some crap involving a monkey.the largest one i cam remember occuring was the free moon goo exploit that went on for years.before that, the whole t20 tinfoil, preferential drops and insider information on game mechanics.as for the hot swapping of ships using a cha, its not an exploit, its just bad game design. it was bad in lowsec, but there was always a slim chance you could bump the carrier off station, or just don't pvp on stations. the ability of the orca to project this limp wristed tactic into empire while hiding under concord's skirt is terrible."
"as of the incursion 1.4 patch...sebiestor: still screwed.intaki: still screwed."
"ccp should have something like a contest for tattoos, plus hair dues? what do you think."
"maybe...if it was judged in the same way as the recent ship design contest: players voting to select finalists, ccp selecting the winners.wouldn't necessarily solve this issue. would give me an official route to submit my own re-creations of old tattoos through, if it comes to that, but i think the only chance of such a thing being among the winners would be if submitted as a complete pack. the contest rules might only allow individual submissions, however."
"i thought you were on zeros side in this argument.or any other argument for that matter. zero says ccp doesnt control the game. you say ccp is attempting to break the game to stop you. youre contradicting each other. the fact is that ccp will change the game, not break it, to save the game if they determine thats what is necessary.it wont be the csm. it wont be forum warriors. it wont be trolls, such as zero, with their lies, fake logic, low intellect and overabundance of posting. it will be ccp. ccp making the final call to preserve the game, and their income, and you can pound your tiny fists on the wall of reality to no effect. this is not the real world. this is ccps world.regarding your comments on inferiority: seriously? you can look at your group and call another inferior? all you have is quantity with a very low percentage of that quantity processing any quality. and of those that can be considered to have desirable game qualities, there are even fewer worth having a conversation with unless one is very, very drunk. youre a core of good enough surrounded by the slow witted dregs of society. the only thing you have to fluff your egos is mutual appreciation.-windjammer"
"please note the comment im about to make is completely without sarcasm. i love this post. on several levels. im looking forward to more just like it over the next year. thanks for the chuckle, mits.-windjammer"
"you are lying in order to troll, yet again. readers can tell by the fact that, yet again, you're not actually quoting anything i've said. so far, without fail, every single time you do that, you're trolling. what i actually said in post 94 is: and: quoting for the delicious megairony."
"i hear tale that the devs are looking at ways to improve bookmark efficiency, reduce lag, etc. here is a thought.imagine: bookmarks/folders can be owned by players, corps, or alliances. corp/alliance leadership can determine who can access or edit these marks/folders these bookmarks are all stored server side - in a single place. as such, updates to bookmarks are immediately available to those who can access them. this completely eliminates the need to even \"copy\" bookmarks into cans. for security reasons, if a player leaves a corp or alliance, their access to those bookmarks inherently goes away. additionally, short of a player flying to those corp marks and making their own personal bookmarks for those locations, a corp/alliance could also prevent normal \"copying\" of those marks (the old way). personal bookmarks remain the same, but just need to be made more efficient. ability to \"share\" bookmarks with your alts - rather than \"copy\".just some thoughts ....cheers.marne"
"agreed. certain questions or decisions that ccp wants the community to take part in can be enquired by direct votes. that gives a better result on what the community likes."
"less than 10% of the eve playerbase could be arsed to vote on something that affects everyone.. and that was the largest turnout in history. how is this going to help at all?"
"way to break immersion. obtuse isd members writing about csm as if it were ic is bad enough."
"i may have a simple solution for ccp to consider. as i believe the author is not so much worried about her mouse dieing as she is about the shear time sink required on this.ccp could probably easily add ---> keep exsisting routes <---- as a check box, when switching products on a factory. as for the storage facilities and luanch pads, they could have a simple create route, delete route, and add in ---> create multi-product route <--- with say an increase in link total m3 as it has to account for all manner of possible products and combinations there of.just my .02 isk.s3"
"nice story, but ppl cynoing in show in in local too ?"
"fixed like warp on d-scan under \"x\" distance?"
"there is a reason why the population of null is 11% and wh is 2%. and high is 80% of the population. it's because they want to feel safer. taking the wh and 0.0 comparison, both make good money and same pvp rules and what not. but no one wants to deal with the local delay bull****. if they did, they would move to wh where they wouldn't get their sov systems taken."
"local is fine, it doesn't need to be fixed because it isn't broken."
"the sansha incursions has enraged the other pirate fanctions, and they too are now on the offensive to drive out the capsoleers who have invaded their space. guristas, angels, blood raider, serpentis, and drone incursions will now occur throughout nullsec and lowsec. with the increased war brought on by the pirates concord has sent out agents to nullsec to help curb these incursions. in retaliation the pirates have sent out agents to combat concord's new police actions.what we get:* pirate faction \"sansha like\" incursions in nullsec, and lowsec. adding in new pirate faction capitol ship bpc's (carrier, dreadnought, super carrier), and new pirate faction capitol ship class modules, fighters, fighter bombers.* new concord agents level 1-5 in nullsec space that give missions specifically in nullsec against the pirates.* new pirate faction agents level 1-5 in nullsec space giving missions against concord in nullsec.with the expansion of concord forces and agents concord will need to cut down on some spending to pay for this expansion into pirate space. all pirate bounties will be reduced by 50% across eve high/low/nullsec. lp points for completed missions will increase to help alleviate the reduction in income for players."
"+1 support. would like to add that any system with an incursion in it would turn off all moon mining. also level 5 mission arcs that would require capitol ships to complete, and yes you would fight pirate/concord capitols using the new sleeper ai.not too "
"no. you want lvl5s in -1 sec to totally crash concord lp value?pirate lp are already lucrative enough as is. no need to crash the market to make the rich richer."
"concord lp already crashed. missions in player owned space would be a nice way to help make low truesec space actually worth living in i guess."
"having -1sec lvl5s paying 150k a pop will crash it further. it's not worth living in because of the yerr-ness, change anything else and it still won't be worth living in. fixes nothing, while bringing down incursion site running as collateral."
"the idea is to bring more people to 0.0/lowsec, and flesh out the incursion model to include the other pirate factions. if the only thing you are hung up on is your little piece of isk pie being shared then present and alternative to concord funding players to fight the incursion.by no means is concord set in stone, it is just the most reasonable faction to pick since they are the only ones to hand out bounties for pirate npc kills. tweaking bounties and lp is just the sort of thing ccp likes to do when giving out new content. the current direction they're going to remove isk faucets would make this idea more reasonable. spread out the isk potential, and not make more."
"i think low and nul sec should have some very good missions in there, something to really get the toons to go in there.we need something that will get players want to go to low sec, like very good r&d missions or better rewards for mission (better than the ones they have). maybe later that special t~shirt for you toon character."
"more stuff should be in null sec for a draw, agents with missions would allow supporting more players in the same system. and add variety, instead of the same sanctums or whatever else. missions with stories.but... have a agent be generated in a systems with a station, and have them upgradable to get to the higher desired level (quality based on truesec). maybe have them a different faction from existing ones of local npc settlers and residents of null sec who are outside the bounds of any of the 4 main empires, having some kind of unique rewards in a lp store that can't be had by the many navy's of empire (and vise vesia). being that beyond the borders of their space its not like the main empires are going to have any vested interest in spending resources to protect people who are not their own, or giving rewards to those who do.also add to that, have the agent be customizable by whoever owns the station, race, bloodline, and name."
"are you aware that concord missions existed in the past and were removed because people running them was recovering security status too fast?pirating has already very little consequences. you want to make it even easyer?"
"how about deploying the patch on a test server to see if their are any problems before you deploy to tranquility?"
"you know, its sooo crazy it might even work!!!!:d :dunfortunately they do and it doesnt work anywhere near as well as they hope it does.sadface!"
"so far, i have four production colonies each producing two different p4 specialized commodities (ie: integrity response drones, nano-factories, etc.).i noticed during hauling and importing the p1 commodities that the capacity of the launchpad is just not enough for the p1 stuff that i put into them. usually i just put in enough p1 stuff to last at least half a day which is well over launchpad's limit of 10,000m3. i know i could use the customs office to hold the excess, but i don't want to be bothered with having to constantly monitor 4 different production planets to see when i could start importing the excess to continue production since each ship load of p1 stuff is carefully measured to produced at least half of the p4 components needed for final production. and generally, i don't like my measurements to be disrupted by something as simple as a launchpad's capacity.so, can you guys please upgrade the launchpad capacity to something like 15,000m3 or at least give us the option to upgrade the launchpads ourselves as we would with the links?"
"as i see it, launches are there for low skill pi, having more skills obviously allows for upgraded cc and thus a space port. to upgrade the cc to have the launchpad having the most cargo would make the other two pointless. i would recommend re-planning your planets to have materials routed differently and stored in other places.it works fine for my planets, i'll usually have a space port for imported materials and another for exporting.don't take offense to this, but this seems more of a \"gimmie this\" rather then an actual thought out idea to changing how pi work. i never had a problem, i just calculated an amount to run reactions on a planet, and dumped that much in. everything being made, went into a 2nd storage place. so it's more of a \"deal with it\" issue. sorry"
"firstly look at the capacity he is talking about he means spaceports not launchpadssecondly he is talking about production planets not extraction planets so routing is not so much of an issue.to go from a p1 up to a p4 requires a fair amount of capacity and it would be a darn site easier to have larger spaceports instead of having to drop some material in one,some in another etcdont support just increasing the capacity but an option to have a double capacity at appropriate cpu/pg does appeal"
"same here, using 2 space ports or 1+stock center only for stuff transit between extractors/processors but i wouldn't say no to some space port capacity increase at the same time you upgrade your command center. (double it at lvl5 skills)"
"no, the capacity should be decreased probably swapped with storage to make that useful."
"bite the bullet and join the rest of new eden in using dual launchpads for your p1>p4 production planets? it works and let's you do 24h of p4 production.although having said that, larger launchpads would be hella sexy."
"that would be nice, wouldn't it?sigh..."
"logic? in my eve?"
"i had really been hoping those were real. i mean, look at all that iteration!"
"what i support:store passwords: please, this would make my wh jobs so much easier.t3 ships with no skill loss: great"
"gogo"
"the past csm didn't represent a lot of players, and the current one shouldn't be considered a absolute god of them neither. the players are the players, no one but the players are them.null sec has few stations as is in the lot of it, the author of the thread picked up the most densely packed regions, hardly be considered a measure of all null sec.how is a space empire supposed to exist without stations, are we to consider npc's the only ones permitted to do so? how about each player makes free space what they want of it, with no buggards telling others what should be. stations are the one place which things are safe, it seems odd to make sov 0.o space stations different then any other. how about have all stations attackable, let no one be safe! you want to empire war and loot a null sec station, null sec can loot your base wherever it is."
"good for flavor. worth a look."
"didn't they talk about doing this very thing at fan fest a few weeks ago?"
"ccp is about to install new isk syncs from what has bean said at the last fanfest so why not the ships personalisation?"
"u fail at understanding everything0/10"
"i was actually thinking of a capital neut being introduced, using the current capital energy emissions skill for prereq. lose the bonus and give them to all cap's. 1000 per cycle, with a slightly longer cycle.tracking bonus is overkill and op. i don't support that.edit: i don't support the +1 high slot either. a dread doesn't need siege mode in a cap fight, so it doesn't need the module. replace with cap neut. +1 high slot can give cloaking on a siege module fit dread, which is too much."
"****warning below is a long post.***background: due to recent conversations with some of my more industrialist friends, it has been brought to my attention that ccp intends to enhance the industrialist side of things, with a store front, name branding of ships and items and the like.apparently this was all gathered from their watching/viewing of fan fest blogs, vids, forums and the like. oddly despite selling literally billions of isk a day, making stuff, doing pi and the like, they seem to have more time to read such things then i do.maybe its my life style, but enough rambling.......obviously as most industrialists tend towards, the topic changed to bpos research, bpcs and of course invention. out of which several really good points were brought up.1. what good is name branding anything if at the end of the day its still the same old ship/item anyone else can sell?the answer is of course, for those of us more pirate like then others (like myself.) i know who the easy, rich, fat targets are. aside from that not a damned thing.so over the last few days i have thought about that, and being one of those that have been around a long time and having million of sp to my name, i have the same problem many do... training skills just for the sake of having them, never intended to use them. even with a year and <U+FFFD> break i have 60 million sp, and damned sure it would be 90 million or better if i had not taken the year and <U+FFFD> break.so i have come up with some suggestions to do the following:1. make name branding useful:step 1. new skill  science  tech ii bpo creation: give the ability to create a tech ii bpo out of a tech i using the invention method. i am thinking something like a 25x training skill, and could only be trained if... if you have say 80 million sp to start with, most of which dedicated to industrial and science.its really very simple, you take your well used and heavily research bpo for that nice fat isk making domi, raven or other tech ii possible ship and stick it into the invention slot.at level 1 of the skill, you have a 5% chance of making a perfect (researchable) tech ii bpo, a 5% chance of making a (locked) tech ii bpo of poor to moderate quality, a 40 % chance of absolutely nothing happening, and a 40% chance of loosing that perfectly good bpo.at each level of the skill your chances of making either a researchable bpo, or a locked bpo increase by 5%, thus at lvl 5 you would have a 25% chance to create either, and only 25% chance of total catastrophe. this of course should be possible to mod further using decryption and other invention related items. i was thinking somewhere around a 70% total to make a tech ii bpo either locked or researchable.researchable bpo: one that can be researched as normal at any lab, anytime as you see fit.locked bpo: its stats are its stats. its like a copy in that regard, but at least it can be used indefinitely.of course this still did nothing for name branding, but at least it gave the industrialists something to do with their skill points."
"step 2: new skill and research options  science  tech ii bpo modification: gives the ability to rewrite some of a rsearchable tech ii bpos attributes, at certain labs, preferably in empire only and only with the assistance of a research agent. or maybe with a special lab only in low sec/0.0.the skill: the skill allows a person to change attributes of one item, and give them to another section of the same item. as an example, take your average tech ii ship. it has hull, armor, shields, cargo bay, drone bay, engines, etc, etc, etc... you could look at the bpo, and just like you can adjust the attributes of your character, you could adjust the attributes of the bpo, take some off the shields and give them to armor thus making it have higher armor points then before, take some off the engines and give them to the power core thus giving it a better overall amount of power, the possibilities are limitless.again the skill should be reserved for those with 80 million + sp, and most of that dedicated to science and industrial areas. again make it a super long training time. its worth it after all.each level of the skill allows one point to be removed from any one area, and given to another area. only 1 change should be allowed per bpo ever!!!! so if you do it early on, that's it your done. you really should wait till that skill is trained to max to change a bpo.(i know i can hear some screaming.... but wait that will unbalance the game!!! ~ shut up for a minute. i am not done.)obviously i already discussed research options above, but after further consideration... everyone has complained about the lack of things to do in low sec... and by god this seems like one place you could kill 2 birds with one stone. make it a research lab in low sec only, boom now the industrialists have to go to low sec, at least occasionally. make the research on such changes hyper long as well. ie say 10 days per point changed, so 50 days total for such research.step 3: new skill  modified bpo construction  industrial skill  allows an industrialist, with a modified tech ii bpo to actually build such an item. again hyper long training time, chance based, allows a max of a 50% chance of the bpo being followed exactly, a 20% chance it will still make some adjustments to the area(s) it was altered in, a 20% chance it will not follow the bpo at all, and simply make a tech ii item like any other tech ii item, and a 10% chance it will make the biggest ball of crap ever seen, ie a totally useless version of a tech ii item.ok so now, we have a viable reason to have name branding, but ya know what, those of us who seldom if ever do industry are not going to simply give up our pirate/merc/pve/pvp like lives and go research something. dun be ascared i got something for us as well.step 4: ok so those new tech ii ships and parts are rolling off the self like clock work, hundred of them go out into space, but wait i just bought one and aside from having crappy shields on my all new tech ii apoc, geddeon, domi or what ever, i am not able to use that ultra great power core yet, or that enhanced armor.new skill  modified ship command (possibly multiple skills for each race class and the industrial ships.) again this should be a hyper long skill set, dedicated to those with 80 million + sp, and obviously in this case those with a strong lean towards either combat, or ship skills. as an added benefit, this skill should make use of the modified ship, and improve upon it at max level.lvl 1 would allow for 21% use of the modification(s). lvl 2 42% use of the modification. ending with lvl 5 a 104% use of the modification. so lets say your flying that uber tech ii domi, and your preferred ship building has created a ship that has crap shields, normal everything else, but a bigger drone bay. at 1st you would be able to fly it, but aside from the crap shields, you would not see the bigger drone bay. as you skilled up you could use the full extent of that drone bay, plus 4% more then the design called for.this gives those combat oriented players a reason to stick around, and gives everyone something to strive for. it gives the hyper older players a slight edge over those who are simply just old.i know some are concerned about lag effects, but if they intend to implement branding reasonably this should create no more lag then that will, and worst case scenario, they can always ditch the new turret effect for a while.s3"
"basically what i've been hearing from you guys is that you think the bonuses don't make sense. okay, how does the ship slowing down in space without reversing thrusters make sense? or anything else that doesn't conform to physics? the higher fittings costs denote additional functions, so why not be able to do what other known modules can already do, which is not out of known physics (phones have camera functions now for instance).i would love to fix the guns themselves, but ccp isn't going for it. what i'm trying to do is provide a means for the ships to be able to actually function given the gimped guns. from a strategic standpoint, it does make sense--melee or close-range fighter needs to be tougher to make it to the opponent;long range fighter with weaker weapons than other long range fighters compensates by at least being harder to kill.besides, i think an addition to the original post may ease your minds:*all bonuses apply to base stats only."
"i'm not active here much, but i keep seeing and hearing people talk about mines and i see and hear all the shutdown responses.i hear:1. it causes lag because of floods and floods of mines.2. people drop them at gates and cause massive grief.3. they're overpowered.....i bet these are the main 3 objections i hear. these are crappy objections! all of these can easily be corrected.1. if it's causing lag, then limit the total number of mines. (this is easy to explain) a mine uses a type of em field to hide itself, this same field causes too many mines in proximity to each other to simply stop working. there ya go. a eve-world simplification to stop both lag on the server and explain why there aren't thouseands of them everywhere.2. mines are hostile intities: gates shoot them on site. solved.3.they were overpowered because they were hundreds and hundreds....see number 1. not overpowered anymore.whip out an old copy of homeworld to see how mines work if you are in doubt.on to other things....booby traps.anchoring should let us deply hidden passive defenes for mining vessels... i.e.how about stuff like:1. cap suckers. (deployed in astroid belts)2. directed gravity well generators (based on their own cap and power, they could hold a ship up against a rock for a \"defined\" amount of time rendering it disabled for a bit)3. repulse blasts--knock a ship 30k away with a blast of some kindi'll never accept \"we can't do it\" as a reply. it can all be done. i'd like to hear \"we're considering that again\" rather than just an outright rejection of decent space combat tech. there is zero technical reason why it can't be done for this game, it's just a matter of choosing whether or not to do it.faxx"
"please explain how a group selected from such a high voter turnout election* could possibly be considered \"unrepresentative\"? i don't understand it myself.*relative to previous elections"
"by definition, a representative sample reflects the composition of the parent group, which was specified as \"the playerbase as a whole\"increasing the sample size does not automatically make it more representative or reduce bias and can in fact make it less representative and more biased if sampling is conducted without due carehth"
"whine less, vote more - next time. we're already pretty united; the commentary about a 6/3 split or whatever is uninformed nonsense. eve has so many obvious problems with it that there's no need to advocate controversial positions; we can find common ground that the entire csm can rally behind."
"you hush up with your 'logic' and your 'sense,' and let the angry people be paranoid."
"the best thing about anti-nc people being smug is that they just got nerfed and most of nc and goon-wi-test space is sitting pretty happy, yet sing the praises of ccp for \"nerfing the nc.\" @ you"
"come now, don't go spoiling their fun with reason or facts."
"and here i thought you were ignoring this because you were smarter than the troll known as zero. i stand corrected and a little disappointed. i hope youll perform better in the upcoming year. i was anticipating some genuine entertainment as you seemed to be a bit more intelligent than your predecessor.write to support@tentonhammer.com let them know that if you cant believe in the credibility of their writers, their site becomes devalued.-windjammer"
"well, at least you're dedicated."
"[guild chat]\"hey man, darkenderrr did you see data-mined loot screenshots from the upcoming raid patch?\"\"no way link me to it\"\"[tentonhammer link]\"\"**** you man\"\"???\"\"there's no way this **** is real, it's on tth. everyone knows they write nothing but fake ****\""
"i'd be a lot more on board with this change if it upped good systems but left the worst systems upgradable to have sanctums (at high cost) if you wanted to develop it enough. i want to see people living in that garbage space and not in empire which i thought was the point. you can surely have better space without reducing the value of not 'better space' to near zero."
"we already have too much isk coming into game and not enough going out , just increasing the incoming isk will hinder the game even worse than the proposed changes."
"this isn't increasing incoming isk, the patch would reduce it from standing levels as opportunity is removed(in theory, in reality people will adjust and the isk flow will likely remain constant). the reduction of isk in this game and the introduction of economic scarcity is vitally important, i'm just not convinced this is the best way to accomplish that."
"it really isn't individual wallets, it is the amount of isk alliances and corps spent on systems based on the new mechanics only to have them changed six months later. for instance, my corp built a station and fully upgraded a system mostly as a location for members to rat so they could afford to continue throwing ships at the drf forces we have been fighting for the better part of a year now. now, this near-hundred billion isk investment will not pan out and will negatively impact our corporation and many other smaller corps like ours for months to come. that was a lot of isk that would have been better spent on drugs and hookers, let alone something useful, because ccp changed their mind far too late. older corps already were established in more neg space and had funds stashed away that can be blown on ccp's mistakes. this little adventure did little more than to give hope to smaller, newer corps only to throw it in their face as soon as they had fully invested in it.as always, game changes favor the wealthy, older players at the expense of those less fortunate.drive conflict my ass. the smaller guys would've been better off to move to take better space if ccp would've left the game as it was a year ago."
"if mittani and seleene do not spend their time educating the devs on the mechanics and reality of null sec, i will feel like my votes were wasted. if they can convince someone to iterate on sov, i will do a happy dance.if you didn't vote for them, they aren't representing you. hths."
"too low contrast; didn't read."
"op wanted to use the 'moron' tag but could not spell it correctly."
"as stated: visuals- supported. mechanics- denied. that said, i feel there is another distinct benefit to having ships reach their 'warp bubble' speed almost instantaneously upon entering warp: at that speed, we can make it much harder to see ourselves warping through planets and other celestial objects, something that has always bothered me but i let it go as a necessity of the current warp system.update your original post and edit out the mechanical changes and you have my thumbs up. at most in terms of mechanics i'd support is having ships reach maximum warp speeds the moment they enter warp (and thus having maximum warp speeds re-evaluated to maintain game balance)"
"paging team bff to this thread!"
"immersion is big part of game.4k large and 500m is obvious difference well maybe not to guy that named them supercaps that dude have some issues."
"support"
"supported."
"you don't understand how pricing works. hint: it is no more difficult to produce a dramiel than it is to produce a worm. supported. what's funny is the opponents of nerfing dramiels are using the same non-arguments that precede every obvious, needed nerf...generic stuff that could be applied to literally everything."
"while dramiels should defiantly be better then tech 1 ships (and faction), it should probably brought in line closer to other faction frigs.as it is dramiels stand as overpowered compared to the others, or the only one that doesn't suck major dongs, considered how much it is used. looking at the stats the big difference between drams and other faction frigs is the base speed (470 to 300), make them all closer to interceptor speeds of the respective race then that would do allot (mabey 50 km slower, so that the frigs that are specialized just for speed have some edge in that category), being the preferred role of a elite frig (is something small not going to speed tank and be fast? add to that gurista need a equal boast to the damage of missiles to that of other frigs, instead of being gimped with half the slots and no base boasts to firepower."
"war decs need a refresh."
"i'm not quite sure how it works for alliances, but corporate war declarations have to be initiated via vote. the minimum voting period is 24 hours, which means that the war declaration wouldn't be issued until 24 hours after the vote (even if one person has 100% of the shares) and another 24 hours after that.i think it's just \"push butan\" with alliances, which would be horrible. \"oh hey bob, lookie here, a freighter carryin' officer mods! war dec the corp!\""
"it should be possible to render the own ship little bit differentso even if im out 30km i want to be able to see my ship (yea even a frigatte). i mean the own ship-size when scrolling out should be nonlinear to the rest of the universelets say the graphic is lying to me and rendering the ship bigger as it is.the ship is almost any time the center of my universe, so if its minimum size is always seeable for me, its just more comfortablethis can be an additional select box in the grafic-settingsgreets flower"
"oi, biatch, i resemble that remark. why you no love us no more on topic, op is a moron. mittens only took 1700 goon votes, meaning he would have still gotten into the csm even if not one single goon voted for him (christ, he would have only just narrowly missed on the chair even). think on that."
"i want my long intaki hippy-hair back ccp!"
"minnies will get all their piercings and tats... intaki are gallente though, which means they'll just get ignored..."
"eve has never been a sandbox, i don't know what you're smoking. minecraft is a real sandbox."
"qft heres a person who understands.-windjammer"
"i say ccp controls the game, zero says the players do. its that simple, really. he even goes so far to say that the players control the game so thoroughly that the players are going to smack ccp on the nose with a rolled up newspaper and tell them to stop chewing on our slippers. (a quote from zero in the first paragraph of post 2 of this thread). and that isnt even a reference to all the players. no. its a reference to a newly elected and heavily biased csm which doesnt in anyway speak for the majority of players. like ccp isnt going to look at that, pat the little miscreants on their heads and send them packing so the grownups can plan how to change the game.zero, dedicated to his name, head firmly in the sand, crying out there is no gravity, i can fly.-windjammer"
"i can't believe this is actually an issue for so many people. so what if the vherokior have slit eyes? its not like you cannot model around them. i didn't have to try all that hard to make this toon look attractive, despite what revoiution suggests about the bone structure. the charecter editor is pretty powerful -- sure there is an overall theme to the various races' looks but there are plenty of ways to make any of the races have an attractive avatar. i'm actually glad the vherokior turned out this way, i like the look far better then the khanid or the jin-mei"
"i didn't vote for you last election. i wish i had.please, i am begging you. do whatever you can!"
"at first i was peeved that i could not make the face i did before (as with my main, goodbye long intaki hair), but now i am mostly ok with it.why the support? i don't like that no approximation of the characters i had before is possible."
"for everyones information: op is a notorious troll, and has brought up this topic before. just ignore her and let the thread die."
"pretty sure that it doesn't matter who proposed it. a lot of people agree with the idea, and if you don't like it, you don't have to say anything."
"the point is that it is not proposed in order to contribute anything to the game, but simply to troll. \"a lot of people\" do not agree with the racial connotation in it at all."
"would like help for my khanid"
"i'm sorry, i never read that. if the voting was accessible in stations, then more players would vote. sure it's slightly taking away from immersion, but i for one, don't find myself particularly concerned by the notion. i don't think i've truly been immersed in any game, for well over 10 years. games i was immersed in, way back when:dragon warrior i & iiphantasy star i & ii. - tried iii briefly, but never got into it, as it was at my friends house.final fantasy i-iv or v. - can't quite remember which ones i play, and i lost interest when it moved to 3rd person mode.ys..more like that, though i can't remember them.gran tourismo iii & iv were good too, as was ace combat iv, and armored core: silent line and last raven. lot's of other good games, but my 'spark' was lost sometime around when final fantasy went to 3rd person 3d mode. a lot of anime influence seeped into video games around that time, which i found i didn't much like. the old storyline short movies were cool; the new ones, not so much. something changed and i lost interest.now, i play games for other reasons. experimentation is part of it, as is social activity, and experiencing what the developers have to offer. seeing their work. sometimes i'm really impressed, like with eve here. sure, i don't play much, usually just log in and chat with a few friends, though i may sometimes run a site, or do a quick few missions, or even do a bit of pvp. and, like now, sometimes i just don't feel like playing much anymore, and decide it's time to take a break. once a year usually. this time i'm going a little further than the past two, and selling my mains and an alt. i'll still have one character training, and doing some trade in jita when i feel like it, but otherwise expect to be mostly out of the game for the next few months.immersion? there's real life too. this is just a step between that."
"that's why a representative republic is far better. of course, in the united states we've been transmorphed into a representative democracy when they turned the us senate into a second house of representatives with the 17th amendment."
"99% of the time players do not know what is best for them."
"what i'm proposing is very simple and clear: to add a little delay for pos jump portal arrays between ships jumping.let's say we have a situation when two ships are staying near the jump bridge ready to jump, then the first ship jumps normally, but the second ship needs to wait a little before he will be able to activate jump portal array.the delay could be 30 seconds or 45 or 60 - the concrete number doesn't matter. i think, that even 30 seconds will be enough.single ship moving from distant 0.0 sec system to lowsecs and using a jump bridge system of his alliance will not feel any difference. jump by jump he makes his move. but if a gang (or blob) of many ships needs to occur quickly at some far system - they will have to wait for some period of time untill the last ship from the gang managed to jump through a bridge.the bigger is a gang, the bigger is a time of its jumping.the change is supposed only for poses, not for titans. titan's bridge on cyno is fine (imho).advantages:it will be not possible to gather a blob and to move it 50 jumps from home system in short amount of time if you don't have a titan and a cyno ready.gives more time for incoming roamings to atack poses, claim infacstucture or to make any other quick invasions.is easy to implement (mechanics is similar to reactivation delay of a module or sensors recalibration delay after cloak).fits to backstory. for instance, the jump portal array needs some time to accumulate an energy to perform a jump - some stuff like that.disadvantages:claiming alliance members will whine discussing."
"fully support the idea."
"agree with davader, +1"
"you have my support."
"this will definatly boost the mid-size roamings, which are cool, so i support this as well."
"mmm, good idea!"
"could the csm put it on their priorities list to either get ccp to stop supporting the mac client - or to actually fix it.personally the game has been almost unplayable since the incursions patch - and nothing substantive has been done to fix it. this is not acceptable, and extremely frustrating."
"seriously, i want pink hair."
"yes!!in general we need way many more colors available for our barb... erhmm characters :-)"
"stephanie is that you?"
"noes !!"
"or at least for gallente characters. supported, cause why not, and while you're at it, add green, blue and so on."
"as a clueless mission runner early in life, and quite ill informed about the role of factions and their standings in eve, i've naturally made quite a few enemies in the npc world. these roadblocks have always proved frustrating, especially when the opportunity arose to tap into the valuable pirate factions and research agents.correcting for bad faction standings has always been a vexing problem. ccp made a reasonable first step by allowing people with poor standings the ability to claw their way back into favor through grinding low quality level 1 agents, but there does exist the possibility for more reform. the current system, especially for people with quite bad standings, is extremely time consuming, repetitive, and doesn't offer itself to much interaction with other people.proposal:factional amnesty would allow gang members the ability to share faction standing increases from storyline missions  using the mechanics already in place that allow corporation standing, rewards, and loyalty points to be shared between players.to prevent significant exploitation of the mechanic, players would cease to receive faction standing increases once they've achieved a standing of -2.0 (before skills) for the faction in question. this would allow players without the diplomacy skill the ability to access higher level agents, but any further faction standings increases would have to be at the player's own discretion.benefits:players seeking a way to repair damaged faction standings, especially characters with severe penalties, would have an faster avenue to rebuild than existing mission mechanics. for active participants, gangs would help encourage cooperation between players and lessen the repetitiveness that would normally come from solo low-level mission running.enterprising third-party mission runners could profit from the ability to share faction increases with eager clients whose faction standings are below the -2.0 threshold.the mechanic would provide a far faster way for players who want to run missions, but lack standings, for the gurista / blood raider / sansha triad, as they are the only pirate factions who currently lack a bridge faction (like ore or mordu's legion).in an academic sense, this proposal would use mechanics already implemented for running missions in gangs and, in theory, does not openly seek to invent new or untested solutions.possible drawbacks:current isk sinks involved with low-level mission running, including: mission ships, equipment, the diplomacy skill set, could be negatively impacted.implementation of this mechanic might have the effect of further marginalizing bridge factions as players seek out mission running gangs more useful to their immediate needs.courier mission botting could see a perceptible increase if this mechanic were to be implemented, as players look for ways to benefit from this reform with the least amount of active input."
"i like your idea, you've exposed some benefits some possible drawbacks and it seems it's something that ccp is capable of.supported."
"possible drawbackwith the current mechanics for access to missions and a friend/alt willing to share his factions standing with the opposite faction, the effect of killing ships of a specific faction would be lessened by an extreme degree. the friend running faction missions for the opposite side would not only give you faction standing but corporate standing too. so as soon as you get to the -2 standing threshold where he could no more help you, you will be getting immediate access to level 3 and probably even level 4 missions thanks to your corporate standing.it would become possible to almost freely accept missions where you kill members of a faction and repair instantly your standing. that said the idea isn't bad and it is worth a more in depth analysis, so supported."
"so you think that bin laden should be welcomed into the us if he was to have a friend working for an ally?the only change that is needed is for the all missions to have a caution sticker attached so warn/remind people that anything and everything they do will have lasting consequences.no to easy-mode standings grind option."
"while this would be a very power feature i think it would certaintly be one that would vastly improve the game for some people.i ( like almost everyone in eve ) have multiple accounts. i tend to \"trade\" stuff between my characters using contract. however i have to go through a 3-4 step process. if a feature could be made to allow you to automatically accept contracts from certain players ( and make it a very involved process to set it up to prevent scamming via this system ) it would have alot less clicking.or maybe accept contracts that have no \"negative\" reprocussions. if i am sending something to someone but i do not require anything in return isk or item wise, after x min's the contract is automatically accepted ( gives u time to go back and fix the contract if u screwed up )"
"the availability of local intel makes isk making in 0.0 relatively risk free and safer than highsec. so it's most definately broken. no idea how to fix it without breaking a whole bunch of other stuff though."
"you've either never been to nullsec or you're angry because you can't get cheap kills.0.0 is hardly safe. ever heard of bubbles?"
"ok.. lemme explain how it goes.1. neut/red pops up in local2. warp 2 safe3. cloakhow is that not relatively risk free ?"
"the real issue with the idea of removing local is that the only players it would penalise are the real ones.if you removed local then d-scan would become the new defacto local window with regular d-scans being performed to alert you to the presence of others in the system. not counting the lag you would have bots scaning at regular intervals always able to get away, however the real player sitting at his keyboard would probably more often than not forget once in a while and get ganked, so i hear you say, boot or ban accounts if they scan at regular intervals. unfortunatley studies have shown that humans will appear more scripted than automated programs as we tend to find a rhythm, whereas a bot will run on a random generation sequence which will appear much more random than a human player.so next time before you suggest something ******ed how about doing a little research and anticipating the outcomes of the various solutions rather than just crying because the guy in nullsec who cloaks in his tengu or warps to a pos that he has got set up evaded your 1337 lazors"
"both the real and the bots wil suffer equally.. directional is hardly a drop in replacement for local. you'd need a scout on every gate to even get close to the security local gives you."
"again, i am terribly sorry that you're unable to get cheap kills in null-sec because people are more observant than before, but ccp doesn't need to nerf local just to appease ~elite pvp~ types."
"i don't give a **** about nullsec pvp. i just take offence to people like you that think ratting and doing anomalies in nullsec space is somehow \"dangerous\" while having access to 100% accurate intel. i don't support the removal of local just to replace it with a pimped out directional scanner. (u don't see me thumbing up this thread anywhere do u ?)"
"you certainly imply that you support removing local:have you ever lived in nullsec? seriously?"
"why do u ask? do u need directions on how to get there ?"
":-p like it"
"well as title say would be great to put in contract pi installation would create a new profession \"pi installer\" or \"pi optimizer\"should increase the description field size in contract creation panel to be able to put more details on output etc"
"it's easy anyway, this would barely change a thing."
"i lol'ed. the hamsters running tq are of a different breed than sisi, hence why tq gets unseen bugs."
"indeed. tranquility runs on a special, genetically engineered brand of steroid-abusing super-hamsters. they are better able to run the high-demand hamster wheels, but the constant drug abuse makes them ill-tempered."
"i disagree! most people, i believe, do not expect failure on their part. as for the people that do may not understand completely how the csm works. the success of the csm relies heavily on the players to bring their opinions/ concerns up to them in the best way possible. a group bringing a well organized proposition with enough support behind it to the csm i am confident that it will be noticed by the leaders that have been elected to speak for the people to ccp. although, with enough negative reinforcement and lack of support for a csm, no matter who is in charge, it will always seem to be a fail csm. i also do not understand why so many fear that having a nc majority on the csm is a terrible thing. granted it is in all likelihood that issues concerning the nc will be brought up sooner or with more ferocity, but that is not just because they are on the csm that is because a greater percentage of people voted for them and those people expect something done about their problems just like you. also, them having a big portion of the counsel does not do much else then help bounce resolutions off of one another for their more common goals. there is no big vote... at least not an official one to my knowledge. internal votes may occur, but none-the-less it doesn't matter if ccp doesnt agree with the outcome. the only thing i can see people worried about the makeup of any csm is that from time to time ccp may bounce confidential ideas off of the csm to see how the player would feel about these changes. the idea may be good but not appeal to the individual or the entire csm at the time. just bad timing on ccp's part. if i left something out or seem to be misunderstanding something please quote me and explain. thank you!"
"+1 psh facts are over rated."
"see? this is a good example. dont let this happen. help tentonhammer save itself. write to them at support@tentonhammer.com and let them know what you expect from a web site.one question thoughguild chat? arent guilds those things found in wow? something you want to share with the rest of us?-windjammer"
"that's the joke, you idiot.a lot more people who read tentonhammer or other gaming sites (like world of raids, mmo-champion, joystiq.com, and so forth) play world of warcraft than play everyone very enraged online. if every single user of this game were to unite and boycott tth because of mittani's columns, it would be a drop in the bucket compared to the horde of readership that view the site for news related to other, more popular mmo games. it is therefore highly unlikely that the above scenario will ever occur, and it will most certainly not be the result of one anonymous man-child's internet crusade against the mittani or his puppy.edit: i play wow."
"also, your \"lol, you play wow? nerd\" post is highly original and we've never seen its like before. yup."
"son, lemme tell ya 'bout my top100 bc raiding guild and how we stole all of our strats from ej (then made fun of them on vent because we're that cool).p.s.: how's ej doing lately?"
"question, you do know the difference between an opinion column and a news item right? would you ask people to write to the ny times if they published an opinion piece by glen beck? i'm not sure i see what the issue is here."
"the problem here is that windjammer is an evil, anti-american terrorist who hates cute puppies because he is jealous of our freedom. :911:"
"lol +1 for your joke not your cause"
"it's simply devs favoring anyone that is not in the nc yet again. my question is why do they hate a player developed null sec so much? if you don't want it used ccp just remove it from the game already."
"is all i hear./ear plugs"
"geez - could you use yellow - green - purple - pink - anything but that red. going blind trying to read it"
"yeah, logging in to quote this. the point is that nerfing \"bad\" space back to \"worth 20% of running l4s in empire\" is a terrible design choice -- not because of the intra-0.0 balance but because of the balance of 0.0 against empire space. making some space worth more than others is a good thing, but if players invest a billion isk into a system's upgrades 2 sanctums and 2 havens should be the minimum they are getting out of it, with better truesec enabling more of those, more frequent faction spawns, more plexes, and so forth."
"so, he took the time to explain the flaws in ccp's schedule of changes, the random, haphazard and fickle way that they introduce changes, the lack of forethought and analysis that goes into such major changes, the undue deleterious effects those have on the playerbase... and your response is to simply troll? it's predictable but not terribly amusing. it does, however, show that you're absolutely unable to answer in any real manner, which is why you can only troll about it."
"because of lvl4"
"what do you guys think the csm can do about patches or fail patches or fail-fail patches?nothing! -they wait like you and download the new version like you nerds.feedback thread is opened to every one, do you expect the csm to be your secretary?let them work on serious business for what they are intended to. wtf now?"
"i live on the bleeding edge of geminate so from my personal perspective it takes some imagination to see why we need more conflict drivers, but ok thats fine really. but now our space is suddenly worth very little. we not only lost sanctums and havens but we even lost our frigging hidden hub (that was always fun for the lulz of being swarmed by frigs) even though it's barely 24h from the change we have had many people (myself included) evac all non pvp (and even some pvp!) ships to highsec and i'm hearing about people joining bigger alliances to get access to better space. so that sucks. there is vauge hope that we can get better space but given our size it's slim to none. some people are holding out to run complexes but because of our location most of them escalate into unfriendly space (does not always stop us lol) the current state of affairs (war) makes chasing down escalations ever more difficult. of the last 5 i had 1 did not escalate and 4 went into the o2o \"supercap graveyard\" pocket. eww. i don't show up to fleets and roams any more because i only ratted the isk i needed and now i am trying to focus on other ways to make isk. none of them involve. 0.0. which makes it kinda hard to fight for. it't not worth hanging out there just for pi. i am listening to my alliance mates on team speak right now and it's making me sad. a bunch of them are talking about lp conversion instead of fighting off russians.oh god one of them just said he might start mining again. please make it stop."
"in reference to your comment on if the null sec players having 3-10 accts and if they should be counted as one or many i feel that they should be counted for how many accts they have. i may be biased since i am one of these kinds of people, but i like to think of owning an acct as owning a piece of stock. if a person owns a great percentage of stock in the company even if they are not with the main corporation they have a say in what goes on in relativity to how much stock they own. just a thought."
"i'm sure setting up a teacher-student relationship will get mittens a lot of work done, cause the devs are just aching to be back to school."
"jump bridges give roaming blobs too much mobility. this gives a much needed buff to small gangs. supported, +1, whatever it takes to get this through.*incoming goonswarm flamewar*"
"suported i want a sin that do something better than just cloack compared to a domi"
"am i somewhat of a jerk for putting this below here ?to some degree, yes. but i feel it is necessary.disclaimer : i still love the game, and i still love most of the individual devs at ccp.my problem is with the company policy, dictated by a few people that might not even have anything to do with game design at all._we're patient. we can wait. we want quality.we don't care about your so-called market research that tells you rushed and unpolished new features would sell better than older, sturdy, polished content.that might be the case for wow clones, but not for eve.you had some major dips in subscription counts after each new expansion lately, and those were the expansions with heavy-duty advertising and plenty of \"new features\" (which didn't quite work right, and most of them still don't).overall, on average, the subscriber count slope didn't get steeper.in fact, one could argue you have been losing momentum.save your money that you spend on advertising, word of mouth got you your userbase, word of mouth will keep getting you a larger userbase.customers you get from \"shiny new stuff\" (that doesn't actually work properly anyway) won't stay long enough, and by the time you pumped everything full of barely functional junk, you will have alienated a big portion of the user base.didn't the last fanfest reactions tell you what the userbase wants ?didn't you hear the cheers after the announcement of minor polish stuff ?learn from your mistakes, ccp.it's not too late to alter this self-destructive new policy.stop rushing out unpolished junk and focus on fixing what's broken before proceeding._this goes beyond the \"commitment to excellence\", it's actually a plea to whoever inside ccp has eyes to see and ears to listen.you need to try and convince your boss to convince your boss and so on and so forth.as long as the mindset amongst ccp's leadership is that \"shiny junk sells, old polish doesn't\", the eve vision of future will end up a resounding flop.take a look at sales charts, spank some accountants, do something, just stop this madness.__to support this thread's idea, click the \"check here if you want to give your support to the idea/discussion going on\" checkbox under your post text input box.it's right below \"check here to preview your post\" and right below the character selection and \"post reply\" button.if you forgot to do it at first, you can edit your post to select that too.p.s."
"quoting just because i don't ususally type this much"
"like i was saying somewhere else...it's more of a question of picking between \"shiny new junk\" vs \"polished old awesome\".basically, between chasing for new subs vs making old subs stick around longer.we all feel quite clearly about \"shiny new awesome\" (universally loved) and \"polished old junk\" (which almost nobody cares about, but also, we're not annoyed by it too much either).official ccp quarterly economic newsletter, q4 2010, page 8."
"but, but, but.... deliver?"
"yes, please."
"supported, ty for the pointer on the thumbs up, only taken me 2 years to see it"
"i support this akita and or calathea."
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"to support this thread's idea, click the \"check here if you want to give your support to the idea/discussion going on\" checkbox under your post text input box.it's right below \"check here to preview your post\" and right below the character selection and \"post reply\" button.you can edit your post to select that too. ccp _was_ doing a lot of things just right. past tense. now, ccp is only doing some things right - they're doing the exact opposite of what they used to from a \"development focus\" standpoint.because of that shifted focus, combined with underestimates of development time and pressure to release new stuff at the estimated deadline (as opposed to when it's ready to release), quality has suffered, and most of us have noticed it.and the \"dips here and there\" are getting more pronounced and more frequent as of late - you do know how to read a graph, don't you ?"
"this is the sort of thing that's tarnished ea's reputation for non-sports games and has greatly annoyed star wars fans in general(lucasarts has taken to doing this too).it's a natural businessman's reaction: they want to start getting a return on the money they've invested right now, and are extremely averse to continuing to spend money on a project in development.this mentality has no place in the world of gaming, however. you'll note that part of the reason blizzard got their initial good reputation was their staunch refusal to do just this. in fact, they won't even put out a release date for one of their games until the cds are actually being pressed and they're sure that's when it'll be released. this annoys retailers (who generally just make up a date on their own), but avoids the perception of schedule slipping.i've gotten the impression they're sliding into it a bit since the merger with activision, but there can be little doubt that their dedication to releasing only finished, working products and not allowing that to be compromised by anything, including pressure to meet a schedule, is one of the reasons they've had so many smash hits over the years.electronic arts, on the other hand, who is known for pushing things out unfinished, is also known for abandoning support of games while they still have bugs and also for buying up developers and then eradicating them. westwood studios, creator of command and conquer is one example. right now they look to be starting in on this with bioware (dragon age 2, for example).lucasarts did this to kotor 2, apparently even to the point that when the developed asked to be able to add some of the cut content in with a patch later, lucasarts wouldn't let them. they also did it repeatedly to star wars galaxies, and to a considerable extent the game never really recovered from it. the stuff that was missing at launch actually broke the game when it was added in, and they redid the entire game system twice trying to fix it, which drove off all their subscribers. the force unleashed 2 is another good example, as everyone i've talked to that played it was vastly disappointed and thought it was massively overpriced for being as short and unoriginal as it was.and yes, i am scared to death about sw:tor as a result of those two working on it, and have been ever since bioware got bought by ea. :x"
"second checkbox, below 'preview'"
"i'd like a little more clarification on this. if ccp advertised more with the last few expansions, and garnered more subscribers than normal, wouldn't it be logical to say that the dips would be larger? you say it yourself, the subscriber slope maintained normalcy, meaning there weren't any severe penalties for this \"unfinished\" content. however, i only have you to go on though, perhaps add a link to the chart/graph you used to come to this conclusion.i'm lazy and grading papers at the moment .i appreciate your thread and your commitment to what you feel leads to eve's improvement."
"damn wrong character but supported anyway"
"i support this thread..... with big letters"
"sure, yes. ultimately though we all pretty much know how this is going nowhere."
"i wouldn't mind, if for smaller things like graphical fixes and mechanics stuff that they put them out separate from the big stuff. that way, they can spend the time they need on new big things and still give us fixes regularly."
"subscriber count graphs available in the qens."
"fully supported.it's not that us (the players) don't want change or new things, they're welcomed - but it should not come at the cost of poor quality.there's been lots of small things that need fixing which have gone by ccp's radar for a long time because they seem to mostly concentrate on new features and shiny new things.a quality game with attention to making existing content work properly first and foremost - then only adding new shiny things once they've been fully and properly tested with feedback from players listened to is what is most needed."
"do like. what else is there to say?"
"well from a longer strategic standpoint at least you can only bait and swtich people so many times before they stop coming back to be a part of the peak. the new content is not causing bumps in subscriber numbers to \"stick\", and if growth is about the same ignoring it then you could say that it's only old content that's pulling it along. if development keeps ignoring solid longstanding content eventually that growth will decline and pumping numbers with new failed content will no longer be able to keep up."
"old topic, but with you as the resident evangelist ... we might have a chance"
"you're right, the reverse can also be true. that's why i think incarna will greatly increase the retention rate of subscribers, but it's also understandable why many players are sick of hearing about it as nobody can actually play it."
"supported. tired of broken features. ccp needs a new qa team as well."
"gonna support this and also a support to the old forums which we use now.i understand ccp wanting to do new things and stuff but to me the only team at ccp that has accomplished anything of real value to the community and the game is team bff and their small fixes patch. that got people excited and that was a large success. i for one really really like the new contracts system. i also will confess i don't use evegate. i never wanted to use it and still don't use it but the new forum(which is now dead) is integrated into it. what i would have wanted was a redesign of this website to make it for functional along with a kickass search feature. the new forums went through 2 rounds of testing and didn't even survive their first real weekend.it is telling when several upstanding community members whom myself and others look up to for their opinions are telling the company whose game they play to stop and slow down. it indicates disappointment and unsatisfaction."
"speaking of which, i heard whispers of unconfirmed rumours that ccp actually lost a noticeable portion of their former testers not so long ago (fuzzy on the details as to why though), so basically, they're running with an understaffed and overworked qa team.would love to get an official denial of that, but appearances do lend a lot of credence to those rumours.it would certainly explain a few things."
"i fully support this akita. eve should be a highly polished game, where the bulk of new content is generated by the players."
"seriously though, how do expect a company which can't even manage to properly setup a new forum to really be able to get even more complex things done right. i'm not trying to be extremely rude, but these problems (specifically the forums) do speak towards the actual planning, execution and management of operations. a top to bottom reassessment of the workforce is probably a good prescription for the current ailments of ccp.just saying"
"i've been thinking about this... i'm not going to blame qa anymore.we've seen that when people do point out problems with features that they are ignored and pushed through anyway (and you might get a ban on top of it).this is a management problem. a lack of resolve to quality."
"i think so too, a lot of it smacks of them having a bona-fide american style corporate exec in there somewhere. it affects everything below them, because someone like that punishes anyone that tells them anything but what they want to hear, tends to be cut off from the reality of what's on the ground, and thinks he knows better than anyone else.this type of person will get an idea and force it through, and literally not allow anyone below them to question it.it's death for a company in the creative industry, because you have to listen to your customers. the key point is being able to pick out the difference between people just saying they don't like it because it's different and being legitimately upset about it. in my experience most mmo makers seem to lose that ability after some years, as they grow used to the idea that people whine about everything, particularly on the forums."
"that job opening was posted on feb 14th of this year. thought i'd clarify. not sure if that changes anything, probably not though.proof link.edit - how long have the new forums been in the making?"
"reminds me of the dev team during the age of shadows expansion for ultima online."
"tbh that's what i'm starting to think more and more.it's not that qa fails to do their job, it's like that there isn't qa at all.most middle-rank devs are probably good chaps that try to do their jobs as good as they can i'm sure, but stuff gets kinda hard when the department that is used to make the customers not raeg! can't even do basic testing.this whole new forum incident, could've been avoided not only by some basic qa testing, but also by some proactive testing provided by the security department aswell."
"given that they're a port of an existing, open source forum software and from looking at them... i'd guess about a week.that link though illustrates something rather important: they are in fact hiring in qa, and the way they're going about doing it says a lot about how the people running the qa department think.for starters, they call it an 'internship', and have it set for a short, fixed period of time with an option to double it. it's paid, though they don't say how much (that and the job title implying it's not very much). additionally, no mention is made of the possibility of moving into a permanent position. no mention is made of benefits either.this means one of two things: either at least part of their qa department is made up of glorified temps, or they're doing a try it before you buy it sort of thing. get someone in there and see how they do without a long-term commitment. regardless of the intent, the reality is probably somewhere in the middle. they hire people but let most of them go, only hiring the ones they really like on permanently. they may in fact deliberately let some of them go afterwards because by continually hiring new temps they can pay them all peanuts, and get the work done without all the costs and strings of a real employee.and frankly, there isn't a company in the world that hires at all unless they're short staffed.an exec having a large portion of qa liquidated to take the fall for his bad management would be a typical business practice too."
"ccp really need to break the management fail cascade.it is more important to keep your customers paying their subscriptions than to get new customers. stop masturbating to the \"total subscriptions\" graph, start paying attention to the \"cancellations\" graph.i have seen this behavior first-hand, from a company which was run by an american used to the over-promise under-deliver, sell-at-all-costs school of management. all the people who told him the product was not fit for sale were fired (that's me and two others). after release, when it turned out the product was not fit for sale, the company folded, and the idiot in charge still blames me and two others.so temp-hiring qa folks is an indication that they're looking for yes-men, not testers. i took my resum<U+FFFD> to fanfest with the intention of going home with a new job, did not apply for any jobs.ccp, this time it is the entire player base calling you on you bulldust."
"if we're honest, they're both important. people are always going to leave, for one reason or another, and you have to be bringing in new people to replace them.the key point being to build on your existing base. to my knowledge every game that's ever decided that it was more important to attract a new base than to keep their existing one has ended up going nowhere. it's very, very difficult to turn a game into a hit after launch if it isn't almost all the way there to begin with."
"quite true. there is a statistic, but the life of me i can't locate it, that a newspaper has a better and easier chance of acquiring previous customers as opposed to brand new ones. so they devote much of their advertising in that direction. separate fields entirely, but i think the example works just as well.it frustrates me that i can't find that stat!"
"my father used to be customer service manager at a major us newspaper, and he once told me about something he'd seen that indicated that people who had a problem and then had a good experience with customer service were more loyal than if they'd never had a problem at all.he also mentioned that the booth sales department i worked for at one time had been shut down because they mostly just sold people subscriptions with a super good deal, and then they'd cancel once the deal ran out. some of them would do this over and over again, cancelling their subscription every time the deal ran out and then signing up again at another of our booths that they found.they came to the conclusion that those deals were thusly a lot of junk and stopped offering them, and then all of a sudden the booth sales department was doing jack all so they got rid of them."
"thanks for the discussion. i quite enjoyed it."
"haven't we been trying to tell them this for a while now?"
"5 years in and 2 accounts.i'm not a big fish by any means, but i'm pretty much done with this game. which is a shame because it's the best game i've ever played."
"indeed we are"
"something that just occured to me... earlier someone, i think akita, said something to the effect that it was about two or three years ago when the signs of the management problems started to appear.now read this...surprisingly google did a pretty good job with this one."
"not supported, i want them to deliver not listen to burned out old ****ers who can't let go of the game and who think just because it's no longer fun for them it's over for everybody.what i wish ccp would do is every time someone makes a public \"i quit\" post on the fourm, their characters are biomassed by a gm when the subscription runs out. but that's just a dream of mine."
"so...you say you want ccp to deliver, yet you troll a thread asking them to deliver instead of just saying they do?"
"supported. for reals."
"my thoughts exactly."
"so much this. the batch of \"little\" fixes was one of the best things introduced in a patch for quite some time. now if you would only give the s&i interface some polish for matar's sake."
"so did i, but all they told me was, apply for the position posted at the site... they weren't making an effort to get people really. even if they did, i wouldn't have signed, because working as an overqualified, underpaid intern with no securities in a frozen ****hole is not my thing. it's bad enough they tricked me into coming to fanfest saying yes to the n-th wakeup call thread."
"hell yes. ccp is starting to look like ea before their image review. raping everything they get their hands on for quick return.i've got myself a deadline; i'll wait till summer (august) and if by then the most glaring issues aren't solved (hybrids, gallente, op 1400's (seriously, arty abbadons!???), stupid op supers that make all caps obsolete. industry changes (ui..)) i'll just find a new game to play, or focus more on studying physics. i can only wait so long. i really hate ea for ruining so many cool universes, now ccp is doing the same thing. it's the exact same path they're taking."
"no"
"if you head over the ex ccp employees blog, you'll see all of them agreeing that ccp internal communication is their achille's heel, that teams act like they live in a \"void\" with little interaction between them and several other curiosities.i was considering asking for a job @ccp as economist helper or even as coder but the wages seem horripilant and their pension system is not integrated or compatible with anything yet it requires an amount of (10 iirc) years just to make you eligible to get it.here's my ms paint approximation about the next months in eve's subscriptions market, even if ccp changed their ways and approach to quality (players discontent inertia):please visit your user settings to re-enable images.as you can see the trend is exhausting (increasing volatility on the upper graph).the yellow lines show the slope changes in the \"123 zig zag\", the cyan are some areas of support or resistance.and getting more \"whipsawing\" which is another sign of trend exhaustion.this trend will peak either at the current high or a next lower high (not drawn) then there will be a sharp drop down to the lower support.it will break because we will be in summer (low subs period of the year) and an even sharper drop will happen.after a rebounce (typical bottom w formation), if ccp changed their ways, they will slowly begin rising up (red line).if they stay as is, we'll see a further drop (blue line) to dynamic support and then who knows."
"riiiiight"
"supported!"
"supported."
"1.0"
"a bit frightening how much this represents my own view, really.let's just hope that after the n-th time, they listen. statistics/past experience suggest otherwise, but here's to that thing, hope."
"depends on how far up the chain it is. if it's a guy somewhere in the middle sooner or later he won't be able to scapegoat or spin the numbers or anything, and it'll come back to him.if it's someone at the top...it might come back to them only in the form of the company going down in flames.trying to get an exec like that to see reason is much like trying to reason with a conspiracy theorist. they're so dead on certain that they're right that they just discount anything you say that contradicts them."
"i kind of doubt it is related to the new share owners as posted above - afterall those were issued to fund dust514 (along with lots of money from eve ...) - meaning someone was already losing touch to the player base. anyway, i support akitas proposal."
"statistics can be fooled. for example, if they count in the accounts that have received some kind of free gametime. how many would have just clicked on a email to reactivate for free?plus.. do they count in the trial accounts which playtime last 14days?"
"supported for the brief time ccp might listen before reverting back to stupid business logic that ignores common sense about this basic idea."
"not supported as your ridiculous arrogance is too overbearing"
"can't do anything but support this. any feature, new or old, is pretty worthless if it isn't good enough or doesn't work properly. it also greatly decreases the players enjoyment of the game, makes them look for other things to do and diminshes their trust in ccp's capability to deliver on any future feature/iteration of an old feature. you aren't developing games in a void. you can either deliver competative features and gameplay experiences or you're going to get stomped on by the competition. ccp's attitude of \"it doesn't matter if it's crap now, we can iterate on it later\" is damaging the game. they simply don't ever iterate or develop their features to full potential. they do some basic bug fixing and usability tweaks and call it a day and move on to develop the next half finished feature. you're left with a game where there are tons of things to do, but everything is a bit lackluster, unbalanced and under developed or has obvious content holes.lately there have been signs that all of this might be changing, but the new forum fiasco shows that it might have been just a reaction to the complaints and subscription losses of last year instead of an actual change in development philosphy and thinking in ccp leadership."
"supported, new forums were a joke, one that seems to be old at ccp."
"agreed, also the new forums, are they kidding, has issues with firefox (eve gate does as a whole) and the new forums were very unsafe in the basic writing up of them and barley any smartphone capability? really?"
"and there i was thinking ccp learned from the \"18 months\" communication fail\"."
"."
"hell yeah! thumbs up!"
"1.0"
"akita t makes a post. incoming threadnaught."
"eta until the next discrete offer from ea?"
"that graph allegedly contains only paid-for active subs. trial accounts and expired accounts not counted.i'm almost hoping you're not right..."
"supported. i came to this game because it was far more \"finished\" and stable than any mmo i've played before. i don't want it to lose that."
"allegedly :)"
"free cat!"
"i support the idea in op. i don't have much else to say, other than that i was (unfortunately) correct about them forcing us out of our pods, which i don't like. not at all."
"yes, very much agreed."
"agree."
"ccp will you ever learn, or maybe it is the players that should learn and just dump you once and for all."
"i, too, am gay."
"i find myself in the unfortunate position of agreeing with the mass of idiots. i've defended alot of ccp's decisions, like the whole 18 month thing, but for the sake of us all please do some security checking next time."
"its sad when a developer doesn't understand what their game is about; stop taking us in the wrong directly and doing it in the wrong way. please!"
"supporting a great insight!"
"agreed.unfortunately though, it seems to be a growing trend that companies don't listen to their customers, or even their lower ranking staff members, and just seem to blindly carry on with their 'management' view of the world :("
"1.0"
"this is the solution to the current problems of ccp/the game never let any \"investors\" in, never!stay small and deliver on your promises - don't let yourself be fscked by greedy capitalists!the future of eve online looks very dark eve online:vision - greatdelivery - what delivery?!"
"support.look ccp how when you gave good quality expansion aka apocrypha and what it did to your subscription numbers.now go compare numbers to your failed 3 lastest expansions."
"1.0"
"i support this notion."
"supportin tis."
"yes i do suport this with all my 6 accounts... fix the old, broken and half functional stuff please."
"excellent post, and i echo it wholeheartedly.however, at this stage, i must be realistic. they have to release incarna this summer, even if it is just cq. they have to. they spent way too much time and money on it already to scrap it now. otherwise it is in risk of becoming a never-ending vicious cycle. by the time they improve and polish it, what they improved is now outdated and needs further improvement, and by then it is outdated again. we saw this in darkfall - by the time the game finally \"released\", if that's the right word, it was still badly outdated in every respect.what i would settle for, and even be happy with, is them wrapping up incarna (both cq and stations) within this calendar year. just release it, such as it is, and forget about it. ccp just doesn't have the resources or manpower to turn that part of the game into a full-fledged sci-fi sim. there's no shame in that, you can't be everything to everybody. and then the rushed releases of new stuff need to be stopped. new stuff, period, needs to be stopped. including dust (how anyone can think that game will do well on consoles is beyond me). focus on the game itself, focus on fixing stuff that's been broken for a long, long time."
"i must agree.eve is suffering terribly from poor management. as someone who has managed groups of deveopers in the past, i understand that herding cats is sheer simplicity in comparison. but it is a job that must be done, and competently.ccp, your management of the software development process, from a to z, is terrible. no, worse than terrible - it is embarrassing. stop breaking things that work. go back and document your code base. get your developers to re-use objects instead of building new ones from scratch every time. go fix the things you have broken before you start making new things. you are on a downward path that will lead to your inevitable demise and i enjoy this game too much to want that to happen!"
"as someone who have cancelled his account a few times, and came back a few times, i'm sure of one thing :the new toys are often a good idea to come back to the game and pay 1 month of suscription...but they are not enough to make us pay for the next month if they are not finished.cause when you come back to see something new who looks cool, you're still gonna look at others things, and remember how awful where some others things who needed fixes.and there's even more risk that after a few days / weeks you realize the new features who looked so cool is not that cool, and it would have been better waiting more before releasing it.btw tell me if i'm wrong, but we never asked for new forums right ? we may have asked for improving current one, but never asked for changing all things, moreover to something most people don't like at all... and i didn't even talked about the bugs here.ps : i'm waiting for captain quarter on the test server, but i'm not waiting at all for it to go on live server.i'm just curious, and want to see if it's really without any interest as i though, or if i was wrong.however i would be way more interested by seeing a real incarna, with real useful features, appearing.the cq we don't care about, for us it's just an idea of what the future real thing could be.cq is a little toy, that's all.give it some useful features that we don't really have if you want results on long term. if not, you'll only see numbers improving on the 1st month, and that's all."
"the trees are swaying in the chants of tibetan monks, screeching little kids flying in the ocean without constraint. this is where we are. this is where there are no rocks and pebbles.the wood in the bike is not stolen, for he who shall yield will be oppressed. depression. intolerance. words of strenght and glory of days long lost and forgotten. the echoes in our mind is calling us. a single entity made of rust and dust. it is here now. we can feel it. times are changing. mark our word.-doomsday prophet nimbat."
"akita t speaks the truth. i cannot possibly agree more."
"i approve!the development of the game has reached a point where you cant just \"fix\" major concepts with little changes to this and that. ccp you need to at least listen to what your players are saying, if needs be setup small 'councils' for 0.0/low sec/empire etc that you can have a chat with and see what's going on (don't fly them out to iceland but at least talk to them).if you keep going down this route you are going to rapidly start losing the older players and that might end up working its way back into the e-press, do we really need to remind you what happened when you asked for the best game of 2010 votes or whatever it was?"
"commitment to excellence mk 2, lets push this all the way."
"yes, yes, yes, and yes.ccp is not 10 guys in an attic anymore, ccp is a 600 employee multinational company. its time they started acting like one.less vision, more sight."
"i support this proposal!"
"that approximation-graph is kinda scary"
"akita and calathea are absolutely right on all accounts. ccp is being monumentally stupid and is throwing away everything they have built. if they don't step back from the edge of the cliff now then it won't matter if they don't jump off it, it won't matter if they plan on backing up later, because the cliff face is going to give way and everything is going to come crashing down.i love eve, i have eve tattoos, i want to see eve continue for years and years and years. i want to be able to introduce my kids to this game. i want it to have the longevity and the vision and the expansiveness that made me love this game in the first place...but no. no, ccp would rather follow the stupid, stupid market trend data from other mmos, most of which failed by the way, and push out crappy new content to try to get more people at the expense of those who stayed with them and supported them from the beginning.eve is not like other mmos, eve's community is different. eve is different. we don't need shiny new features to keep us happy. we don't need new stuff to keep having fun. eve has no max level. eve has no top tier epic gear. we the players are capable of keeping ourselves busy without new things to play with. fix the stuff that needs fixing. take the time to iterate upon all the stuff you've introduced. where are other t3s? where are the fix to factional warfare? where is the industrial expansion? where is the blaster rebalance? why hasn't the dead horse pos thread been applied yet? your game is dying on the vine while you try to expand your vineyard. stop focusing on growth. make a good game and it will grow. watch eve never fades, remember when that was what you committed to? when your trailers were proud to be made using actual gameplay? when you showed eve as it was, instead of some tarted up studio gimmick?you don't need to expand the game in the way you are. look at factional warfare. what did it add to the game? it was a big deal, and you put so much effort and marketing into it to try and get people interested in eve and provide a quick injection to your subscriber base. but that didn't work. because you didn't tend to faction warfare and take care of it. i doubt you could fix it now if you tried. it is a dead feature. incursions are going the same way. they are something that absolutely just didn't need to be in the game. they don't add to the game what the game needs. they clutter it. you're taking a beautiful idea, and covering it with clutter and unnecessary additions.here is something that needs to happen now. every time a new expansion comes out. ccp needs to plan ahead to take care of the features they release, and monitor them, and iterate upon them, and build upon them. for years until people stop complaining about it and start asking for new features. if ccp can't commit to taking care of their existing features, then they shouldn't be adding more. this is like parenting 101, its not rocket surgery. turn back ccp, before its too late."
"with respect akita, i think you are preaching to the choir. the reality is the internal structure of ccp; notably fail management heirarchy based on being a 'cool dude' and 'nordic' and a lack of business wide unified development approach (too many side projects and scrum nonsense) juxtaposed with 'vision' which is neither particularily realistic or technologically viable with the current codebase. i'm afraid its as good as it gets. tbh when everyone has a carrier in 18 months time i'm pretty sure not even incarna (whatever confused jew-manji that was ever supposed to be) will reverse the trend long term. start looking forward to wod in approx 18 years time. light a candle for eve if you want; but you really need to accept ccp doesnt have the will or the financial backing to do what needs to be done - completely revise the codebase and entertain the prospect of a top-down business wide clear out. even if they could raise the cash to hire 500 more specialists nobody wants to live in iceland and work for peanuts and the subscriber base propping it all up won't tolerate any major rebalancing of the economy or the core mechanics. all the managers in the mmo industry are profit focussed and arguably such a radical change in corporate culture would only hasten the demise of ccp as a private company anyway. moaning about half arsed rc's might make you popular on the forums - but i'm sure pretty much everyone in the trenches at ccp knows what the issues are."
"i think ccp's new mantra should be deliver excellence, not one or the other."
"yeeeessss.ccp, spend a few expansion cycles iterating (properly iterating) and fixing your existing content, rather than pumping out big, useless, bug-ridden features."
"i agree on what is being said here"
"yessss! yelling at ccp for their inconsistent product is the new botting/rmt/projectiles/mission-nerf! finally were gonna see some progresss!"
"two months left on my last subscription crew, checking in.one thing i'd like to point out is that the problem with the forums is not that not enough time has been spent on them. they've been in progress since, what, october? we were told they'd come out in february? they beta'd around then? twice? and i believe this is a team of 10 people.that many dev hours is plenty of time.the problem is that ccp is terrible at project management. they're terrible at running a business.i think the best thing that can happen to this game is that ccp runs out of money and its investors/creditors force a sale to ea, who ****cans everyone, moves development away from an icy rock in the middle of nowhere to a place where actual talented programmers live voluntarily, and successfully employs even the most rudimentary planning and roi methodologies."
"ouch, harsh..."
"or, ccp smartens up and keep's the old feel of a small company putting out a great product while still making a massive, great mmo. perhaps their \"eve future\" gets delayed by a couple years but at least at that time they will have a happy player base willing to tell their friends about what will be the greatest mmo ever. i would love to see some dev's or something post in threads like this to show ccp is taking a stance on the issue. i dont think they do this enough and it feels like they don't want to acknowledge their recent incompetence as an issue even if thats not what they mean to do."
"1.0"
"afaik ea tried once. didn't happen."
"if they'd believe in eve, wouldn't they be rewriting it instead of incarna. in my opinion the incarna tech they're developing is primarily for the world of darkness mmo and of course they're making it on eve's expense.i really do hope world of darkness ends up like the wow clones that didn't make profit."
"i think we can agree that most of the incarna pieces delivered so far have been crap out of the gate... including the character creator which has been mostly fixed.but still ccp continues to feed us crap, and then \"iterate\" on crap until it tastes less like crap.i'm tired of crap."
"i think that eve has tremendous amount of potential and practically limitless possibilities for expansion of the eve universe. but at the same time eve has an enormous amount of flaws. it seems that ccp is really focused on delivering new features... but without a solid foundation and care the potential of eve is being wasted."
"are people expecting ccp to do a full reverse and work on the backlog? what do you think the chances of this occurring are if they're \"full steam ahead\" on incarna?what happens if we're all proven wrong and the \"vision\" ccp has touted does indeed garner large amounts of subscribers? will players admit they were wrong? or will they continue to say that ccp is moving in the wrong direction?it seems easy to predict what could happen in the coming weeks and months.step 1: new forums back up and running with security loophole fixed sans aesthetic changes or other suggestions players have supplied.step 2: threadnaughts about ccp's lack of commitment listening to player feedback. most likely spead-headed by akita.step 3: ccp eventually makes some of the changes called for by the players.step 4: threadnaughts created saying it's too late and these changes should have been made some time ago. players will enjoy the new changes regardless.step 5: ccp releases captain's quarters on sisistep 6: threadnaughts created detailing ccps lack of committment to the \"core\" aspects of eve and walking in stations is not the future of the game.step 7: ccp offers their reasoning as to why they believe it is, players disagree.step 8: ccp does a slow roll-out of incarna beginning with captain's quarters.step 9: players respond with, \"that's it?\" when they should have seen this coming with the implementation method of incursion. threadnaughts generated about waiting so long for so little.step 10a: incarna allows players to physically see the avatar they create, fulfilling the basic psychological need of attaching to a human face/form/familiarity. eve is now touted as the full sci-fi experience, subs increase dramatically. vets will dislike the attitudes/opinions of incoming players, threadnaughts generate about ccp's shift in management and design doctrine, not conducive to quality spaceshippy game.step 10b: incarna is an utter failure, next age of shadows or new game experience debacle. players on the \"right (correct)\" side do not hesitate to point out they were right, and will show ccp where exactly things went wrong, even though it's far too late. happy to see they're correct and accepted, but without a spaceship game they call home. leave. threadnaughts generated lamenting of the past, how great things were, how great they could have been, and asking for suggestions on another game to play. perhaps world of tanks.step 11: life goes on.step 12: people will think i'm a troll or a moron for writing this or providing a \"disagreeable\" view against the norm of this thread.step 13: life goes on!//for fun and to stir the pot."
"extremely harsh... by this time, eve as whole will be long since dead, and the only pilots in space will be chribba and his alts... i wholeheartedly agree with akita and the fact that we need less new shiny (unless ofc, we are making it in our sandbox, and using it to blow up the other guy )ccp --> you have done a great job getting us a game outside the mainstream of wow and its predecessors/clones. you have to keep this up, but not through the addition of crap features that you leave to die.*some* of the fail of your new features can be attributed to going completely against the general rules of eve -- mayhap you should re-read them.rules of eve (as i understand them):0. trust no one, not even your alts -- they're all out to get you1. if you can't afford to insure it, you can't afford to fly it2. trust no one3. if it's too good to be true, it's probably a scam4. that guy who's \"quitting\" and will give you 3x what you gave him won't?. trust no one (you see the pattern here?)fw and incursions --> wait what, i'm now suddenly supposed to trust that the guy in a bs i've never flown with is *not* going to omgwtfpwn my logistics cruiser??? really??? (might not be so much fw though, was busy doing other stuff when that came about..)"
"maybe ccp thinks that eve is the perfect beta testing framework for other projects."
"1.0"
"supported"
"ccp going downhill nonshocker.what ccp really needs is some competition, unfortunatlly there is none for their niche market share.supported anyway."
"not really. but some more attention to it would be nice.and some decent qa work before anything goes live is a must.if this happens while the eve of that day is still recognizably similar to the eve we have today, then i would be content. not happy, but content. problem is, from where i'm standing, i don't think we're going to get there if things keep happening the way they seem to be happening more often in the more or less recent past."
"since when has ccp ever \"listened\" ? a constant barrage of new ideas and schemes being implented only to be nerfed 6 months later shows a certain lack of forward thinking. what is worse are the instances where the player base warned ccp that what they are doing is wrong and then were proven right. anyways, good post akita"
"supported."
"the chart provieded by akita is pretty much what will happen, as i know from the stock market, two big spikes like you see at the end of ccps chart and the beggining of akits is a signal for a big drop.fully supported!"
"the idea of this thread has my absolute support."
"sub canceled, but still supporting."
"fully supported"
"ccp's attitude and behaviour surrounding 1.4 just proves to me how much lip service they are paying to their customers and the game.they'd rather forge ahead in their own direction and damn everyone else, which would be fine except they took steps towards player involvement in the development process.either use the csm or lose it ccp."
"i am not by any means a true old-school player, but i have been playing with many accounts for about 2 years now and i have consistently kept up with the forums and various other sorts of eve-news. as a result, i have a lot of respect for the (older) eve community and comparatively little respect for ccp.i really don't want to have to think about canceling my accounts anywhere down the line, but undoubtedly i will if eve loses the bulk of its most important player base - those people who have been with it for years, perhaps from the beginning, and care greatly for the game as a whole - not those who have wandered here looking for their next mmo fix, which undoubtedly eve will satisfy for a year or two, before they cancel and move on to something else.so yeah, supported."
"i support this=======================the \"character market\" channel featured on eveboard.com ( chribba's website for character show room )"
"supported. of course, how can you not support this?"
"2/3 subs cancelled, but supportedfix 'dem darn papercuts !"
"supported. half-baked \"shiny\" new stuff makes me consider leaving eve. eve is fun but unfinished content tends to cancel a bunch of that out. also, walking in stations is dumb. i want to play eve, not the sims.on a positive note, i really enjoyed a lot of the recent minor fixes and improvements. polish the content you have, ccp, then add new stuff (i can wait for new stuff if have a fun non-buggy internet spaceship mmo to pass the time)."
"1.0"
"specific gameplay issues are not that much of a problem. players can adapt to it fairly quick. let's take a look on your examples:- hybrids are not that bad. i use them on my alt almost exclusively and all i can say that they are not that useful, but they still have their use- gallente are not broken. one of the best pve and pvp ships around. ok, maybe capitals are much more useful than the capitals from other races, but that's basically it.- 1400 are not op. they are only a tool used to fight in lag where rof is not important. abaddons are used because they can have the most raw hp, which is also important in lag.- supers are op, that i'll agree with you.- industry ui is screaming for changes.the bigger problem is screwing customers over. their recent nerf of anomalies where a lot of small alliances lost their invested isk (which is in fact a very big deal for smaller entities), ccp's lack of understanding of 0.0 warfare and player mentality (wars over sanctums anyone?), their hilarious reimbursement policy based on \"our logs show nothing\" principle and non-existent customer support are making the biggest impact. so far, we've got only hints of a fight against bots and that the lag will be more tolerable with the new hardware/building core code. one more drop in the almost full glass of bad decisions and irrational ideas is the new \"banning rule\" of the alliance tournament (come on... seriously ) - it's a minor annoyance that will affect small amount of players, but it shows that the idea itself wasn't even discussed inside ccp for potential flaws/downsides. it was only driven by \"how cool does it sound\".btw. the idea for nerfing 0.0 pve was influenced by their lead economist who only had the statistical data from the economy, but failed to notice or didn't get the data from other ccp's departments that in the q4 of the last year (and continued to this year) we had major rise in the amount of bots, primarily mission running/ratting ones. i'm talking about thousands of them."
"big time."
"agreed."
"change of plan, cancelled 2 accounts, keeping two open (one is pos/invention one, and the other is my main.)not sure about the future, weather they go back up later depends on ccp."
"supported."
"ccp wake up. you have a solid customer base. stop trying to sell out and appeal to the masses, stick to what you are good at."
"upboats."
"supported"
"supported."
"thumbs up."
"."
"part of \"why the hell am i logging into this game anymore\" crew supporting"
"well said."
"fully supported"
"support,i hope the new csm will be able to do something!"
"supported."
"supported, i can't keep splaining these black eyes as 'falling down'."
"i fully agree with this"
"supported. enough is enough."
"supported!!"
"absolutely support"
"supporting this with my whole heart ... but i am a realist and i know that ccp don't and will not give a damn unless people start to massively unsub. soon they will make stupid jokes about all this shi* that is happening for some time."
"sometimes i really agree with akita t!"
"couldn't agree more"
"i support this thread.ccp, you need to hear this.yes i was at fanfest, i did hear what you said, but you still need to fix what is in the game before you add more content. this content includes incarna.tedric."
"supported"
"up"
"supported.edit: knee-jerk post removed. still supported."
"post:{/start}i support / endorse op's point of view's and / opinion's {/end}"
"recently i got the sense that progress was being made, we've had iterative releases, notice taken, of incremental improvement, bug fixing, not been with hiccups,then, bang, ccp shoots it's self in the foot.as someone who's worked in the software development industry for over 18 years and reached the position of principal architect on multi-million pound custom built systems, i know that poor quality costs you more in the long term. that cost is not just in monetary terms either, but prestige, missed deadlines and good staff. it will burn-out your best people, those that care and go the extra mile, one day they will turn around and say **** this i'm off.some people are blaming, open source, others microsoft, but good or bad systems can be produced with any technology. no the fault lays with with poor management."
"a few days ago some guy i know from working with game dev was talking about other icelandic developers, some of which have financial interests in his company (which is a small, indy place... they are just backing). he's a pretty big ccp fanboy, so i give i'm a go with talking about how the mismanagement is driving them into the ground and... amazingly he actually agreed based on talking to one of the partners; now you're thinking \"ok who cares\".anyway, the person in question is generally referred to with a name starting with an 'h' and not including the \"ccp\" prefix and has been around forever. this person claimed that ccp was pretty much killing itself by making people like him work on the business aspects while the technical and game dev side was being overrun by business types or \"game devs\"(the ones that cant code), who have no clue at all and just want to do gimmicky bull**** to please investors. he wanted to realign to the early days where there was a more involved steering from the high-up technical types, but was struggling with the \"how\".just thought i'd put that out there - i'm sure he'd never confirm saying that, but i felt it nice to know that at least one of the oldguard had a clue. trust me, dont trust me... i don't care.get rid of the bodies, stop hiring community tools and \"yes-men\" who are just going to continue this. stop listening to all your commercially interested partnerships and start looking to do things fresh, python was a great idea and made eve possible, all of your other infrastructure choices have been based on partnerships and money, lets stop screwing the consumer who is paying for that experience. middleware is not the solution either. at the end of the day, we'd rather have a small company doing less grand expansions (who cares about dust/incarna when the core game is rotting), we want the quality and gameplay back - you don't need to be the big playa to do that.at the end of the day, if you make that choice too late, after dust fails and your investors run... you've lost the game son."
"major quality related forum embarisment so close to the fanfest.supported."
"supported"
"at some point in a companies journey and growth, reestablishing the concept of what made that company successful and unique, is needed for a reality check and to get back some of that focus and grit we were promised in the beginning. usually this happens when you write your business plan for the year.as for the polish bit:polishing a turd does not change the fact it is still a turd. use some focus to pull out the the things that actually need polishing."
"yes, please stop rushing out things before they are even close to being ready. and when you test them, listen to the folks you ask to test them. if you aren't going to listen to your beta testers, why even bother having them ?"
"<sigh> supported. not that it will make any difference."
"what (s)he said, because it's what we think."
"totally agree, way too many times have i seen very noticeable bugs on the test server such as the mackinaw being bright yellow... weeks before final release, yet they somehow make it into the final version and only get fixed when loads of people start making noise about it.i'm really getting tired of ccp not listening to us, what is the point of the test server if bug reports are not even acknowledged?oh and will we ever get remade ships like the scorpion? or new t3 ships? or comets? are you just going to leave everything unfinished???"
"supported. too bad they won;t listen."
"here's to hoping."
"supported. i like this game, and i don't want to turn into a \"bitter vet\" in the next six months."
"supported"
"it's true. ccp has lost it's vision and it's way."
"listen to akita because he is quite right!"
"+1'ing. if i couldn't use my isk to pay with plex or gtc, i would've left years ago. maybe when eve comes out of beta, it will be worth paying for."
"supported"
"supported; sig relevant."
"+1 \"liek\" !"
"+1 supported."
"omg, this is so funny and pathetic.some graph from user about user subscription prediction because they failed at forums and because they're not fixing some old this and that? lol. well, subscription been rising since \"that\" hasn't been fixed, so? logic?akita, i saw you at the new forums - whining. i see you here, still whining and trying to make some sort of revolution, haha. i think you are a troll, smart one.look, even if you get 1000 \"support\" posts to this thread, this is even less than half percent of actual the subscription base. even if you get 10000(impossible), that's about 3% of actual subscription base. now you think, because you have no clue whatsoever what is a business plan, financing, economics, marketing, business strategy, investing & investors, etc etc etc, you are going to change what this company is and does for the last 8 years with eve online? pleasestop farting in the air with these silly threads. either leave the game, or man up, drink some concrete and go play your game"
"i have to agree, lack of quality lately is worrying."
"they see me (t)rollin', they hatin'...p.s. here's a small gift : large forum avatars userscript, in case you missed the \"new\" forums."
"you have never written a business plan...have you. i mean for real, out side of the class room."
"seems relevant to bump this forums longest and most supported thread to date."
"already supported this thread in the past.by the way, i personally thing that just having them \"commit to excellence\" is not enough.the company leadership's mindset needs to change.how that can be accomplished, i don't know, but it needs to happen, and it needs to happen soon.anybody remember that annoyingly smug comment by a ccp representative regarding the company direction ?can anybody link it ?you know the one i'm talking about... the one with \"new features sell, polished content doesn't\"....../facepalm."
"thank you akita t for being the voice of many - i have the same complains (as i have already shown) but i'm too lazy to type; your committment to getting the message across is highly supported and appreciated."
":thumbs: fix lag"
"crafts<U+FFFD>man (krftsmn)n.a man who practices a craft with great skill."
"i support the name change idea, as long as they kept people from being able to constantly do it over and over again and having some sort of name history would be nice."
"as long as 'spendingyourchildsupport' always links to that character regardless what name the character is going under these days, and it is impossible to change name to one that anyone has ever used, sure, knock yourselves out with the name changes."
"i'm not sure about allowing a name change every year. here's a potential problem with that, after several years of allowing players to change character names once a year:a player has changed the name on his main character three times, and has a large employment history. corp recruitment usually involves a lot of metagaming, so a recruiter would have to go about investigating what is essentially three characters.on the other hand, if ccp allows a one-time name change and requires a real currency fee, and the name change clearly shows up in employment history and is visible through limited api, then i guess it's not a big deal. if it's strictly a vanity name change and not a \"clean slate\" where you keep all your sp and whatnot, great.if you want a clean slate, sell your character, use an alt to buy a new character with a nicer name and the skills you want. done."
"thank you for your assistance and your support."
"in the words of yoda: \"you have to unlearn, what you have learned\". that's all well and good, but actually removing accumulated knowledge seems kinda odd to me. i don't support this at all. however, if it was something that happened, then you should lose the sp for good (not be able to reallocate it as op has stated) and obviously lose the isk you spent on the skills. thought, really, they should just lower the cost of higher grade clones."
"halariously enough that was exactly my point.reported for trolling the trolls!"
"back from the honeymoon. now for the nyx bump."
"i agree with this."
"i stoped mining cause it was boring o i suport making it funier"
"suported"
"officially ignored by csm.!! post your outrage here"
"better railguns than failguns."
"as long as it is toglablw on/off cause i really dont want it would be unrealistic"
"i support this idea."
"yep."
"interesting and solid idea, but the default colours should not be red/green, but something else more easily differentiated by colour-blind people."
"better have red green for the majority of people who are not colour blind (as it is really fast to see the difference) and make another alteration like bracket type/shape/flash rate/whatever workes best, as well so that colour blind people are also covered. i sympathise with those that can't fully diferentiate different colours but for the majority that can its pretty much the fastest good/bad indicator there is, especially in crowded information-rich enviroments. given that it makes no difference to someone who is colour blind what colour it is i see no reason to rule out useing colour for the majority that can see it and simply add other tools for those that can't."
"that could work too, i guess."
"i have been saying this since incursion 1.0old and new obsidianthough as you can see ccp is almost there with intaki. just give us our damn hippy hair back and we are good to go."
"for the record, this thread continued on the new forum:"
"especially the hair is quite bad, gallente is missing much of its former unique styles and the hair models available are mostly completely unfitting for minmatar characters."
"no proper intaki haircuts not clothes."
"i wouldn't be surprised some of the noob corp posters were a bunch of people from a secret ccp forum trolling team:p"
"more specifically, this blog from '09."
"i likey likey"
"\"methnuaght\" the best cap idea ever"
"proposing removal of -2.4% faction standing hit for killing misc unclassified objects in missions. some types of frigs (ammartar navy detectives, etc.), fighters launched by carrier, various sentry towers, random structures in mission site, all incur a -2.4% faction standings hit if you kill them. this includes the amar pos which need to be killed as mission objective in gallente antifaction missions.it makes no sense that some random frig would incur -2.4% hit, while a whole spawn of bs incur -0.02%.at one time, they all incur -0.0% standing hit. but then some wise guy figured that instead of putting in the work to make up specific standing hit values for each one, it's easier to just lump them together and slap on a big -2.4 value.most missioners have a phobia of doing faction kill missions because that one random frig or mission objective pos structure cost the same faction hit as 120 groups of faction bs spawns. someone's laziness has shaped eve for the worse. this should go."
"the structures make some sense if you think you just killed a whole bunch of potentially innocent people who were not shooting you. (although that argument doesn't work with turrets)the frigates and fighters should probably get a tuning but i would like to see the structures (maybe not turrets) stay the way they are. there is not need to kill them in most missions."
"i think perhaps you missed the part where the structures in question are the mission objectives."
"yes, and also: voting as dialog mechanism is way too limited to replace complex subject discussions and complex solution development, for instance."
"whose responsible this"
"that would be the guy that made the op, at the top."
"the question would still come back to who poses the questions for the masses to cast votes for or against. csm is supposed to be the filter that the questions/ideas go through as well as an early base touched by the devs when they come up with their own new ideas.as for abusing the nda . . . that has happened and some of the guilty people were caught (if not all)nah, as nice as the concept of everybody having a say in everything is i think that the csm is the way to gomoh, and can obvious trolls such as the grammarians and the umadbros take it someplace else? 4chan or myspace or whatever rocks they crawl home to at the end of the day?"
"this helps out on the blobbing via jump bridges, but still does nothing to pop the rancid tit of jita out of null sec's mouth.i still like jump bridges just being removed or only alliance members can use their own jump bridges better./not supported"
"adding a delay inst good as it makes it super easy for campers on the other side to **** them nice and slow one after the other. thus the change wont happen.i believe with he cost to upgrade system that a revision to the bridges length and be able to chose the destination from the bridge points would be good. with changes like these say a 10 second delay could work as a 50 man gang still would take a couple minutes not 5 seconds."
"dear csm i don't understand the way you voted on hybrids. do you feel csm can only vote yes to concrete proposals? why can you not vote to demand ccp develop a solution? is it fair to put the responsibility of balance square in the hands of the community. i think ccp should do what we pay them for, and that is to develop. csm you overrate your own importance of you think your only job is to present ccp with ready made solutions. it is negligent to ignore the persistent cries of a wide player base who recognise the hybrid issue!"
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"i don't quite follow, were you suggesting that they'd make us float around in the aether?"
"yea im tired of loosing ships to buffer overflow's and \"exception raised\" messages crashing my client, then opening petitions that are denied..."
"if ccp and transgaming could get their act together and use the mac os x crash catcher rather than a roll-your-own, we'd have an easier time reporting crash bugs.at present our only option is to turn on exceedingly verbose logging, which slows the game down by an order of magnitude."
"although i don't play under osx those that do should't be handicaped further."
"i represent this statement"
"lol, stealth osx-sucks?"
"i agree, i have to run the eve client repairer everytime i want to play the game just to get it to run, then it crashes about every half hour. do something about it please!"
"its a waste to put a client on an os that is not designed for gaming.everyone i know that wants to play games on their mac dual boots to a proper operating system for gaming.ccp dropped the linux client, and linux users adapted. no reason to spend development time for a niche market."
"the mac client is actually maintained by a third-party company that ports the new game information over to mac-accessible code.complain to that company as they can actually then fix the errors in the mac-interfacing, not ccp (or take off the skinny womens jeans and ridiculously-rimmed glasses )"
"we are in future, why we cant dye our hairs that we did today? last i checked, i saw someone have pink dye.. (or was that just a wig? :p)"
"don't want anime ***gots in my eve sorry"
"i support your right to have pink hair (though personally i won't)"
"i wanted to know why ccp change the out set towards 0.0 space it really screwed up!"
"there has been thread upon thread about this. please, do some searching next time before opening a new one :)"
"hmmm this is the one for csm feedback so seems like a dam good place to post one.... was the csm even consulted about this dumb idea?"
"well i would, but i was using a friend's computer atm, and didn't have enough time to make a offical complaint to the election csm."
"i considered making a post simply filled with q's, however i've settled on making a post telling you i considered it instead."
"supported.i'll admit that it does seem nonsensical, but we're also talking about a game world where it's possible to grind up your security status after each suicide gank."
"i too am making a quality post in a quality thread."
"i find it odd that people simply don't understand this dynamic. it's like they're raging against mathematics itself. to say nothing of the inherent inbalance of 100 players being able to destroy what 10,000 have worked for, or what have you. which also doesn't get at the fact that virtually any mechanic that allows 10 people to outfight 100 should, with just a bit of ingenuity, allow 100 to utterly dominate 10. or for those 10 dudes to be horsewhipped by two guys."
"there sure are a lot of windjammer posts in this thread, so here's one more-windjammer"
"nah, it'd be more like:i am upset that there are opinions published in editorial columns on the internet. this must stop! join me in an angry internet letter writing campaign and we will stop there being things we don't like, on the internet. rise up my brothers, rise up! write to support@tentonhammer.com and let your rage be heard!-windjammer"
"stop being a *****."
"i lived in gemi a few years ago,way before any anoms/pi or tech turning into moon goo gold.we manged to live there easily and make isk no problem.was some great pvp and fun to be had as well."
"it's not the problem of making isk.it's the problem of making less isk than people running level 4 missions."
"clearly for the sake of consistency highsec l4s will be getting removed pretty soon"
"man there is a **** ton of spergin going on in this thread all about a guy whose avatar looks like it has an extra chromosome."
"thanks for all the support everybody.please renew on the new forums as soon as they come up! i opened the same discussion there when they were open, hopefully the topic will stay."
"black ops need some type of improvement, so i support this."
"1.0"
"yeah, this. i mean, how hard is it to both polish/refine existing mechanics and introduce new content? it seems like you could basically make the two processes the same thing."
"supported.i wonder what ccp's own devs think about this clusterfluck."
"supported 100%"
"i remember saying something along these lines... in 2007!"
"poasting in the middle of the night for the sole purpose of supporting dis."
"that small irony aside , i think i agree with most of what you posted there. nice format and presentation of argument too. something i wish i was better at.those massive dips in the chart are actually, mostly, new users that get drawn in by the advertising campaign's and cool artwork, then drop as they realize the game is too hard, or doesn't meet their expectations. no surprise there. what is a surprise, is that we still haven't hit the \"...400,000 players in one universe,\" that was advertised some time ago. is that chart actually accurate? where does it come from?not that important really.supported by the way, but with the usual reservations.i like new content, and i'd like to see more. the new avatars are super nice, and the coming incarna features should add greatly to the immersion qualities of the game, or at least make it so station spinning isn't quite so uninteresting, for those of us that have a hard time with immersion.once we see the release of the incarna expansion, promised for a long time now, i would like ccp to drop any new proposals, and begin working on polishing current features. i intend to put up a thread on those features i'd like to see worked on, redone, and released fully functional.there are bugs and graphics issues that i see as a problem too. one is the effect of light on pos structures. environmental occlusion, specular effects, or whatever it is, it has to go. i have a nice pc with a gtx 460 gpu, and shouldn't be having issues like that. my pc is quite capable of rendering everything in the game, and doing it very nicely. yet, entire pos towers become big blob's of white light, that flicker and mess up my game experience at times. this happens to gates too, and has been occuring off-and-on with regularity, since the release of dominion.the new client, from 1.41 or whatever latest patch/hotfix, is also tremendously slow to start up. a full wipe of my pc's shadow cache, anti-virus sweep, and defrag has done nothing to fix it. it takes about 10x longer to start the client now, and till the hotfix, crashed 1 out of 3 times. after the hotfix, it just went back to maybe you can log in 3 times consecutively, and maybe you can't. it still takes forever to get to the splash screen.aside from those, and whatever internet maleficient is trying to hack my computer, (possibly succeeding), i don't have many problems. (i had to change one of my account's passwords and full/limited api's 3 times last week, and i'm still not sure if i got past the keylogger.) i also don't use a lot of the same game mechanics that others do. nothing sov related, no faction warfare, blob warfare, etc... there are possibly many bug's/glitches which i have never experienced.either way, i am in agreement, that a great many things need to be fixed, before eve and ccp can or should move on to develop further expansions. eve could see a year of minimal releases of new content, with all that we've seen in the last. things need to be addressed first, to satisfy current and past subscriber's, and many of them are on these forums in threads like this one.ship rebalanceindustryposfaction warfarenew features polished (character creator is working like a slug, and i think they mixed up the facial models) i.e.: ccp needs a defrag.etc...bug's and glitches cleaned up. this goes with above suggestion of a defrag, as i'm convinced many of these, are the result of poorly compiled code, or database issues. functional and working on sisi, to completely sluggish and missing/improperly placed features on tq is suggestive of this. i know the vherokior nose wasn't a pyramid shape before, so what happened? caldari/civire features, and gallente/intaki buggered too.not really important, but vherokior tuck/untuck pants in boots option was messed up too, with recent patch.lot's of fixes need to be looked at."
"no you mental midget, learn to read - what akita wants (and the rest of us want) is for ccp to go back to what made eve and ccp great for so long and to stop listening to people who:a) don't play the game...b) dont' have a clue about gameplay and...c) don't care about the game... saying stupid **** like \"polished content doesn't sell as well as new content...\" shows a real shift away from what ccp used to be.edit: to add, you do realize that our posting on the *old* disabled forums, not the new, shiny forums...?"
"supporting this because there are a mountain of things that i'd like to see ccp fix, rather than working on new crap that will come out-of-the-box pre-nerfed/underdeveloped and never get looked at again."
"hold on a second... why are we even starting this proposal if it may not be able to be seen by everyone seeing as the \"forum\" button on the website redirected to the new forums for the short stint they were operational. what happens when ccp switches back to the new forums and this gets buried as a read only thread."
"let's hope ccp let us keep using the old forums :/"
"supported as well."
"me wants functional stuff, it can look like a brick if it works well!do it the russian way!"
"signed"
"it's calling in the desert but someone has to do it ..."
"official ccp quarterly economic newsletter, q4 2010, page 8."
"time to polish content ccp. it would be nice if you remembered where not players but valued customers."
"doubt this will get read, but supported"
"right. wtf is going on in there ccp ? the last patch is .. to put it politely .. underwhelming."
"underwhelming i say!"
"nerd rage!"
"yes, my main account is still active as well. i just like doris picture better. unfortunately at this point already some of my accounts have expired with no current plan for reactivation."
"i want my excellence!"
"excellence i say!"
"ridiculous to think that this forum thread will actually even hit the radar of most of ccp's decision makers let alone convince them to do anything about it, but i agree with most of it nevertheless.less fluff marketing like \"a future vision\" (? - stuff that up your cornhole) ; more meat in the content sandwich. thanks."
"obviously i feel quite strong about it considering the amount of accounts i have voting in here."
"i agree."
"seriously ccp, get your stuff togehter."
"well, to be perfectly fair, i seriously doubt it will directly convince any of the higher-ups if they even get to see it, and i also sort of doubt many of the lower-tiered devs that might agree with it will actually do something about it (other than, you know, what they probably already were trying to do without it anyway), but in this type of situation, every little bit has a infinitesimally small chance of helping, so, you know, why not just do it...p.s. beats singing fake praises to ccp's current direction."
"quality > quantity. who ever said that ccp games is becoming another electronic arts hit the nail on the head. clean house and get rid of all the untalented money grubbing sellouts that only dream as far as the next quarter's earnings. that kind of sheisty 1980s business feck all aditude has run the global economy into the ground. don't think that those vampires wont suck the marrow from your companies bones and move on to the next feast after you are used up."
"i wholeheartedly agree about this."
"polished content sells! wait till second life in space... we're only wod beta testers."
"supported.ccp needs a new eve centric direction that makes eve great, adding things to a game isn't a path to greatness when you don't follow up or fill in the blanks. eve has many blank spots and broken features that if ccp fixed/addressed would be 'new' selling points instead of half truths about things you can do/would want to do in game. i'm sure wod and dust are to blame for eve being neglected but it isn't them alone, ccp took their eye off the ball in search of more money from eve instead of trying to keep/make their product better."
"ccp did it: ea is their rolemodel. i thought that ccp statement is a common knowledge...will support, but hardly anything will change after second \"commit to excellence\" thread, i think."
"we've been making these threads for 5 years. they didn't listen then and they wont listen now. so long as you're subscribing they wont think they need to care."
"signed"
"unsubscribed and continue posting"
"+1 support for sure... ccp needs to seriously take a look at where they are going, who their player base is, etc... i hate to say it, but the latest changes seem almost aimed at helping those that bot get ahead..."
"supported as much as i can."
"yes please."
"polished old content > new content that doesn't work well or add anything significant.please evaluate the hot topics that have been going on rather than add more stuff that needs reworking but is left as is to make even more new stuff that needs reworking."
"i support this topic."
"just here to give my full support to this thread. i have been considering pulling all accounts to a slowly failing game before i get too invested, i still enjoy playing it but as an it professional and where anyone who claims to be a professional knows that it's quality over quantity. even if it goes against the claims of your accounting/finance dept.seriously stand up for the community and fight against releasing horribly inadequate and rushed content. just as any professional hair dresser knows how to do more than give a buzz cut, so too must developers and service providers. as craftsmen your status is dictated by your work and ability to cover all bases and provide quality work in a transparent way. failing this just makes ccp as a whole appear both unprofessional and incapable of quality work. some teams of ccp are doing fantastic. incursion was great, and so too are the improvements and optimizations taking place to the engine.however this:the day the forums diedtells a very different storysecurity holes?:checkcode injection:checkuser pc threatened: checkun-encrypted cookies:checkauthentication via editable cookie:checkability to impersonate others:checkstable release: not so much tl;drdon't do this to yourselves. start caring about your customers or we promise to stop caring about you."
"i am in full support of polished content vs. rushed broken content."
"i would like to signal my agreement with akita t. she is saying what needs to be done."
"i'm hardly aware of what actually needs to be done (haven't played the game long or deep enough) and i don't care to read it all. but i know that most causes for games are good ones - unless they're pro-racist trolling or something. lol."
"the user base may be patient but i doubt that the people who hold ccp by the balls will be as understanding.iceland is all but bankrupt, their three major banks have enslaved the people of iceland by borrowing and reaching far beyond their gdp. ccp has to increase their use base and show they are successful even if the game is rotting from the inside. just keep painting over the dead wood and hope no one notices."
"tbh, considering that ccp gets nearly all their revenue from foreign sources, they have some protection.doesn't mean they weren't affected tho."
"would be ironic to see ccp sink like iceland for being greedy. (wod, dust5123123...) :d"
"eve online has tons of content already. the problem is that amount of it that is broken, or doesn't work well with newer content.i'd pay cash for expansions, even if there was only one a year (or less frequent), if it meant all the other bugs, annoyances, etc., were addressed before adding more content."
"not supported. this threadnaught is full of over dramatic bs. ccp listens and fixes stuff better than almost any company out there. stop whining that the fix you want for your style of gameplay hasn't been gotten to yet."
"i'm sorry, would that be the \"crash-free please, and also hold the incomplete features\" gameplay style you are talking about ?would you also like fries with that or maybe supersize it ?and how do you think those same people will react when income starts dropping as our slightly pessimistic estimates seem to indicate ?if ccp can't resist their pressure now, how do you think they'll do it then, and what abominations will we end up forced to live with ?"
"supporting this because it deserves to be supported, even though dear god 96 pages and ccp still rushes crap out the door. what little remaining faith i had in ccp just died i think"
"signed while i still can"
"/signed..."
"they already acknowledged this thread with words last fan fest.time to acknowledge it with actions.talk is cheap."
"fix lag? so, we can pile even more players in a system? they are always 'fixing' lag. lag becomes irritating when there're only 100-200 in system, like after dominion when 50 vs 50 fights were almost impossible. now we can pile over 1000 in system with manageable lag."
"supported"
"from here.from page 6 of csm-ccp meeting minutes."
"i wonder if 100+ pages of hate might get ccps attention."
"yes."
"seems you win"
"this is feeding a symptom.the symptom is everyone crowding in one system.what we need is 200 people in 10 systems fighting for sov and with each other.. not 2000 people all in the same system / 2 systems not fighting each other. if you blob you should fail and lose sov.. (yes you are going to need to organise and run multiple fleets to win, fun stuff).this is the only way forward which is sustainable.it however requires devs to grow a brain and create a multifaceted sov system not based on all sit here in one system and grind timers, this is not fun and is not a sandbox and will always cause this problem. a first step helpful step in this would also be for the nc to realise this is the problems, and stop blobbing and whining about the lag they cause and then demanding action to fix the symptom they created.as such i do not support this idea as it fixes nothing."
"supported. currently lag turns a large fight in to a multiple billion isk dice roll, and anyone coming in to the party late doesn't get to play. i'd rather be annoyed at extremely slow moving ships than the hellish conditions currently going on.also, eve: bullet time may knock out one of the reasons to blob people don't like to mention: if you fill a system with your fleet, the enemy can't load before they are dead and the \"grid holders\" win by default. swap that out for a situation where people would have to fight or flee in slow motion, and they will either live with it or come up with ways to not have everyone on grid at once."
"a buffer is nothing without something backing it up. a tank only matters when you're being shot at, gank always helps. who cares if you have double the ehp, but paying for that with having half the dps, one third the speed, no dronebay, the agility of a glacier...being obvious bait is not a role.are you aware that a rail thorax(or even a laserax) outdamages an omen at that range? the same is true of a caracal, or a shield rupture.not only do those ships outperform it at it's intended role, but they also have the flexibility that it doesn't. there is no reason to pick an omen over another cruiser unless you can't fly them."
"not supported.where is the ccp that is capable of producing balanced content? everything they have touched the last 3 years has turned into ****.fix all the damn bugs. ccp is incapable of producing quality content. just leave it alone before they **** it up even more."
"thanks for the bump."
"i think we need more options for api access. specifically, control over what parts of the api the key has access to.i propose a new api key level called \"custom\" that would provide checkboxes on the website for us to select what sections of the api will be available through that key. additionally, it should allow us to select what characters on the account are available through the key, though it does not have to provide these on a per-character basis.this would make it possible to strip down a key to just your char/corp/killmails so that you do not have to provide a full director/ceo's key to killboards. many other advantages would be gained by having a customizable api.i think its important that the \"full api\" key stays intact, and that an additional key is created for this, or, the 'limited api' key becomes the customizable one."
"/supported"
"supporting for reasons i've repeated too many times to re-iterate here."
"to be honest if gallente could fit a full rack of neutrons on more regular pvp ships without completly giving up their tank it would be enough for me.i kinda like the ideea of close range ****face guns even if i might get kited to hell if the other guy is smart but you can't really fairly compare neutrons with 425mm acs when you can't fit almost any tanked gallente ship with neutrons.also not being able to fly 5 heavies with any command ship or even the t3 with drone subsystem seems pretty dumb to me, not that i ever fly those."
"if you think gallente are fine you're dumb. gallente desperately need to be looked at, and the issue of balancing is close to the heart of csm6."
"most of us know it makes a very long time these threads exist and that ccp doesn't admits something must be done.it's a long road before they do something but knowing you'll put this on the table soon is a good step for all of us."
"best news i heard all week!and may i suggest that csm6 purchase a megathron model from eve store, and paint \"spanking megathron\" on the side and bring it to all csm meetings? whenever someone says gallente are fine, spank them with the mega!"
"white tree is dumb.just single handedly boosting something because some test guys yell about it doesn't mean it needs boost. actually some gallente ships are outright ridiculously overpowered in many situtations. compared to caldari which has like draek and tech 3 draek.if you think caldari are fine you are white tree.please ignore"
"tell me more about these overpowered gallente ships. i must know their names."
"a blaster mega is fine for what it's made to do.if you can use it after what it's made to do and if you just can htfu a little and have balls to take more risks in pvp, then you are fine with a blaster mega.the blaster mega is just an example though."
"this is the truth , caldari ships especially rail ones suck much more than any gall ones , at least those can be fitted and still use some drones and moves faster so maybe buff both races + add a giga huge matar nerf and balance should be just fine"
"i like the way i've historically agreed that caldari needed improvements to their t2 lines, never really disagreed with that but me supporting needed improvements to gallente is apparently the same as me telling caldari pilots they don't need attention.that being said, there are a grand total of [1] gallente subcaps that're called for on fleets. the lachesis. unlike caldari who do have some decent options. the tengu, the drake, the scorpion, the falcon, the blackbird, the manticore, etc, etc. if you want me to go into your caldari thread and and support your changes to caldari then post a caldari thread. this is the gallente thread. i am posting in the gallente thread."
"i can support this."
"thank you both for your support - i hope that together we can help fix fof missiles and make them a weapon system to be proud of!"
"it isn't.give them some time to set their agenda and wait the report from next summit before you post things like this."
"omg please. <3"
"i, and a fair number of other players, feel that the recent updates blind-sided the userbase. not only was pirate jamming \"streamlined\" (read: made rediculous) without prior testing on sisi, but the new server-side fitting management change happened without any player testing or feedback. not only is it incredibly cumbersome to deal with fittings that do not fit within the maximum 50 (delete saved fitting, import from client-side, wherever it might be) but a fair number of users now have no access to their fittings at all because the fitting migration window flat-out does not work. select fittings to be saved, or select none, click ok, and nothing happens; the window stays put, unresponsive, until you close it. every time you click browse in the fitting window, it brings up the same useless migration window, preventing all access to any fits at all.this is made worse by the fact that the mac client in the past was never able to import or export fittings, and that the fittings that were saved with the client data were not and still are not accessible at all in any folder. i've searched through everything, and i do mean everything, i never found where the fittings were supposedly saved to. so basically, all of my fittings are now effectively gone.had ccp put these changes into effect on sisi prior to implementing them on tranquility, these issues likely could have been sorted out and the affected players would not be so ticked off.threads here, here and now here have already been made with a number of players expressing their supreme discontent with the situation, and yet neither mod nor dev has responded to either of them.the complete disregard for seeking and responding to player feedback on this issue is, needless to say, quite disturbing."
"it looks like some dev in ccp has gone rogue and somehow managed to implement \"his\" vision of eve. i mean like wtf. no sisi testing, complete turnaround in null sec vision they had, basically no q&a. and on top of all that no meaningful communication about why things change, wtf happened and so on. my faith in ccp competence is being hit quite considerably. i cant remember from the past 6 years so ... crappy expansion. and yes i do remember \"boot.ini\". seriously ccp. get your **** togehter before it reaches that big fan in the bottom."
"does nobody else see a problem with this? does nobody else feel the need to hold ccp developers accountable for their egregious and willful ignorance of product testing and customer feedback?"
"i don't see a problem with it. in fact, for ccp to do otherwise would be for them to break the habit of a lifetime; so, not supported, sorry"
"so it's ok for ccp to have completely broken an important feature of the game for many people, and not even acknowledge that people are really ticked off about it? sure, now it's only fittings. maybe later though, it will be bookmarks, and all of your bookmarks will become completely inaccessible. some day, they may break another important feature without having it up on sisi for player testing and feedback, and put it through to the release where many people encounter the problem and have to raise a ragestorm about it.it's not only about the fittings. it's about what this screw-up means for future releases. and that's a problem."
"1.0"
"i agree that new features, bug fixes or game design changes should be tested in sisi first. this gives people time to find issues (npc ecm for example), or at least get some idea of the impact of a change on their gameplay.csm should at least be consulted about whether a proposed change can go straight to production, otherwise all non-security related changes should be tested in singularity first."
"i miss my long hair"
"we're also going to need more tattoo colors. i took a bunch of sebiestor names from facecardgame.com/eve and looked them up on evefaces.com, and white seems to have been a pretty popular tattoo color."
"still missing my old tattoos: linkagealso some kind of proper minmatar clothing and some general light settings would be nice.edit: forget to support."
"fixed:"
"windjammer, the players control the game as much as they should be allowed to. ccp must and i repeat, must maintain a certain amount of control of the game or it will spiral out of control."
"in any good sci-fi game, movie, tv show, books, even game bored, the security forces respond to a threat with perfect force needed, which concord does very well. what i have noticed that they do not do, is rep a ship getting ganked. wouldn't an organization meant to keep the peace and proved help to someone under an illegal attack, attempt to do more then kill the person who is attacking them? give me your thoughts on this csm people, and players.i am not saying we need to keep the ship alive, but concord should rep a ship under attack until the attacking ship is gone.dont say its a bad idea just because you do just this thing. if ccp wants eve to be the best, most realistic, mmo out there, then they should fix this issue in some way."
"this won't help, unless you want a rr concord ship arriving immediately, before others. as soon as concord arrive, they jam the ganker. the point of suicide gank with anything other than smartbombs is to get it done before concord arrives."
"but instantly-appearing, remote repairing spaceships would be so *realistic*!how about when you're attacked, concord show up 3-10 hours later, proceed to photograph your wreck, gently make fun of you for not fitting a tank, and report your loot as stolen. then, absolutely nothing happens to the perp! that sounds much more realistic."
"sounds a good idea, but there's so much more that needs to be done.-low sec moons harvesting-low sec end ores random spawn-officers spawn -maybe at cruiser/bc size and not easy to get down without at least 1 bs-mission sites protect from scan -could make more people come and we can always get a way to spank them, but at least they have a chance to succeed and we will just need to work a little bit more than just get the ****ing probes out and \"warp to\"-choke points like gates with random spawn of local faction forces (if there is any station in that system) according to the number of ships involved there are so many things to be done so many ideas, it's just up to ccp to polish the ancient content and give some freshness. i'm pretty sure this would profit to the whole community and not only a few ones/game style"
"surely it has been proposed countless times, but here it is again, destroy the ugly ship designs and start anew. with shader 2.0 getting dropped and new nebulae being introduced shortly, it seems like the right time. let's not forget they originated from a very early version of the game, back when ccp had a small team with limited talent and imagination. 8 years later it's about time we get an update. by the way, it's not because a ship is named scorpion, that it has to look like a scorpion..."
"what?! you don't think the raven is a work of art?! the dominix isn't the most amazing space potato of all time?! /syah, you're probably right, they need some new redesigns and far higher res textures. go all the way ccp, lets get some tessellation in here as well."
"not supported. those timeless classics should be preserved. the space potato must be immortalized."
"i disagree with you on this. they redesigned ships in the past to make up for mistakes and they've changed textures before to add detail and improve the look of the game. we're not asking them to replace these ships, only to change the designs to fix small mistakes and create more detail for the game moving forward by taking advantage of newer advances in graphics technology."
"i find it sad that as long as its been since the newer tiers of t1 ships have appeared, drake, cane, hyperion, etc., that we have yet to see these ships in missions. my proposal is that ccp create new missions that use these ships or at the least edit existing missions and incorporate these newer ships into them.thoughts?"
"tier 3 hulls like maelstrom, hyperion, and abaddon are used in epic arcs. new normal missions haven't been made in a long time."
"which is ridiculous considering that mission runners make up a significant portion of the eve playerbase. but, eve if they don't want to create new missions, at least make them avalable to replace other ships in the current missions."
"dont like critique??"
"recently, individual income in 0.0 has been nerfed repeatedly.first, you nerfed officers by keeping the same spawn and drop rates but making the officers require multiple carriers to kill (or worse in terms of individual income, a gang of subcaps). this leaves individuals unable to kill officers they find unless (like me) they happen to be quite well-off already and own several capital-capable accounts-- the average single-player is forced to split the loot at least two ways.second, you nerfed belt spawn characteristics. cleared belts now seem to take at least half an hour to respawn. as with the officer spawn stats, rat spawning mechanics seem otherwise unchanged, meaning even good truesec (i tested in a -0.8 system) systems still spawn tons of worthless cruiser / bc spawns, but now, because of the respawn timer change, it takes far, far longer to get a system \"chained up\" and profitable than it used to.lastly, you nerfed sanctum spawning. the -0.8 system i checked tonight had only one, lone sanctum in it. piles of havens and worse sites, but one sanctum.i assume these changes were put in place in order to nerf botting income (since most bots in 0.0 belt-rat), but look at it from a non-botter perspective-- i still want to make money in eve online: a science-fiction themed space mmorpg, but now it takes 3 hours at a time just to get a system chained up for ratting, there's far less sanctums to go around (even though upgraded systems were generally overcrowded even prior to the nerf), and the only remaining, non-highsec mission running alternatives-- incursions and exploration-- both require massive time investments.incursions usually require you to move your ships all the way across eve before you even start making money (this takes a lot of time) and you generally have to be able to play eve for the 2-3 hours immediately following downtime to actually run profitable sites-- something not everyone can actually do (for me, living on the west coast of the us, incursion fleets usually take place between 04:00 and 07:00, not the ideal time to be playing eve).exploration requires boatloads of time spent scanning, multiple accounts with very capable characters, and competition for valuable sites is intense. one can often scan for hours and not find a single profitable signature (that someone else hasn't beaten you to). this is particularly true on weekends, since more people (including myself) are able to play eve for longer hours.to sort of sum this up, belt ratting now takes too much time for the casual player. sanctums are now more overcrowded than ever, and are less accessible to the casual player. exploration takes up too much time for a casual player and requires an extensive array of characters and ships to do solo. officer hunting and incursions are, for the most part, post-dt activities which most people don't get to participate in unless they can literally plan their lives around eve downtimes.of all income-generating activities, i would argue that various forms of ratting are the most accessible to casual players (exploration, market games, import export, moon goo projects etc all require even more time investment in terms of time spent probing, micromanaging market orders, setting up cyno chains for logistics, flying freighters around etc etc etc). the recent changes, then, have made even the most accessible forms of income generation less accessible to casual players. this is going to make more casual players want to bot than ever before. the more exasperating and time consuming you make income generating activities, the more incentive there is to automate the process.i know ccp frown on people submitting specific proposals for game improvements, but if you want people to stop botting you're going to have to provide some kind of practical alternative to those of us who don't feel like replacing our real lives with at-keyboard gold-farming: (to be continued in a 2nd post)"
"...here are some general points that i think could use some rethinking:- 0.0 income sources are finite, as opposed to infinite like empire sources (in 0.0 the population of an area competes for limited belts; sanctums; cosmic signatures; production slots (in theory); etc; while in empire every mission runner gets unlimited, private missions; there are brazillions of available slots for industrial stuff; and so on).- the entire space empire 0.0 sov-holding game now revolves around supercaps. supercaps, in turn, require giant sums of spacebux which people are being *strongly* encouraged to earn *somehow*.- several isk making opportunities seem skewed in favor of those who can play eve immediately after downtime; find a way to remedy this.e: what you can't do is continue with this, \"everyone buy supercaps, t3 cruisers and machariels if you wish to remain relevant in pvp\" *nerfs income streams* *makes isk-making even more horrendous* *bans bots* *bans isk-buyers* *expects people to keep paying 14 realbux / month to play goldfarmer online* approach. not everyone bought millions of npc-seeded guidance systems the week before tyrannis."
"maybe bot people will code more advanced bots that actually behave like humans. random intervals.. random clicking spots.... but randomized so that each bot will have its own bahivoural pattern. bots could be having a break... opening links pasted in corp chat.. troll on forums... hell maybe they can manage to have a complete set of bots to create a corp and who'd chat with each other about different ingame issues... working together for a common goal... file petitions about lost ships.. etc.. :d"
"ah yes, the \"casual player\" can't afford to replace his own personal supercap losses by belt rating.there are people in this game that think this is a problem somehow, holy ****."
"you realize that the cheapest standard fleet battleship setups cost several hundred million a pop now, right?to elaborate, ratting today in a good truesec system (-0.8) with an extremely capable ship, i was making about 5 million isk per 20 minutes. 5 million. that means to afford losing, say, a maelstrom, now requires about 13 hours worth of ratting.that seems a bit ****ing steep. would it require less time doing exploration? probably less than 13 hours, but my point is that exploration, incursions, etc aren't things you can do in short sessions, or (in the case of incursions) even at any time of the day."
"maybe the faction items drop rate and their meta or small officers spawn rate could get a little +.actually the more rats are killed in one system more chances you have to get officers spawns, when you see full belts disappear in a few hours in high sec and none in low sec of course your chances to get some profitable loot will come bigger in high sec with 0 risk to get spanked.now if i do agree the individual income will be lower i also think ccp didn't get the job done if they wanted to nerf the isk income in certain zones/systems/regions.is this the way or the first step to make big alliances/corps share the titanic isk incomes with members i don't know, but obviously the individual or small roamers gets hurt in his wallet while the sanctums/heavens runners/moon harvesters etc will not see that much change and far the ones who will not feel the pain.editmy question for you is, why the hell a 0.0 pilot would rate in high sec even if he's a casual one?you have more chances to get ganked/ninja/grief/concorden in high sec and there is nothing you can do."
"not supported.that fleet setup should be replaced by the alliance, so whether the pilot can easily replace it or not is inconsequential. if you can't afford to lose it, you probably shouldn't be flying anyway (or so it goes).you want better space, with better isk? fight for it.else get the top to share the moon income.clear case of working as intended. it getting rid of bots is a nice plus."
"5m isk per 20 minutes in a -0.8 system? then you are really doing something wrong.when i read the topic title i expected an incoherent rant why botting should be ignored, etc, but actually i was pleasantly surprised. because he is right, these things that according to some are done against botting hurt normal players alot, everything that hurts normal players promotes botting.i personally consider at least 80% of the botting problem to come from supercaps. they are needed to compete in eve sov warfare today, hell they are the most dominant factor. the most realistic way to get your supercap army is simply a few bots."
"the phrase \"chicken and egg\" springs to mind here.botting and sanctum-farming enabled mass supercap production, so now it's \"we need botting and sanctum farming to compete with those guys who have all those supercaps\".changes to the eve economy will always be non-linear, but there was always going to have to be some point at which the isk gusher was throttled back. sucks to be the guys who didn't quite get their nyx, but no-one said life - or eve - was always going to be fair."
"in other words the only pilots who should be able to take part in fleet pvp are those belonging to alliances sitting on vast passive income streams such as technetium/neo moons. gotcha."
"this.maybe folks will start to be a little more cautious and extra careful about how they spend their isk'ies eh?not supporting."
"incorrect. the correct reading should be: \"fly only what you can afford to lose, supercaps were meant as alliance level assets, not personal toys\"i don't know where you got the idea that you were entitled to have your personal supercap, my terms of service sure didn't mention it.then again, if i wanted one, and was in a big alliance like say, goonswarm, then it stands to reason that i could fly to get whatever space i wanted to support my supercap habit. or get better 0.0, or whatever.the only response to botting is one strike banning. the only response to \"waaah waaah i want my supercap!\" is htfu and go fight for the land that would give you one."
"i don't think you \"get\" how this game works, which, frankly, doesn't surprise me in the least; you have no corp or alliance tag, no killboard history whatsoever, and the only things that pop up when i google your character name are a bunch of whiny, anti-botting posts on these forums.first, since you seem obsessed with the idea of ratting for supercaps rather than for money to spend on internet spaceships in general, lets clear something up. noone (well, a minority of people) really enjoys owning and flying a supercap. they're a ***** to buy, a ***** to maintain (turns out not being able to dock or go anywhere without an army of cyno and logistics alts is a pain, who knew?), and, with a few exceptions, don't see much use for tasks outside fleet combat (which generally consists of \"jump into a system, watch your corpmates shoot undefended structures while you assist with meager sentry drone damage\"). it's a running joke in our alliance that buying supercaps tends to rapidly free people from the shackles of playing eve online, and not without good reason-- for the most part, flying supers is really boring. i'd also add that, certainly in our case, supercaps are not funded by the alliance-- there are some small subsidies involved for say, fighter bombers etc that add up to a bil or two, and that's about it-- it falls to individual members to provide the rest of the cash.so, you say, why in the name of god are you trying to afford an absurdly expensive ship that has little practical use to an individual alliance member? the answer is that if, as an alliance, you don't have a giant army of these dumb ships available, you're pretty well hosed as far as your ability to hold onto your space-- let alone take new space-- is concerned. they are literally a necessity and due to their extraordinary expense, even the richest alliances (and i count my own as one of them at this point, om nom nom, technetium) can't afford to bankroll their construction in large numbers while still paying their massive sov bills and funding other player programs like reimbursements (which, by the way, are increasingly necessary due to the aforementioned individual income nerfs).the fact that even a tech-rich alliance can't afford to fund supercap construction on a large scale should say quite a bit about what other alliances can probably afford.but all this is missing the original point of my post-- this isn't a supercap focused post, its a \"why is ccp trying so hard to keep poor people in 0.0 poor\" post. fun fact-- most people who rat (or bot for non-rmt reasons) don't do it to fund personal supercap losses, they do it to fund normal combat losses. like vagabonds. yeah, really exotic stuff. it's the sort of person who isn't rich and who loses a couple of hacs each month (hence my frequent references to \"casual players\") that suffers the most from these nerfs."
"sounds like your problem of having supercaps and them infringing on your fun is well on its way to being resolved then. another good move by ccp!if you can't afford the ships you fly then you probably shouldn't fly them, by the way. if your alliance leadership is making unreasonable demands, then that would be the problem, as well.and if they are encouraging or facilitating botting, then you should report them.finally, there is more valuable space but you would probably fight for it instead of just be handed it to you.i see a lot of problems in your post and proposal, but none of them is you not being able to make enough isk. and none of them is solved by your proposal, either.but hey, \"i\" don't get eve, the game that is supposed to be \"hard\". after all, it is 'i' who is whining about my personal supercap or it being \"hard\" to get one. or about how casual people can't afford top of the line pvp ships with fittings (protip: there are cheaper ships out there than vagabonds). what i'll say is that last i checked this wasn't hello kitty online where you get handed alliance level toys (that make you miserable, the alliance doesn't pay for, and you seem to hate yet you still somehow \"need\").i would recommend, if you want easy mode with respawning ships at no effort to you, that you should probably play battlestar galactica online. the ships there respawn when destroyed, and no need to grind for plex, or nasty supercaps to make you miserable, either."
"no really, are you being intentionally thick? why do you keep rambling about botting for supercaps when the point i'm trying to make is as simple as \"making it harder to get x will encourage people to find and use illegal workarounds that will allow them to get x.\"noone said eve should be easy, but when it gets to the point where affording totally boring, space-middle class stuff requires that you spend as much time playing eve as you do at your irl job, people are probably going to find something better to do with their time.also, what exactly do you take issue with when it comes to my actual proposals (if you can call them that), which were:1. make 0.0 at least on-par with empire space in terms of individual income generation for casual players by implementing some form of \"private\" content (much like an empire mission or the 10/10 escalations that occur off sanctums occasionally--where you get a bookmark to a site that is yours; other players can't probe it out)2. reduce the strategic necessity of supercaps so players feel don't feel the same level of obligation to bot for giant boring ships (you and i agree that there should be fewer supercaps, and they should be reserved as high-level alliance assets, not made available-- sometimes through botting-- to every pilot who wants one)3. find a way to avoid limiting certain activities to certain specific times of the day, thus favoring whatever group of people happens to be able to play eve at a certain time.i don't see how you could honestly think any of these things is a bad idea, unless of course you simply don't have any experience with any of them and are simply talking out of your ass.i'd also like to point out that my issues with individual income are only with the effects of ccp's most recent changes (starting with the officer buff... /nerf, depending on how you look at it). i had no problem with the level of income that was available prior to these changes, so don't put words in my mouth re: me whining that ships need to be free."
"nice argument you got there.first, 0.0 is at least on par with empire space already, and depending on its true sec, vastly superior. i don't believe all space should be the same or you should have free candy dispensers everywhere, though. there is also npc nullsec with agents, who pay a lot better than empire. of course, there would be risk involved .second, this is already reducing the strategic need of super caps: if nobody can afford them, then there will be less of them. i don't think ccp is done with working on that, but getting rid of easy personal supercaps is a great start.third, agree on it being screwed that things favor those who can only play after downtime. that is a decent proposal and you should probably release it on its own.there you go. by the way, i don't see the logic behind thinking that officers should be as weak as regular bs when their value is far superior, or that all income generation should be soloable. more crying about not having things silver plattered to you, imho.of course you had no problem with previous income, it was ridiculous by any measure with the described situation of personal supercaps and cyno alts for everyone . why would someone like you who plays the game on hard have a problem with that! and again, you act as if there is no way to improve your lot. there are plenty.let me think, 0.0 is about wars, so why not fight for better space? naah that would be too hard for hello kitty online, wouldn't it?finally, the solution to \"making it harder to get x will encourage people to find and use illegal workarounds that will allow them to get x\" is not making things easier, but banning said people and the alliances that encourage and foment this. some work has been done in the subject, i believe.please forward me your tos and eula, i am interested in the version you got that promises free space high class for casuals with no effort and caps for everyone."
"tell me how a fully upgraded, -0.8 system with 20 belts yielding 15m/hr in belt rat bounties and having one available sanctum is equal to an empire missioning system? one can support exactly one player at a passable amount of income, a couple of people making awful money in the belts, and that's about it. oh by the way, all those upgrades and maintenance fees cost a buttload of cash, whereas the empire dwellers pay nothing for a system that can support an effectively unlimited number of ratters. oh, and they didn't have to conquer their space either.as far as **risk**, yeah, you've got me nailed down-- i'm a totally risk-averse eve player. i p much never leave highsec.except for the fact that tons of people already have them, and its only newcomers who are getting screwed by these changes, ok, yeah.i will if i have to, its p dumb.again, i don't know if you noticed, but the *value* of officer spawns is unaffected by the changes to officers! the value of the drop is related to the rarity of the items (in turn related to the rarity of officer spawns in general). whats changed is the value of finding an officer spawn to most players-- where a lucky newbee used to be able to kill an officer if they found one (and profit from the lovely loot), now the newbee has to call in either 10 of his newbee friends or pay some rich ******* like me (who has carriers around) a large portion of the drop to actually collect any of his isk. the value created is the same, only now it's either split between more people in the case of an average ratter, or requires previously unnecessary hassle to collect if one is well-equipped. for the rich guy, its a pain. for the poor guy, its at least 50% less-profitable. i don't see many people winning on this one.some form of justification here would be nice? i really doubt that the majority of funding for most supercaps came from ratting income, but you seem to enjoy focusing on the \"people rat for supercaps\" gimmick rather than the \"average people rat for most of the things they buy\" angle.not arguing that botters shouldn't be rooted out and dealt with. never disputed this point. i'm merely suggesting that maybe the way to deal with botters is to... and this was kind of a leap, i know, um... deal with botters? you know, as opposed to nerfing all ratting income into the ground. i'm sure darius can find a technical solution when hes not snorting wasabe."
"...but yeah until ccp can find a technical, final solution to the botting problem i don't see why the rest of us should have to deal with crushing nerfs to a good way of replenishing our isk-reserves in a timely fashion.personally, my question to you is this: why do you hate botters so much that you're willing to sacrifice a bunch of your potential income to see them become less (though still) profitable? ironically, as far as the ratting changes are concerned, botters are the least-affected portion of the population, since by definition they don't care how long it takes them to chain up a system and make money-- it's free."
"christ, that's awful, you can do better running l4 missions in high sec."
"i realize this post is intended to be about botting, but it's also leaning very heavily toward a disagreement about the recent anomalies changes, so i don't feel too off topic saying what i'm gonna say despite my omision of botting.sometimes i really get the feeling that people are not aware of the costs of living and owning space in 0.0. and i'm not just talking about the costs of ships and time to win, patrole, and keep it. i'm talking about upgrading systems, paying upkeep on those systems, and cultivating them to produce.over a year ago, when ccp changed the way sovereignty worked, it was a god send. no more pos spamming, no more \"we killed 20 poses in the system this weekend, but they managed to anchor one before downtime - now we have to wait another 48 hours for it to come out of reinforced mode to even try to take the system again\". it made more sense; it made gameplay easier, yes, but also more fair and accessible.and with that new system of ihubs and sovereignty blockers, as well as entrapment arrays and leveling up systems military/strategic/industry levels and capabilities, just about everyone except the ceo's and directors of 0.0 alliances managed to overlook something. owning a system isn't really owning a system, it's more like renting a system. and if you want that system to be useful (strategically as well for industry and ratting) you have to dump more money into it both in upgrades and in daily/weekly/monthly operational fees.each upgrade for a system runs in the hundreds of millions. on top of that, the higher you go up the upgrade tree, the more it costs the the bigger they get (500mil for level 5 upgrades). for level 5s you need a freighter (read freighter, not jump freighter) to transport them. so that's billions in upgrades, as well as risking billions flying a freighter through low/null sec or else you have to trying to find a wh that might make it a little bit safer.these were all risks that make sense and were worthwhile because the reward was the understanding that doing so provided a reliable source of income. the problem with the new system in which true-sec in 0.0 systems determines the anomalies present is that it's taking systems that used to produce and turning them into isk pits. because we (read the population of players in 0.0) thought we'd be able to have reliable ratting in any system we upgraded, stations started popping up everywhere - even in places you wouldn't have dreamed of putting one pre-ihub because it was never worth it - the upgrades made it worth doing.now a -0.4 system that used to provide enough isk in tax from ratting to support it's upgrades is almost empty - there's not a single haven or sanctum to be found. the six belts hardly provide enough rats for a belt chainer because of the longer respawn time. of the 14 anomalies present, 2 of them spawn a couple battleships at the end.the way i see it, the problem is more that they've made the requirements for havens/sanctums to spawn in the system much to low. if there was at least 1 haven or sanctum in a fully upgraded system, no matter the sec status, that might make a little more sense. but paying billions in fees and upgrades just to have 8 more hubs and dens - which new pilots \"grow\" out of in a month or two - seems counter productive to me.in my opinion, ccp might as well remove haven and sanctums from null space and stick them low sec - then we'll have a lot of \"good fights\" and the global amount of isk in the game will decrease to a \"ccp-approved\" level because of all the replacement ships people have to buy.when i first got involved in the game i loved it because it was a \"sand-box\" game where the developers didn't want to control every aspect of it. but now they're trying to reduce and control the amount of isk in the game. they're trying to incite wars for space - the greatest thing eve pilots could do is go passive and refuse to pvp until changes are made. non-violent protesting."
"a couple of thoughts.... 1.) how many havens does your system have? from personal experience, only counting bounties, chaining sanctums easily earns 30-100m/hr. chaining havens will earn you 25-60m/hr. this is plenty of isk, and i would claim that every 2 anoms more than supports 1 person. 2.) i don't think ccp meant for belt income to happen via chaining up belts. personally, while i fully admit that it greatly increases income, it feels like an exploit. i wonder if the changes are made to limit chaining, or belt ratting overall. i'll test it this weekend! 3.) atm, super proliferation is a huge sov warfare problem. if they can limit null sec income to be more profitable than lvl 4's, but not stupid gushing faucets that make isk unimportant, i'm all for it. i think that's one of the first steps needed to reduce supers. would it be so terrible if a 200 man battle with 20b in losses actually took the participants 5 hours (as opposed to 1 hr) to recover?"
"please."
"i...don't even"
"right, because we want another wow clone for which we would have to pay for new expansions, and blizzard has time and resources available to devote to a competing product at a price that ccp can afford to pay, and valve is actually interested in devoting time and resources to an mmo, something they have no experience with, as opposed to working on new games like half-life 2 episode 3 et. al. sorry, but i'm going to have to say \"no\". not only haven't you expressed any supporting arguments for such a proposal to be made, you haven't considered any of the implications of eve being outsourced to another company for development. if anything, quality would probably decline rather than improve by adding third parties into the process, if that was your point."
"quality.i dont recall blizzard publishing beta stuff... nor valve."
"soon to be successful troll is soon to be successful"
"valve has no experience and no interest in developing mmo's. this lack of experience would lead to quality problems as they grapple with juggling two different genres at once.bizarre creations was known for project gotham racing. they were then tasked with making a 007 espionage shooter, with absolutely no experience in that genre. what happens when you force a company outside of its area of expertise? failure. bizarre creations went under after the 007 game flopped. we lost a good company because of that.i suppose you haven't experienced the many bugs that wow has had over the years. neither have i, to be honest, because i never played again after trying it for 7 minutes and 53 seconds. it's a boring, dull, mindless grind-fest of a game. but i've heard plenty of people moan and complain over bugs and balance issues that never seem to get resolved. blizzard has more staff and more money; they can afford to have more people to work on fixing bugs as they arise.ccp does not have that kind of money. they cannot afford to hire that many developers just for finding and fixing every problem that may arise. they cannot afford to pay blizzard to do it for them because it amounts to the same thing. they have to go to war with the army they have right now, not the army they want or might have in the future.point being, it's unreasonable to think that outsourcing development for the sake of improving quality would even be a practical option for ccp. i won't stand here and defend the many bugs that seem to have gone overlooked for a very long time, or their blatant disregard for player testing and feedback. but outsourcing to another company isn't the solution to the problem."
"umm, no."
"supported."
"those of us in fw know that it's broken, hell i'd wager even those who aren't in fw know it's broken. almost no one plexes, it's filled with carebears and carebear alts who's sole purpose is to run missions in inty/sb combos and get maximum reward for almost no risk, system occupancy has no meaning, and new players are completely lost when they get in because the nature of pvp is so centralized that spies are both useful and plentiful, making it impossible for newbs to get past security measures.fw is supposed to be about pvp, easily accessible for all. however the mechanics work contrary to this purpose, and after talking with some of my fellow fwers, i've come up with some fixes that i think would make fw a more enjoyable experience for all.1) give substantial lp rewards for plexing. plexing should be a great, if not the best, source of small gang pvp in fw. the gates limit ship sizes that can come in, and there are so many around that it would help spread out available forces. however almost no one does it. why? there are no incentives to plex. you have npc ewar that completely imbalances pvp situations in favor of the system owner, and you get zero rewards from plexing besides vp which basically amounts to bragging rights over how much time you spend orbiting a button. giving people an actual tangible resource (lp that buys rewards) to fight over in plexes will greatly increase the amount of people willing to do it.2) greatly increase the lp rewards for killing enemy ships. the current lp rewards for ships are a joke. eve revolves around gang warfare and yet the only people who get lp rewards for ship kills are the lucky person who do top damage on the kill. lets make it actually worthwhile to go out and risk your ship in constant combat with the enemy militia.3) nerf fw missions. so we have these great resources with which to stimulate pvp in fw, namely the ownership and sale of fw specific items like the tier1 navy bs, and exclusive mods in the fw store. however, the primary method for acquiring these items is through regular missioning that has been perfected into a science that makes sure there is almost zero risk involved for the missioner. there are people who have alts in fw just to make money. they do nothing but mission constantly, never participate in fights, and get killed maybe once in a year due to some freak accident. there's a reason you see over 200 in militia chat and can barely get 15 into a pvp fleet. hell, one pirate corp in gallente fw space has fw alts specifically to run missions so they can make isk to buy things to kill us with. there's no greater risk than gang warfare for the faction warrior, yet he has no reason to pvp as such, because he could make even more isk being a carebear with an interceptor and a stealth bomber (or just a stealth bomber if you're in minmatar or caldari fw). more people will go out to pvp if there's actually a reason to do so.4) give large rewards for both system ownership and capture. beyond just plexing for reward, people should want to capture systems, so that you actually have an interest in stopping enemy plexers as well as doing your own plexing. there should be some bonus to system ownership like increased bounties and sec status boost from rats, or any number of things, and have them apply to players with good standing towards the relevant faction, not just fwers. also captures should give lots of lp to those involved in the fight and successful takedown of the bunker.5) create penalties to losing systems. there needs to be some cost to players in losing systems. the most tangible would be losing docking rights at all stations in an enemy controlled system for players with bad standing towards the occupying faction and/or relevant npc militia corp. this would make fw relevant in its designated space, and also make it much more difficult for outside entities to come in and spoil the fun for everyone without picking a side and sticking with it."
"if fw warfare is about pvp and easy accesibility to all, then it's already accomplished its job. easy isk to replace ships (missions), and free wardec (lots of targets).recruitment ad: if you want to awesome pvp without killing your sec status, then join fw! free war dec, easy isk (missions).specific comments:1. farmers would then plex. same complaints would continue.2. nobody does plexes because they are gawd-awful boring. farmers would still do them because they would bring in substantial isk rewards. and they would still bail at first sign of trouble - leading to more whinage by those people who like to fight.3. and no, they wouldn't fight for a plex, they would move on to an empty system and run an empty plex there instead. nobody is going to fight when they know they are going to die. this is what happened when caldari alts ran plexes to raise standings and then make billions off of cosmos missions. the difference now is that fw missions pay better for the time invested than those same cosmos missions.4. and finally, you are proposing to ruin my second greatest source of income - opposing forces running their missions! these guys drop better loot than most shadow serpentis faction spawns.other than that, lp for plexing and idea w.r.t docking rights should have been implemented from the very beginning. btw, if you want to keep farmers from exploiting fw missions (and perhaps plexes), then put a penalty on not completing a mission when it opens up such as redesigning missions so griefers like me can ruin them (like cutting the net where you can take their documents and then ransom them for additional isk)."
"except that because plexes can't be run while cloaked, all you have to do is run down the plex if they don't want to fight, and follow them around. if you want to grief someone now, you have to follow them around constantly, and they have the luxury of being able to cloak up and finish their mission any time within the 12 hours they get to complete it. if it's centered around plexing, then it means that you can continually deny them their opportunity to make isk without having to destroy your life, in game or out, in order to stop them. so their choice is to either fight and try and get the lp, or they can not fight and get nothing."
"cloaking isn't the problem. and camping one mission 23/7 versus following somebody around 23/7 to deny them plexes is the same thing. boredom. resolution of conflict due to other side bailing should be faster than 12 hours and the amount of time it takes to close a plex while orbiting button (10-30 minutes).wouldn't it just make much more sense to put a poison pill in each mission (and perhaps plex), that kills their rewards if they don't stand and fight?"
"maybe, but then we'd still have an entire mechanic without a purpose."
"which mechanic? plexing = occupancy. missions = isk (or rp thwarting of enemy forces). you can also make isk running plexes (loot the tags, devs should add in lp rewards), and if you make one mission count towards occupancy the same as a plex, then it too would have a double meaning."
"occupancy doesn't mean crap right now. and frankly missions are lame."
"it wasn't some kind of intentional balance to give ppl more standing hit. and there was no lore justification. some guy saw the bunch of misc objects with no standing hit, and decided to lump them all together as a big -2.4 hit instead of manually choosing an appropriate hit for each one and entering in the values. it had more of an effect on player behavior than whomever did it would realize. people weren't always so phobic over faction kill missions."
"personally i avoid faction missions like the plague. this makes it rather difficult to effectively run missions, as you have to swap agents all the time. the problem isn't only that you take a faction hit, but that it is such a high faction hit, and compared to faction gain, (none), is highly unbalanced. currently the only way to get faction standings increased, is to do the storyline missions, which also impact opposing faction standings in a big way. they are also rare, with exception to one-time runs like the datacenter sites, and the cosmo's missions. i've got no more than a handful of storyline missions, between all my accounts, in 3 years of playing. part of that, is that i am not a grinder, and part is because i stop mission running when i hit a faction wall.i'd support the removal of any faction standings hit's suggested. i recently spent something like 240 million repairing the standings on a character with -4.8 amarr, and worse than -1 caldari. for all those negative standings, they got a whole 2.0 minmatar, and 1.3 gallente give or take. i managed to get the standings to a little better than -2.5 amarr, and 0.7 caldari using the data centers and cosmo's, and still had better than 1 with minmatar.point is, negative standings are easy, all you have to do is look at someone wrong. the positive standings are either 1 time, or slow in coming, incurring massive penalties to opposing factions either way. it's time we see some balance here.supported."
"not supported. you're attacking a physical asset of a major faction, of course you're going to incur a decent penalty for doing so. and if you're complaining about taking a lot of time to fix standings, you're doing it wrong. very wrong."
"a frig is a frig. it is no more of a \"physical asset\" than any bs. it shouldn't cause 120 times as much standing hit as a bs. you bring a good point, in that 0.02% hit for a bs should be increased. this does not mean 2.4 hit for a frig does not need to go."
"agreed."
"this is short and simple.for frick sake. . . we need a way to monitor planets in some other manner than actually logging on accounts. add the info to api, eve gate. . . something!pi is annoying as it is, atleast let us monitor it without having to log in!like the skill training programs that are available fro both mac and pc... something like that! it would show us how much time is left on extractors and it would show amounts coming in but most important of all. . . it would show us the storages, how much space is left in storage!that is all."
"recently there has been some anger towards recent business practices, what has been lacking from these thread's are quality commentary made by ccp as to the issues at hand. i think it would give finality to a lot of players if you were to clearly explain your motif's and how you are going to change or not change in the future. i dont mean some cute little dev comment but a nice, thought out explanation for the recent degradation of the game. people that play eve care about it, and it's fate. the forum-explosion is one of the first signs all failing mmo's have and we are going through that right now. it would be great to know if our message is getting through to you (97 pages later) or we should stop fighting it and play another game.thank you for your time, i severely hope it's the former..."
"agreed. hire a damn forum pr guy to keep us apprised of the game we're paying you for. take for example the last ship design contest. over 3 months now and still nothing announced and in the official thread, there is page after page of players demanding to be informed of at least some reason for the hold up.its not that i'm not understanding that ccp is trying to run a company here, but when you don't respond to the people that are your very bread and butter, it just looks lethargic on your part."
"as an american who does study the english language quite a bit, i can vouch for the others in saying that you are indeed butchering the english language with your overzealous use of punctuation. you should go read an mla style guide (available at bookstores or at your local library) some time before defending your poor excuse for grammar. and yes, their examples are exactly indicative of the way you type. i've had a number of english teachers over the years who would cringe at your abuse of commas and semicolons; had any of them graded any of your assignments, i can almost certainly guarantee you would have received a \"d\" at best. the incomplete statements and the sentence fragments are all indicators that your understanding of proper english punctuation is tenuous at best.the grammatically correct way to punctuate your post is as follows (according to the official mla style guide; underlined sections are where corrections were made):as can be plainly seen, i have eliminated all incomplete statements and sentence fragments.also, i noticed a disturbing trend in your posts: you tend to put an apostrophe before an \"s\" in order to pluralize something, such as \"lot's\" and \"comma's\", when they should read \"lots\" and \"commas\", respectively. that said, your \"rules\" are a bit inaccurate, but i'll leave it to the mla style guide to correct your misconceptions, as it seems there are quite a few of them.please, be kinder to the true american english rules of grammar; there are few enough of us as it is who actually know what we're doing.this is not trolling.this is the plain and simple truth.p.s. as a word of caution to everyone, i see people use the non-word \"alot\" a lot (see what i did there?). this is not to be confused with \"allot\", such as allotting more developer time to fixing known outstanding issues rather than new, unwanted features. *hint*hint*p.s.s.it should be \"who's\", a contraction of \"who is\"; not \"whose\", which is an interrogative possessive pronoun or adverb.[/grammarnahzee]"
"well, that was enlightening, but i think i already covered this in the crime and punishment section. it seems i was using old english, or the queens english, as taught in school, and recent changes, (i am 34-35), have modified even canadian grammatical standards, as can be seen in the new \"canadian editorial standards.\" they still teach the queens english in university in canada by the way, despite it being completely defunct and out of print when you get out. my landlord is an english teacher, or was, (now retired), and confirmed my usage of the english language, (she's read a few of my essays), when i asked her about it last week. she said, in no uncertain terms, \"..tell the lot of them to f off, and stop butchering the english language.\" she's a bit old fashioned, and a little stubborn. i convinced her that i would modify my english, for your sake, here on the forums, while keeping some practice with my original use of the queens english.incidently, my english mostly sucks because my only use of it, is forums like these, (where everyone uses commercial english), and in game chat in local. my friends prefer voice to chat, so we almost never actually type anything. this has resulted in my losing practice with sentence structure, where i am struggling to make sentences sound and look correct. this is much easier with your english naturally, as it is a simplified form of english, intended to allow for easy adaption.i adapted in about 45 minutes.anyway.. on with the thread, though i may point out that i would now modify the op slightly.keep csm and introduce playerbase voting. like immersion? put the polling on the forums, where we'll see only 10% of the playerbase voting. why only 10% because the trolls have managed to remove every interested highsec mission runner, and 'carebear' from posting here through careful use of harrassment tactics. is that surprising? not really. look at how i've fared with my post's here. if it isn't grammar ****'s who no longer recognize the english language, it's umadbro's, qqer's, and the like attempting to inflict psychological stress on the interested who hold contrary opinions.in three years, i've watched the 'carebear' population on these forums dwindle and die, with just a few last holdout's like myself, to carry the torch. granted i'm not exactly carebear material, but i don't troll them, flog them, flame them, or try to make them leave and give up posting. i occaisionally even support their ideas and discussions, and post a few suggestions of my own to help give weight to their argument. getting the playerbase voting in game, would bypass the need to log in to the forums, though it may be unneccessary with the new forums. i have noticed that you can stay logged in on them, and are not limited to a 5 minute logout timer like you are here. creating a post, (like this one), quite often finds you logged out at the end of it, and you lose everything you typed to get there as soon as you click post, and it redirects you to the logon screen.i don't even know what a carebear is. never figured out the definition on that one. it seems to be used in a wide variety of cases, with no real solid idea of why it is being used in one case, as opposed to another. personally, i don't care for the term, or even like the show, and certainly don't match any of the personality traits of those silly bears. i might have 23 years ago, but then, i was only 11 going on 12, and completely naive at the time. if you want player's to vote, put a polling system in game. it will have greater exposure, and ensure more votes are cast."
"because there are obviously no issues with direct democracy."
"wow, the op doesn't sounds like he's motivated at all by hatred for the composition of csm6, huh?/s they need to add a thumbs down flag for posts."
"sure all you experienced with mail lists know how unrealistic it is to manage them. i'd like csm to address it with ccp and either come up with a way to have a list of people with access to it that shows their name, corp and history, and a remove button or simply link it in with the api/standing system. same as say a chat channel can do."
"hi,in 2008 i attended fanfest, it was a very enjoyable experience, met lots of internet spaceship nerds just like me :)at one of the presentations, kudos was given to 2 devs who had introduced 'stackless python' and as a result, battles of over 1000+ ships were possible without too much lag, it was awesome.some time passes, and ccp release a new expansion/patch (i think it was dominion) and the lag was back with a vengeance, 100 ships were enough to kill the server.i would like the csm to ask ccp if these 2 individuals are still working for ccp, and if not, is there a possibility of hiring them to look at the current code so they can work their obvious magic on the game.thanksrevjim"
"this won't help smaller alliances... in fact, it will hurt them. large alliances, in the face of such a change, would simply plan the invasion accordingly with titans as waypoints instead of jump bridges. defenders already have plenty of time to recover from a sudden attack on their sovereignty. poses have a reinforcement timer (provided you're not negligent on the upkeep) and outposts have multiple reinforcement timers. an ihub or an outpost makes a system impossible to take in 1 day.lastly, if the jumpbridge network of your enemy comes so close to your system(s) that you'd get no warning of an impending blob, you've got bigger worries than their jb network.thus, i don't support this, as it does nothing to help smaller alliances deal with being outnumbered. it just makes the process of projecting your force more tedious; even more time spent travelling instead of fighting."
"imo a little delay isnt a really bad idea, but how you got from a little delay to a between two jumps minute is a mistery for me. put it at 10 seconds as absolute max if you want something realistic.making it fit in the backstory is not an advantage, i can also make it fit to the backstory that the 4 empires take over all 0.0...changing all 0.0 space to high sec is also easy to implement.wait what? roaming gangs claiming infrastructure? (no idea what you mean by that, but i assume taking down ihubs or something). are we now talking about roaming capital gangs?yes and how many sov holding 0.0 alliances are there who dont have titans themselves and dont have more than enough friends with titans?"
"haha, i like how all the supports come from people with no corp / alliance tag. this idea is horrible; the bottom line is that the last thing eve needs is another set of timers for players to wait out.\"gives more time for incoming roamings to atack poses, claim infacstucture or to make any other quick invasions.\" <--- are you kidding? \"roaming gangs\" don't shoot pos, you drooling ******, nor can they \"quickly invade\" space. try knowing anything at all about sov mechanics before posting your pubbie, hurf-blurf, \"nerf nullsec\" nonsense."
"not supported.so i guess your stealth bomber camp isn't that succesful. you can already get the pos password with a little spy work (google). then you can fly into the bubble as you fail to kill anything.nerf jump bridges, the big boys will replace them with titans. at the end of the day, the old guys with more isk will still be raping you the same.also, what is this noble concept that ****ty nullsec pirates should be on equal footing in somebody elses trillion isk empire? pretentious madness."
"you will still need 2 clicks first one to \"select\" item and second one to \"access\" it. doubleclick just jumps to default access field."
"i think he's suggesting that either we need to retain the ability to spin our ships in station......or he wants a skillpoint reimbursement for training that skill to level 5."
"i want to be able choose not to load the station environment. seems to me just an useless sink of graphics processing. i mean when i'm docked, i'm not really playing the game, hence waste of 3d rendering."
"ccp has stated several times that mac users actually represent a surprisingly sizable percentage of the eve subscriber-base, and that dropping support for mac would result in substantial lost profits. that said, i do not recall the actual statistics.edit: it should be noted that i have not had nearly as many problems with the mac client as others seem to be having. mostly it's the fitting management and the jukebox randomly skipping to the next track on the playlist (which has been a known issue since dominion, wtf!)."
"for many mac users, the current state of the client renders the game unplayable. anyone that can play eve under windows via bootcamp should until ccp and transgaming can at least commit to stability.supported."
"its terrible, i sold my gaming pc because i wasnt playing games except eve anymore and bought a macbook because ccp \"supported\" mac's, now my client crashes all the time and at the most in-opportune moments. the worst part is i cant even get reimbursement for it so i am stuck flying t1 ships because i have a good chance of loosing it. even in obvious cases where client crashed while i had aggression and i was in a sleipnir, a sb probed me out and killed me... i could have tanked this sleipnir and waited out my aggression no problem but \"the logs\" didnt show anything going wrong so im sol now regarding eve and contemplating re-building my pc."
"i never supported myself.and i am a dude not stephanie...i just saw a stephanie though..."
"you certainly do think outside the box."
"by golly, i think youre right. those videos of darius johnson giving a presentation hes 20 minutes late for while drunk off his rear are obviously a smear campaign. similarly, the video hangin with the goons is an out of context bit of libel. im sure when mits said he went to iceland on an 8 day bender that what he really meant was he went there to confer with others on how to best serve eve in an informal setting and enjoy some of the sights to be seen there. these people are obviously misunderstood and clearly upstanding pillars of the community. seriously? like anything else in life, some are and some arent.the parts of eve they like. what about the parts they dont like?and those other csms were comprised of..?okay, but its a little hard to see how theyre going to do anything but succeed when you look at the first item theyve chosen to spot light, time dialation.time dialation, has been in assembly hall for some time"
"sounds good. heres hoping. i am impressed with the upgraded inter-communication being used by members of csm6. about freakin time.-windjammer"
"i'm very excited and looking forward to time dilation. thank you csm and ccp for taking this up."
"yeah, td will finally get rid of \"black screen of death\" and let people fight fairly, albeit a bit more slowly. this is a great idea and i look forward to having hit sisi where we can give it a test."
"finally my two favourite things, weed and milk, combined into one mixture of own"
"time dilation, change that we can believe in"
"been wondering that myself and seleene seems to have said very little about anything since the election."
"small scale pvp is good for super large 0.0 alliances.it gives pilots somethign fun to do when not blobing and fun is why they tollerate cta, taxes, camps, and station bashes.there needs to be more 10-30 man fleets acomplishing real goals and getting good fights. right now hot droping mom's that are more mobile than roving gangs make small scale pvp pointless and more of a diversion than a real tactic.we need objectives a 10-30 man fleet can acomplish that will aid the blob or help move a soverighnty war past the stagnant nature it is currently in.edit:sujestions on how to achieve this and what limitations should be in place for encouraging small gang warfare should be discused more. please post your ideas.also a clear statment of what small gang players want out of small gang warfare would help. statement:small gang warfare in 0.0 is lacking and requires more small scale objectives to foster this style of game play. small gang 0.0 warfare should promote the following:encourage small gangs to form up, give small gangs rewarding objectives,enable small gangs prompt a response from other alliances. encourage gang on gang warfare.additions or qualifications to the above goals?"
"opinions are fine. thats what the opinions columns are for. however, lies (lies of omission count) are not opinion. they are attempts to deceive in order to gain support for an opinion or proposal.write to support@tentonhammer.com give them your opinion of mits article. im sure they can decide what to do about it-windjammer"
"i wonder why the csm sees no necessity to comment on the glaring security issues of the new forum and the way ccp handles this.just in case you missed it:"
"ccp sreegs is darius johnson.darius johnson is a goon.the chairman of the csm is the mittani.the mittani is a goon.you do the math!/tinfoil"
"i correct you in this.ccp sreegs is sean c.darius johnson was sean c.darius johnson was goon.ccp sreegs never was a goon, he is ccpthe mittani?i don't care about the mittani.the mittani is hyped and yet have to prove himself what he's worth being a member of the csm.to the poster of the topic:the csm is not the eve police you totally misunderstand the concept of the council of stellar management"
"as much as we think we're fairly organized, keep in mind we officially took office less than a week ago! we will weave magic, we will build dreams and the stars themselves will bowl into a neat line, eager to offer themselves as furnaces for our dark work. but we, the realm builders, require more than a second in the aether to complete our tasks. trust me when i say we will begin to put forward documents, ideals and objectives very soon. but in the meantime, let us get our ass grooves chiselled out of these comfy new chairs ccp has given us before we start collectively issuing statements pertaining to our opinions on subjects that we're not fully informed on."
"who knew, white tree is the roleplayers' csm representative?"
"yeah, that was what i expected from this csm."
"pl and rooks & kings are 'highsec noobs' ? also vuk lau ragequitting is not ' who did the best giving the situation of being surrounded by morons'what? nc has the largest amount of good moons. thus they will be the least affected. (on a alliance level)you sir, are an idiot."
"you sir, are jealous.vuk lau is nothing short of a god damn hero. he had to put up with the idiots in csm 5 and still managed to bring out some of the best changes to this game. his coalition is built on friendship and it gets results. we are constantly challenged by nap trains who like to exploit and use gms to try and pull the wool over our eyes. yet, here we are. still holding our space and winning.so, put that in your pipe and smoke it.**silence**damn right you have nothing to say. bff loser!"
"herp derp, loud noises!"
"good thing all that moon goo goes directly into the pockets of people flying rifters, hurricanes and drakes, huh? protip: it doesn't. don't tie the nerf to individual income to alliance level income, other than taxes they're not related that much. the nerfs on the ground level are already starting to squeeze individual pilots regardless of where they're located in 0.0 or what alliance they're in. unfortunately we need to gather more data on how this is changing things before the csm as a collective entity can say 'we don't like this.' or, 'this is fine.'the opinions you want will come, in time."
"damn. i was so used to the test forums that i tried to upboat you."
"due to the fact there are more titans then bops, i feel as there is a gapping hole in bops as they are easy to build but obviously have less demand then a 50billion isk ship."
"wow another great crying rant from an \"old school\" eve online player....yawnnnnnn.....no the old eve online wasn't better just like ur \"glory days\" weren't either. you just think they are but ur lying to urself. you just want to blame progress on ur problems so get over it. also akita u remind me of captain hindsight (south park) lolinstead of addressing the obvious problem why don't you explain (in detail) a solution. no? i guess it's just easier to whine edit: oh wait i forgot my solution....keep on doing the great work ccp, more content, features, etc. don't let the hater's tears get u all wet"
"i didn't say the game was better back then. obviously, over time, some things eventually got polished, so all the old stuff is better and we have new stuff alongside it. but the new stuff is mostly crap. or suffered from meltdown soon after it was introduced. or was recalled soon after going live. or worse, it arrives feature-incomplete, buggy as hell and even more annoying, and it remains mostly like that for, oh, at least a few years ?the \"glory days\" i was referring to do not relate to individual content pieces, but the mentality of the dev team actually followed, constantly improving on the old stuff bit by bit while also trying to put some new stuff in when ready, instead of the current situation where most old content (with very few exceptions) gets neglected while huge grandstanding displays of upcoming features (which never work as advertised) became the norm.if you can't understand the difference, sorry for you.the obvious difference being that i have a pretty decent track record of foresight, as opposed to just hindsight.also, you appear to completely lack the powers of captain hindsight yourself. how about you learn to read what was written in the op ? what a coincidence ! that was exactly the same thing i said !the only difference is that you seem to think that lately ccp has actually been pushing out the same level of quality they used to.i got news for you, they aren't doing that anymore."
"this game is a joke.ccp realised it about 2 years ago."
"supported"
"eve online has evolved big time from when it first started and has become more complex.eve online has had major improvements with stability (except forums :) ) , graphics, ui, gameplay.eve online supports a much larger community then before and has done a pretty decent job of keeping the servers running good.so intergrating new features/tech/content to this highly evolved, stable, populated, game isn't going to be easy and you cant and wont plz everyone. so you as the player should have the knowledge not to expect perfection and should be reasonable when u criticize. ccp is smart so they probably will follow the markert research over amateur form rants, because i would do the same thing. lol and word of mouth...thats a great *theory* but advertising is a proven way to sell a product."
"so is word of mouth.and just because eve has grown, doesn't mean it should start becoming a heap of half-baked bugged features.i mean, yes, it evolved quite alot since the day i set my foot out of cistuvaert the first time back in 2003, but in these latter years, the quality of releases have decreased to a level where it's starting to become unsustainable."
"dude, i've been playing for a while and hit the wall last year. wis/incarna has been the carrot keeping me going. my mule is tired and sees the stable up ahead. i fully agree with akita. even if it means another year or more, even if i'm long gone, the game needs the stuff already introduced fixed. then start adding new content."
"perfect example on how do things right is what team bff is doing with their low-hanging fruit approach.so many tiny feature updates and additions, yet so well received on the community."
"population increase ---> critism increase. probably the same haters/players ratio as it was when eve started out, so proportionality the majority of players think eve and ccp are doing great.and grim i had to look up bff and all is i can say is, \"we need this in eve online.\" bff game"
"who's asking for perfection ?we're merely asking for stuff to be delivered after proper testing and only when it's slightly more feature-complete than a mere skeleton.heck, they could even release it as a skeleton if only they would quickly add some meat to the bones afterwards, but they don't even usually do that anymore./facepalmyou haven't really been paying attention to any of the arguments about the posted graph, have you ?well, we'll see how ccp reacts when the subscriber numbers fall further and further away downwards from the almost constant growth line seen so far in the past 6 years or so of eve history (except very recently)."
"well ccp is doing something right because they've had a steady increase in pop (few dips here and there) and they manage to do this without your input or knowledege. so if i need advice on how to make or play a game, i'll defenite take ccp's advice over yours. srry if you don't like the game then leave, noone's forcing you to stay. for such a stubborn critic you do seem to stick around alot. why does it always seem the haters have the most passion about there \"causes\" while the other players are just enjoying the game."
"ccp _was_ doing a lot of things just right. past tense. now, ccp is only doing some things right - they're doing the exact opposite of what they used to from a \"development focus\" standpoint.because of that shifted focus, combined with underestimates of development time and pressure to release new stuff at the estimated deadline (as opposed to when it's ready to release), quality has suffered, and most of us have noticed it.and the \"dips here and there\" are getting more pronounced and more frequent as of late - you do know how to read a graph, don't you ?"
"actually this is mainly due to them recognising the math of how their business works.when they saw that their average retention was 7 months they started aiming at those 7 months.* average retention 7 months.* new subscribers are best found with big flashy expansions of hyperbol that never delivers.* new subscribers demand shallow new features to retain slightly longer.* subscriber count can be grown simply by decreasing churn for 7-9 month subscribers.* churn can be combated with higher signup rates and more advertising.fixing stuff that people only notice is broken after 7 months is \"pointless\" from their broken perspective.someone forgot to tell them how powerful word of mouth is, spreadsheets tell you what you want to hear."
"supporting not telling me you're going to make me a lovely 3-course meal of epic proportions and handing me a corn dog."
"akita t, being one of the best market analysts ingame, just hit the nail straight on the head.not hearing her call means wanting to hurt one's own stream revenue.101% support."
"it's not as if i have an issue with ccp fixing bugs and imbalances akita, i can appreciate making something work better as much as the next person.my issue is with how you're going about it. first, you're a jerk. i don't care how long you've been in eve, there's no reason to be a jerk since it won't get you what you want faster.how are you a jerk you ask? see this thread for more details. look at how you respond and approach ccp staff with your problems. you're a smart ass and a smug jerk about it. how can we trust you to champion a cause to ccp for us when you can't even act like an adult to ccp.you started this thread by saying : we're patient. we can wait.well then, hurry up and wait and as far as quality goes, buy yourself a bottle of chteau margaux 1995 and drink yourself into a coma, then you won't care about anything anymore, just like you think ccp doesn't."
"akita said it perfectly (no surprise there ). i wouldn't say ccp is in a downward spiral yet, but they are getting very, very close and need to clean up their act asap."
"all the little things that make the game fun are the ones that got me hooked years ago, now broken and deserted to sit in the pile of \"to do\"'s"
"i support this"
"i have to be a jerk about it, because otherwise all of this will be swept quickly under a rug.it will eventually be swept under a rug anyway.sure, yes, we can wait... as long as we are reasonably sure that eventually, the things will be patched up and polished properly.right now, we have no reason to believe that would ever be the case, so just waiting is pointless.so, yes, i will be a jerk as long as i _have_ to be, for as long as possible."
"utterly supported."
"yes, we wants!"
"this is a bad trend line. agree with akita, the game needs iteration and polish more than new features."
"1.0"
"as you wish. i do hope you succeed, just remember that you get more flies with honey than with vinegar. also remember that it isn't usually random ccp members who are responsible for the direction of the game so acting harshly towards them isn't always the correct course of action. so be a jerk to the right people, namely the ones making the decisions and not the guys just working 9-5 like we all do, they have little to no control over what happens.so to recap, be mad, you have a right to be in this case, but take it out on the right people at ccp.good luck akita, your success is our success./supported"
"supported, not that it makes a difference as ccp stopped listening to its players a long time ago.eg. sanctum nerf which was a screw you approach to s system we worked hard to develop as a corp, already our corp members are leaving on the hi-sec train, would the last corp in 0.0 please turn out the lights.i cant remember the playerbase asking ccp to nerf 0.0 but they did it anyway, i did however see the player base asking over and over to fix a hundred problems that are a real concern, and guess what ??i have been getting my mmo kicks here in eve since beta, i have brought dozens of new players to eve just by word of mouth and i am sure they in turn have brought new blood into the game, it has been a sad thing though that for the last cpl of years i would advise anyone new to stay well away and after summer this year i too will be hanging up my eve hat as i have finally had enough of the \"new\" |ccp"
"supported. with the way eve is set up (free download and trial), word of mouth, in-game and out-of-game, is going to be one of the biggest factors determining if new players decide to stay around. and making sure all features are up to par, instead of just adding new features and moving on to the next expansion, is the way to get older players to tell newer players that eve is worth staying around for."
"actually, that was repeatedly proven wrong. you actually do catch more flies with vinegar. try it yourself some time... that was my point all along too, if i failed to make it clear enough from the start, i'd have to apologize and see what i can do to make it clearer earlier.i still love the game, i still love most of the devs i know anything about at ccp, the problem i have is with \"upper management\", or more precisely, with their development focus / schedule, and the \"results\" it encourages."
"i generally agree with the op. the trend to put out new shiny content in favor of \"that old stuff\" is worrying.but i'm glad that this seems to have been heard at ccp to a certain degree.keep on polishing the old stuff, slow down on the new and shiny.old and shiny can be quite cool, too.i think the thousand papercuts are a good start, so is the overhaul of the ui.i sincerely hope poses, corp management and cosmos sites are on the list, too."
"as you can see, the \"official\" ccp position is that they are \"committed to excellence\".who in here still believes that after the latest fiasco ?the general perception already was that ccp cares more for quantity than quality as of late, and this is now more than ever obvious.\"expectation management can be improved\"...ha !"
"there is no signs of excellence coming from ccp or eve currently.rushed through crap, that dosnt work or isnt wanted is not excellence"
"supported!"
"bump. don't give up on us!"
"1.0"
"thanks, but please put a check in the support box when you reply :) you can edit your post to do this."
"l2closequotes bro, your ocd coping problems aren't the game's problems, suggesting pointless features whose only purpose is to satisfy your ocd cravings is pathetic, and in no way helpful to anything. admittedly my suggestions have been more then a little absurd and ridiculous, they're on the same level of pointless fringe-pandering stupidity as your original proposal if you'd managed to fail to grasp the entirety of the sarcasm."
"i'd love to see this added, but i'd prefer them to fix important stuff first (faction warfare, nullsec, a sensible anti-blob solution, all manner of balance tweaks...)."
"this idea needs to be strongly put down, because of reasons below.originally posted in a thread in general discussions.time dilation will not work.formalizing lag as a game mechanic, really? that is really, really the worst way possible of fixing the problem, the problem of \"whoever brings the most wins thus making everyone blobing as big a blob as possible\". it will not fix the problem, only easing the syndrome, simply because of people will always try to bring as many as possible into the fight and the system will always be stretched outside its limit. formalizing lag (time dilation) can ony ease out that much of lag and people will just keep bringing in more and more people until the server cannot afford the workload again. moreover, it simply sounds ridiculous and immersion breaking.lag is a natural product of the current game design itself: the fantasy of unlimited numbers of ship fighting together vs the realistic capabilities of the internet and the servers. as long as bringing as many ships into the fight as possible means easier wins, people will do it. time dilation won't work. instead ccp should think about the game design itself: is the concept of an unlimited amount of ships fighting realistic? perhaps 1000 vs 1000 will not be too different than 2000 vs 2000 simply because the screen and overview cannot contain that much information? perhaps it is not 1000 but 500? how should we discourage people going over 500, maybe we can create some mechanisms to eliminate the advantages of bringing in more than 500 ships? etc etc, i am only illustrating an example. i am sure there are better ideas than this one; i am sure someone can think of many more better ideas. but time dilation is the worst solution possible.lag cannot be solved, only designed outlag will always be present as long as the mechanics do not change: people will just bring in more and more until the server breaks, even if the server can run 10x faster than now. the game mechanics itself is to blame, not the coding or network itself (but it is relevant). i think it is not a hard concept to understand. the game mechanics simply need to be designed to accommodate realistic numbers. instead of not limiting the number of ships on grid at all (which simply encourages bigger and bigger blobs) there should be at least some sort of discouragement of simply spamming quantity of ships(it is pretty stupid to be honest), if not hard limits on the game itself (max number of friendlies on-grid, max number of ships doing effective dps to a target, etc). the game needs designed, unlike the current \"no design\" design which will always, always be broken by bigger and bigger blobs."
"awesomeidea!"
"pretty much this - and, if this restriction was put in place, they might as well just limit the number of people in the system and skip this whole idea altogether."
"a simple, yet beautiful solution. great idea!"
"this is certainly something i would prefer when time dialation gets to a certain level. i would like to stress that jumping a new fleet into a system with time dialation in motion would still have lag from all the differing calls to the server needed. it would affect the fleet jumping in most and not the fleet on grid. so even with time dialation in effect theres a strategic decision to jump people into a system, much like there is now.plz plz plz read the entire discussion before posting! all of these have been discussed to an acceptable state so far."
"honnest to god... read the whole discussion before posting!! if you're all for immersion, the id have to say this... a bit of eve fiction about titans was that a whole planets tidal forces were affected by merely the presence of a titan too close to a planet. let alone 40 of them in the same system along with dozens of supers and 100's of carriers releasing insanely collosal amounts of energy in a struggle for domminence. that level of activity and energy release would affect the fabric of space. you could even say the mass of all of the ships on one grid would be soo collossal that it'd cause a gravity well that woould cause a time dialation effect. no sh*t! you tell me in what situation in real life that wont occur... my 5000 tank devision beats your 50 tanks! seriously? no way! my 50 tanks should beat your 5000 tanks... grr i hate the real world.. sum1 should change the way physics and logic works so that i have the advantage always!im sure your idea would work if no one had any vested interest in anything on this game... but if that was the case then eve wouldnt be eve. if the concept u want above is really the game u want i have a simple solution for you... go play a single player game! the fact 1000's of people appear in one system is because they all believe in the need to fight for a common goal.there is an upper limit to the amount of people that a finite sized group of individuals can call upon to fight for a common goal. it wont scale to infinity. and if you think it will then u should check urself into some form of common-sense clinic, or failing that just announce yourself as clinicly insane as you seem to have the desire to be as absurd in your views as everyone else in those institutions."
"i think this is a interesting idea and worth trying"
"this is a mash of all the stupidest, most unfounded arguments against time dilation. first you mention that most incorrect and abhorrent of insidious fallacies, the classic \"if you fix lag then people will just bring more\". this is beyond ludicrous. it firstly assumes in these huge fights people are being held back to avoid lag, when in fact as most alliance members will explain, when high stakes are on the table they try to bring every single person they possibly can. and secondly it acts as an argument against even fixing lag at all, because the better the servers get at coping, the more people will come, so ccp may as well not bother.then you suggest a different solution, perhaps an incentive not to fight in two huge fleets. this is a good idea in itself, but is not a reason not to try time dilation. it is also an idea that should be discussed somewhere else as it is gameplay-related and not relevant. in addition, large fleet fights are something intrinsic to eve, that a lot of people are proud of, and want to take part in. we are all sci-fi fans who have seen it on tv and in movies, why shouldn't we enjoy it in the best sci-fi multi player game that exists? ccp agrees with this point.another two points you make at the end of the first paragraph are that the idea \"sounds ridiculous\" and \"immersion breaking\". these are highly subjective and many will disagree with you. also even if you are correct, i know thousands of players who would put up with a little ridiculous immersion breaking if they thought it'd let them control their ship and have it actually respond."
"very very well said hired goon! and just fyi calathea sata is sooo obviously trolling on the eve general discussion. expect the same here im sure! sooo fail!"
"many detractors seem to have the mistaken impression that these giant fleet battles are caused by sovereignty mechanics. almost every single big fleet fight i've been in is caused by both sides springing traps on each other. for instance, one side will use a carrier as bait to trap a super cap. once the super shows up, they get tackled, then they spring the trap. however, the super was also actually a trap and its support fleet jumps in. from this point on, it is little more than an escalation as both sides scramble to get additional forces on the field to prevent the destruction of the fleet they did not realize was at such a great risk. this spirals out of control until the system ends up with 2000+ pilots.many of the huge fleets that jump in are reinforcement fleets called into a battle that was hanging in the balance."
"it's so insane it might actually work i definitely endorse this product/service."
"say it all in the topic title. i find it hilarious that the character creation date is called \"date of birth\". it's like the character was born an adult with the knowledge of how to fly epic space ships. this is a simple change to will change \"date of birth\" in character sheet / corporate member details / other areas to a little more reasonable \"date of certification\" or something to that effect. \"date of birth\" is a real immersion breaker..."
"may as well."
"supported! better rp text."
"this should be easy to do as well. i already suggested it in one of those \"thousand little things\" threads, but i might as well support it for added visibility."
"makes sense."
"would be nice if they actually fixed the employment record as well...still missing a year from mine."
"i think planet/moon size changes were great, and honestly stations need that same love. stations are small and in no way indicate by their size they could hold anything but a couple frigs in them. as of now capitals looks ******ed coming out of a station. with some love to stations it would be reasonable to get give that love to other caps and definitely super carriers need a big boost. they need to be at least 75% of a titan in size. no bs should look like it's 75% the size of a carrier, how the hell do all those fighters and drones fit in a carrier slightly over the size of a bs....has the csm addressed this at all?"
"i think it's hilarious that my machariel is almost bigger than my archon, and my archon is only marginally shorter than my nyx."
"supported"
"would anyone use it? if you can hide your characters, corps won't ask for a custom api key in which you can hide potential spies. if km is only available to full, then i would suggest it be moved to limited. then again, if it was only km you are interested in, then the kb site would only track that part. so your assets and other stuff are still hidden really. this also wouldn't work too well for programs like evehq as it would be requesting for information in which it wouldn't be available. and since it's only available for you to see again, whats the point? the only use i have ever seen for a full api key is for programs like evehq and evemeep. i don't see any need for a custom key."
"well, usually there are several people with access to the webserver. and most ceo/directors dont want to give all of those people access to their api key. people are using alts and giving them director access just to avoid giving their main char's full api to all the web developers.it could also be used to give api access to your market items only, to say, eve-central. and not give them full access to your contracts/skills/etcand yes, i think its important to keep the full api key, for the reason you mentioned."
"i'm in one of the largest alliances in the game and they wont let me join their ops or include me in their reimbursement program because i only fly gallente ships. when i asked about it they said that people like me are what is killing the alliance and ordered me to train for a different race."
"this is a simple thread to try and have the option of black hair returned to the caldari deteis bloodline.this was an option that was available for the bloodline before the new incarna avatars were introduced and was a part of the sisi testing right up to the last release version (the one that was deployed on tq)for those of you who are not playing caldari deteis i ask that you think before deciding \"doesn't effect me, don't need to vote\" and lend your support to those who are in need.my hopes are that enough support generated here will allow the csm to present this to ccp and a future patch will give the deteis people the black hair dye they request."
"supporting my own idea."
"supported"
"not playing caldari deteis so doesn't effect me. just kidding, everyone, even in the eve universe has a basic right to black hair dye. supported."
"doesn't affect me sorry, not a 'real' game-breaking issue. many more important things to consider first."
"this first iteration is very limited, supposedly by the summer we will receive many more options (and many of the older options we had with the old character creator) reintroduced.this first iteration was for everyone of all races and didn't have anything for particular races, because it was initial release. don't fret, you'll have your racial choices eventually.ill give you support anyhow despite knowing this isnt the final version of the cc."
"then i can only hope this will help to show the design team that deteis players do indeed want black hair and have it added to the summer update."
"watching forums and fanfest videos its apparent that csm is a \"bad\" thing, even more so when ccp actually knows and regards some of them as friends(higher chance csm will support ccp intead of players if they are friends). even more disturbing is that csm, as meny others in the game, supports only a few direction ( pvp, mining etc but not pure high sec pve ) which means that ppl like me that rather play with ppl then against them and really hate pvp get *beep* over most of the times ( every time ). csm was put in place to allow ccp to know the \"players\" a little better but to date csm has never( atleast it seems that way to me) even responded to any ideas or questions in regards to any high sec pve'er ( 100% they never commented me in any way or form which they will never do. )i've got so meny ideas and question but so far i think only like 2 of my posts remain of 10+, the others have been removed despite no rules have been broken which makes it appear that ccp/csm does not want some questions to see the light of day.i say remove csm in favor in ingame voting and like limit the voting to 1 vote per email so that those of us with more then one account cant vote more."
"grr, this post was supposed to be a reply to another topic but accidently became a topic on its own :p"
"i assume you had the same objections to every other csm that existed, yeah? especially the ones which were composed primarily of highsec players or pve oriented players, yeah? you did take up this charge when pvp oriented players had no representation in the csm iterations in previous history because your argument here is based entirely on the idea that there should be fair and equal representation, and not that because this particular csm doesn't represent what you think are the interests of your group that it is now somehow suddenly a broken institution? this is what you're getting at, yeah?"
"i have said nothing about how the csm today or before was composed( what type of member ). have not and will not as i dont know, and honestly dont care about that part.what i did say is that for ccp to \"bring\" in friends as csm members can be somewhat of a scewed act.i also said that i feel that what csm has taken up with ccp feels to a much larger extent oriented everywhere but high sec pve(100% non pvp).in addition i mentioned posts that were removed without any broken rules which in any case is odd and then i stated what i think whould be best for the player community.i was not directing anything towards our current csm but to all of those that came before, as far as i know our current csm hasnt really had time to do much.i will say another thing, yay! post hasnt been removed and someone actually took the time to read and reply"
"what members of the current csm are 'friends' of ccp?"
"cant name names as i didnt hear any but i was watching the fanfest videos on youtube where it was mentioned.it was in conjuction with the new csm. however i cannot confirm it was about the new csm or about an old one.but which ever it was it feels... not good"
"the csm is just a sounding board that ccp uses on occasion. the majority of csm iterations have been either entirely or heavily majority pve/highsec interested entities, especially the early ones.the more important issue is that regardless of who sits on the csm, they still have no real power. just like during the csm 1 elections many of us pointed out that no multi million dollar company is going to take direction from a handful of customers.keep in mind that ccp wants to make money, keeping existing customers happy does that but bringing in more customers does it better. especially when the majority of ccp's customer base has been in eve long enough to run out of things to do."
"so you can't confirm if you actually heard or knew which is which and what is what.you have no idea what former csm's or current csm's opposed your so called line of thinking.yeah... nice waste of air and trolling that is.if your going to oppose something... put some backbone into it... or walk away.no facts... no background... no proof... waste of time."
"it certainly seems that you have no idea what the hell you're talking about."
"yeah."
"considering theres a \"patch notes\" link a little to the left on your screen and a \"general discussion\" and \"features and ideas\" board that ccp regularly checks...no, not really."
"that's just it. it's been active in the features and ideas board, the issues and workarounds board, as well as the general discussion board especially, where a dev actually took the time to move it into the features and ideas board; all of this, and not one single actual response from the devs to show for it. so yeah, i'd say it's an issue because they most certainly are not checking these things out regularly. mind you, people have been complaining about it since the patch went live.also, the patch notes came only a bit before the patch went live, but the features in question were never on sisi to be tested for such flaws, and the 50-fitting absolute limit was not clearly stated in the patch notes initially. it seemed to imply that you would still be able to access client-stored fittings as before. this was not the case at all.if a dev had actually responded to the issue, then i wouldn't have felt it necessary to bring it here to try to get the csm's attention on the matter."
"absolutely supported. thanks for checking out my thread on the features section!!!i think part of it is very simply that the new forums are being switched back and forth and it's hard to get any momentum going at the moment when dealing with people. also, going around and hitting in game locations about the topic will definitely generate interest, if we could at the very least get a reliable forum to make this work on."
"wait, so a little link means that you don't have to go through proper playing test and playing input about your features and you can just insert things that they \"supposedly\" want, but can't be bothered to properly test before implementing because they're trying to hard to stick to a schedule and making sure that somethings are done correctly and for the right reasons?"
"i for one despise the damn thing.i'm all in favor of backing up fits.but for it to eat and consume and crash out my fits lists?eff that.supported."
"how to hold them accountable:cancel your subscription."
"i hate the freaking new fitting thing, i have a ****load of fits now visible, i have no idea wich are new, old mine, corps....thank you ccp, for delivering something useless.edit: supported"
"but i won't get my money back for the 60 day time-code that i bought and activated not long before ccp caused this whole snafu without warning, which is exactly what this is. so no, cancelling my subscription will not hold them accountable unless i can get them to refund my money. if i am in fact wrong about this, please say so and point out to me where in the tos or eula it says this."
"you are preaching to the choir, elfa. your post is in agreement with what ive been saying. im not the one complaining about or denying ccps ability to control the game. im saying they have the ability, have the responsibility to use the ability and will use the ability they have to preserve eve by doing whatever they feel is necessary.no group of players, player advocates or single category of players is going to change that.-windjammer"
"^^ like~maybe i've just been on facebook too much, but i wish eve forums had a \"like\" button."
"the 'new' forums have a thumbs-up button for posts (or had, before they died again)."
"technically, if that's the case, they would also empty your wallet, confiscate your assets, imprison and possibly biomass you. your corp/alliance whom gave you material support would have its assets impounded, wallet frozen, locked out of markets, and members arrested on sight... but that's taking it too far (both parts, including yours).as game mechanic, immediately warping in concord rr does make sense. except it can be abused - when you're about to die for whatever reason, have someone make the ultimate sacrifice to call in concord to save the day.it'll need work. supported in principle."
"ok, first off, concord has the same long distance travel drives as the jovian, instant appearance into any place, they just have to click the \"jump here\" button, hence the delay till they show up. but maybe the rr could come from the empire's ships that are on station at every single high sec gate.but the rr by concord could only be in major hubs, cause a super space force like them would want to protect the source of their income's main source of income, aka hubs. and 1.0's-.9's would call for the rr.that would make sense for ccp to do, in my opinion.and also, everything gets abused in eve some how. eventually people always find a way to use something to their advantage. its the way games work.and most of u sound like a bunch of kids in middle school dissing some other kids idea. grow up."
"1. same reason why their sentry guns don't rep a ship being illegally attacked in low sec--they only punish, not protect.2. news flash--keeping a ship alive is what repping does. derp. 3. u want more realism? ok--for starters, anyone who has ever illegally attacked a ship in low sec suffers the same sec penalties for all their alts. after all, criminals can use fake ids (or high sec alts in this case) and they can also operate under the front of a legal business (high sec mining) to support their illegal ways under the relative safety of the same concord they're against when they pirate.4. and the best part? after all this, u still call everyone else \"kids\" when they poke holes in your stupid notion of realism in a science fiction game.5. oh and let's not forget that u're okay with abusing/exploiting your own proposal but at the same time, an existing and intended game mechanic is not okay just because u hate it.6. therefore, your proposal just all boils down to a modified quote of yours: 'cause face it--u just want more safety while u're hiding and collecting easy isk in high sec and still be able to pirate and get away from the same concord that u take for granted.but plz continue--i'd really love it to hear it."
"concord provides punishment, not protection.repping won't help anyway as now targets are one-shotted in most cases"
"yeah concord isnt ems."
"it was a good idea then, it remains a good idea. it is full expansion in size though, so i doubt we will see it any time soon."
"i lol'd so hard i sharted.true story."
"because the current low sec ghost town appeals to you?"
"doesn't go nowhere near far enough though, if low is to be synonymous with drugs then harvesting and production should be possible only in low .. restricting usage beyond what is already in place is nonsensical.low should be the underbelly of eve with crime cartels smacking each other around for control."
"maybe a pos module such as a \"narcotics factory\", better ones available from angel cartel etc? or were you thinking of low-sec stations having drug refinery services in them?"
"because its the above mentioned plan or nothing?"
"i'd rather see more sweeping strokes for low tbqh. i don't think the drugs alone are enough to change it. still, any change is good change if it makes players reconsider their playstyle and opens new avenues for profit/pvp."
"null sec corps and thier alts/alt corps supporting passive isk generation and sov like mechanics in low sec!details at 11."
"have it so the refineries can be killed then. passive income, gone!edit:- also there was no \"sov like mechanic\". it's just \"whoever makes the spice, controls the universe...\" i mean, \"whoever makes the drugs, reaps the profit\""
"im sure after incarna to match the amazing characters that we will be walking around with they will work on ships once they fix incarna."
"i agree. at least edit them in, so we have a little more variety."
"right? it couldn't be that much more effort to open up the scripts to allow the newer models into play. sure, some adjustments to ai and such may be needed but overall, it would add just a bit more variety."
"wait, higher tiers of ships are not in missions. no drakes, myrmidons, hyperthrons, or the like.now that i think about it, i can't remember if i have seen those in missions....those ships are pretty ancient, they were not new when i first started the game. i am not even sure the lot of tech 2 was either."
"its interesting since no1 of import ever seems to reply to anything."
"why is it csm feel they can delete all evidence of their actions? is debate so dangerous for the community? authority may not be challenged ? i call censure !a vast majority of csm voted no to a hybrid balance despite widespread recognition of this problem among players.they argue that no concrete proposal could be presented to ccp. why is it they feel they can only vote yes to detailed proposals ? is it fair to demand the community develop the solution? i say they should demand ccp do what we pay them for, and that is to develop!csm overrate their own importance if they think their job is to present ready made solutions and all ccp has to do is implement. their job is to point the way, not paint the whole map."
"hybrids will be balanced soon enough, right now lag is on the agenda."
"a lot of topics are on the agenda, not just lag. hybrids are pretty essential for those who have no other weapons. caldari for example get rockets fixed and they have missiles. gallente have blasters and rail, both need a checkup. see the problem?"
"i exclusively fly gallente for now, and yes i see the problem. however, there are issues that are more pressing, and it is never a good idea to have only one weapon system trained anyway. if you are a gallente pilot like me, try going with projectiles or now (works surprisingly good on some ships, the myrm in particular of course). hybrids will have their day soon enough.edit: and yes, this is horizonist, posted with price-checker alt by mistake."
"seems to me it (should) make most sense to use the appropriate weapon system on race ships, why would you think its never. a good idea to train only one. can you use more than one at a time?does it not strike you as absurd that hybrids suck so bad its better to use arty and projectiles on gallente ships?your solution to the hybrid problem is don't fly with hybrids!? seems to me you only illustrate the pressing need for a change."
"i agree on all points, hybrids are horrible, especially in comparison to projectiles (which, to add injury to insult, do not consume cap). i was not offering a solution, simply a patch for gallente pilots until ccp chooses to fix hybrids for us. training projectiles is a good move for future crosstraining anyhow."
"ccp and or csm pulled a cowardly stunt by stomping on free debate. ccp should move all development to china and the forums along with it. im sure they know all about censure out there"
"i am bumping this rather old thread to see if there has been any traction to this idea.in short; it's a \"distress beacon\" feature which allows each ship to launch a distress beacon in case of emergencies, which last for a minute or two, appears on a system overview, and will also send an alert to your corp or alliance team-mates in system, depending on the player's personal settings.the response i received when i first posted this was quite positive. of course, its not completely watertight, as there are some concerns around abuse, system/player load or whether this is superseded by other workarounds (someone mentioned fleet based alerting).essentially, this feature is not for fleets. it's for independent travellers moving through space that need assistance. it allows someone to be the hero/villain in the game a little more often. it should be present on all ships, it should have a charges that can be purchased in the market, and there should not be more than 1 per ship. yes it can be used by pirates to spring traps, etc. there can also be rules around its deployment. for instance, it would only be viable in lowsec/nullsec space. which would allow corps and alliances to more effectively police their systems.so, i am re-posing this to seek a positive response from the csm to put forward to ccp for review.kind regardsoriginal post follows:-------------i posted something like this a couple of years ago on one of the forums and it seemed to get a general nod. so i have decided to step up and submit something to the council for their opinion on this.backgroundi run a multi national, multi timezone, multi language and multi-dexterity(i.e. some diasabled) corp. now, some of us are very good at typing in english, but for the most part there are varying degress of this. alot of my members also don't have the benefit of using teamspeak or eve voice et al due to a numebr of factors and reasons.we also work in nullsec and lowsec systems. this puts a number of my members at a distinct disadvantage when it comes to being attacked, as they sometimes find it difficult to communicate quickly what it happenning and where they are.so, one thing that might be able to work to give an edge is the ability to trigger a distress call to alert corpmates/alliance members or others in the system that you are under attack and/or need assistance.the concept- setupa player can customise how their distress call works. this can be done at a ship level or a player level (still undecided). essentially there are three options i have thought of:1/corp alert2/system alert3/alliance alertyou also have the option to receive or ignore distress calls based on the three opions above- mechanicsyou are under attack and you want to trigger the distress signal. this can take the form of right clicking on your ship and selecting \"send distress call\" or a hotkey. depending on your preferences and the preferences of others the distress call will be then sent out.other players who have opted to receive the signal will get a dialog box on their screen (similar to the downtime countdown box) informing them of the person who triggered the alert and the system where the alert was triggered. the location of where the distress was triggered will be warp-able and will display on the pilot's overview(but only for those who have opted to receive the signal in the first place). this will allow pilots to move as quickly as possible to their comrades to provide assistance.obviously, there are a number of things that need to be reviewed, such as whether to expand this feature to include blues on your \"likes\" list, whether agressors will have this feature as well, how to avoid people crying wolf, preventing abuse, network and bandwidth overheads, etc. however, considering the wide diversity of players that play eve, i believe this will be a welcome feature for all players, as long as the paramaters and rules of its use are balanced.thoughts, anyone?"
"btw if you go to eve-search.com and search for \"distress signal feature\" you will find the complete thread... can't re-post it here.thanks"
"supported if it's a rather expensive entity with the same m3 as like a small bubble that needs to be launched from the cargo hold."
"i would like to see what ccp does with this idea. could create epic stories."
"i like this idea.... i would alter it a little though: 1.) i'd have it create a warpable beacon viewable to all in local. 2.) i'd have it automatically put your name, corp, ship type, and system into local, corp, and alliance. this provides just enough information to get people interested, and by having a warpable beacon, you create all sorts of potential traps as well as create a bonefide mechanic to get help!"
"\"bigger balls\" lol. originally posted in features and ideas but i will just go ahead and post it here.here's an idea.make every ship's destiny ball (the invisible balls of physics collision) bigger, so ships cannot blob without creating a distance between the ships. e.g. frigates will be 1km in radius, cruisers 2km, battleships 4km, titans 64km perhaps. a blob of frigates will therefore be ships 2km apart from eachother minimum. a blob of battleships 8km from eachother. a blob of titans 128km from eachother. the distance will always depend on the smaller ship so a frigate can be 2km from a battleship, a battleship can also go next to a frigate until 2km. (smartbombs or bomber bombs will then need corresponding balancing, of cause.)(the distances here are only an example for illustration purposes, it can be smaller or bigger.)this way blobing will actually require more skills: how to distribute ships to ensure they can all get optimal ranges (ties well with formations too, think about \"form into a concave arc so everyone is 30km from the target\" for example); how to distribute several rrs over the entire blob to cover everyone; how frigates can fill into the void between bigger ships to do additional damage, etc etc. i think the potentials of this idea is brilliant. i think this is an elegant solution without breaking immersion, and will actually improve the fun and skills of gameplay. this is much better than time dilation in my opinion.the rp explaination would be \"ships collision in space is fatal to the structure thus gravity emitters are installed on each ship to avoid other ships or astroids coming into contact.\"this ties well not only with formation. this ties will with the borked ship sizes as well - if implemented we can see bigger capital ships that are true to their original sizes. ships no longer collide into each other breaking immersion, instead it would be the gravity field that is bumped. isn't it just elegant.this would be an better alternate to the idea \"time dilation\" which i think will never work.the reason it \"fixes\" lag is because bigger blobs no longer have so much of their current advantages, and fighting in blobs will now actually require skillz and that itself would be the penalty to ship numbers. the distances created between ships will form a natural barrier to bigger numbers, unless you are will to spread your ships into a thinner arc, for example.new things can get tied into this as well. new leadership skills - fleet formation v: reduce the gravity fields of the ships in fleet by 3%/6%/9%/12%/15% (so more ships can squeeze in a tighter space); for example."
"the reason it \"fixes\" lag is because bigger blobs no longer have so much of their current advantages, and fighting in blobs will now actually require skillz and that itself would be the penalty to ship numbers. the distances created between ships will form a natural barrier to bigger numbers, unless you are will to spread your ships into a thinner arc, for example.new things can get tied into this as well. new leadership skills - fleet formation v: reduce the gravity fields of the ships in fleet by 3%/6%/9%/12%/15% (so more ships can squeeze in a tighter space); for example.edited into op."
"is this not an issue for guns that work under 4km in cruisers? like blasters, they are already pretty poor, surely this will completely kill them."
"the numbers in op is just an illustration, perhaps they are too large; 500m 1000m 2000m might be more realistic numbers, they will of cause need finetuning..."
"i think that would stress the physics engine a lot. when someone in the middle of a large fleet goes mwd, everyone will start bouncing around like crazy. when caps warp together and end up inside each other the game hiccups when they burst apart. what you are suggesting could easily be used to bring down a node."
"i think you're approaching this from the opposite direction of where you should be.turn off the bump. let ships collide and damage one another.damage to each ship would be based on their total resistance to all 4 types of damage (though em would be a small contributor in this) multiplied by a factor which is correlated to the ship's mass. an errant frigate would be a puff of smoke on the side of a titan and a lot of laughing on ts3, but a tier iii battleship colliding with a freighter would be fairly devastating to both pilots... the battleship totally destroyed, the freighter not far from it....and there you have it.. the more pilots in the fleet, the higher the chances you'll see them destroying one another before you ever engage them."
"so when people undock at jita, everything is constantly exploding hilariously? good plan. i would personally sit in a heavily tanked ship right at the undock and have a bunch of alts repping me."
"you sir, have an excellent plan."
"so...nerf blasters, low-orbit frigates, and make bumping easier?"
"so you want ships to be 64km away from a titan? and how do you propose jump bridging would work? or even corp hangar/ship hangar access to work if so far from the capitals? or hell, even logistics would have trouble being so far spread apart.it would only reduce lag by the fact everyone would quit the game the next day as that just kills any sense to do that. if their invisible bounce ball is that big, it'll collide with other ships and **** will just bounce all over the place. maybe(hopefully) you explained it wrong. but the way you did, it means the physical bounce area of a ship would be gigantic. this would not fix lag, it does not put less stress on the node, the grid or anything. it just forces people to smash their faces into their keyboards and quit eve. i'm sorry if this sounds like a flame, but it is honestly a horrible horrible idea and i can't fathom why or how you could come up with this idea. with what logic to support this idea that it really would help reduce lag. if you limit the number of which people can fight, you are basically saying that a few amount of people get to fight, while the rest can go **** themselves. that's a very lame idea. you might as well also suggest getting rid of clone upgrades that it will help reduce lag because it will \"thin the crops out\". blobs are here to stay because that's how ccp designed it. to alter it, would change gameplay a great deal and the object of improving a game is not to change the game so much that it's a different game, but to improve on the small details to make gameplay better."
"in short:frigate in fleet means everything 2 km from each other,everything larger then a cruser can't get into a pos, that has modules inside floatingjumping trough a wormhole wouldn't couse problem becouse everyone sitting there wouldfly off with 999999 m/swonderful idea,me not likey."
"it is ******ed that the hand holding risk averse high sec dwellers make more money per hour than those willing to risk 0.0 in any sense. level 4 missions should be moved to low sec, and 0.0 should get un-****ing nerfed. instead of making 0.0 a desolate wasteland of space, make people want to fill every damn system.then again, moving level 4 missions would have high sec dwellers crying to the high heavens that they might actually get shot at once in a while. (don't even talk about ganking in high sec, if you don't want to get blown up, don't spend 3 billion on a ship to do level 4s 30 seconds faster and expect to be perfectly safe.)edit: also deklein is one of the riches regions in the game (when all things considered), so all of this talk about fighting for better space is irrelevant, there isn't better.also, i do have a supercapital class vessel and i log in maybe once a week to that account because it is so boring to fly, who knew. (my space ***** is bigger than yours)edit #2: why is re-tarded filtered, that is plain stupid."
"i skipped through most of the replies as it's the typical person who smokes eve as a joint and believes getting high on eve. just so they can be like, \"zomg, this isn\"t wow yu n00b, gtfo, this is ceriouz ****\". it's a game, not a job. not everyone has 5 hours a day to make isk. some people just wanna get on and pvp, and if they pvp all the time, they'll eventually lose a ship. insurance isn't going to help much. checking the recent report, only 11% of the population lives in null... 7% in low and 2% in wh. rest are carebearing their asses off in high. make null have lotsa money avaible to be made then that'll get more people to move out there, and that means more money to buy ships. which means more people to shoot at. thus the circle of life of eve continues and instead of shrinking, it grows. iirc, that's what ccp wants is for more people to blow **** up cause that keeps the game going. and yes, if people want the money they are most likely to look into bots. it'll be safe in the crappy systems since no one travels through there much, just like half of drone space. so less threat = more desire in using bots."
"ooh i got another idea against supercap proliferation without hurting peoples ability for small scale pvp (since that is the main effect of the anomaly nerf). how about we make supercaps very expensive, then there will never be more than a few in eve at a time, am i doing this right?serious it is not freaking rocket science, supercaps are (solo) pwnmobiles*. especially on a strategic level, but pretty much on every level, they are just the best ships in every possible situation, they dont have a counter and can single handedly whipe out much larger fleets if they dont have similar number of supercaps. now what should be clear for those with some common sense or who read the topic, making supercaps more expensive (either by making them more expensive or by nerfing income), will do nothing against the need to have tons of them. while malcanis is right (never thought i would say that) it is a chicken egg problem, that doesnt matter, you need more supercaps than your opponents to beat them/keep your space. the more unrealistic you make it obtaining them by legit game mechanisms, the more you are promoting the less legit game mechanisms: botting. everything that makes it harder to get supercaps is a direct boost to cheaters (botters). two solutions against it: either make it easier to get supercaps, while it is more fair everyone in a supercap doesnt sound like the ideal situation (although eve is heading in that direction anyway), or stop supercaps from being (solo) pwnmobiles. *now i know there is always someone who complains about that, since solo supercaps are no problem to counter with 20 correct ships on your side, but that is pretty much the definition of a solo pwnmobile, needing to outnumber them 20:1 to kill them."
"you guys are debating about your personal hart behaviours instead of focus the main post that i do agree the title is meh.the fact that rating income changes touches more players than boters is not fair and i can't see how you guys can think for a second that a/small group raters will pay himself cap's just by killing some rats.don't misunderstand me i read your post and saw that you are not happy that now you need more caps to kill commander stuff, so what? -i'm pretty sure there are some specialised in commander stuff but those can't be assimilated to boters, so where is the trouble guys? your trouble is that they can pay themselves ultra gimped supercap? -tbh why the end game stuff should only be available to some guys when those same some guys are the ones who mostly pay their sub with plex buyed/offered by corps making gazillions per month? -i can't agree with this, and tbh that makes more cap stuff to kill and lootnow to get back to your thread's title: i don't think this will change something for botters, why should it?every one know the most efficient bots are the ones who do simple tasks, and the botter type is the same no matter the game: resources like minerals -plants or whateverin this game this means ice/ore mining, clouds harvesting, now maybe there are a few ones doing more complex tasks but start by doing something randomly changing in mining sessions or every 30min at the server level so they can't adapt but the player even if afk 85% can.by the way if ccp really wants to get rid of them all they have to do is to download them and see how they work to counter them and nobody will make me believe they don't.edit: don't touch that stuff they already screwed dreads, and bs's are just good to bubble by big numbers kill pve stuff or bump other ships trying to dock."
"your clumsy attempt to switch the focus of discussion from 'ratting to buy a fleet battleship' to 'ratting to buy a supercarrier' is noted. nice try though."
"i agree with topic starter, it seems pretty dumb to try and get more people into the end game content, having the it be marginally better then level 4s in empire, nerfing so it is worse.conquerable space is the selling point of the game (ever see a eve video championing living in empire and running level 4's in npc corps).null sec should be able to sustain more, having more resources instead of a finite amount compared to the infinite that can come from empire. the player base of the game keeps rising, how can null sec sustain more when belt ratting in systems is the only income one can find assuming one isn't already doing it, with the respawn rate i would guess most whole systems at most can sustain one individual doing it at the same time. so their you have it, the vaunted thing people championing what others can go back to can at most sustain in a region alliance of a paltry hundreds, in a game with hundreds of thousands of accounts.putting aside any debates on what people should use for fleets, or what they do with the isk. players should be commonly be able to get in basic 0.0 ratting double that they get in empire missions, the odd rarity of exploration sites that are not gavemetric even more on top of that. null sec should be better to start with not just having a heads up with stuff elsewhere after being upgraded.having null sec be valued differently isn't itself a bad idea, but all of it should have value more so then any level 4 hub.all in all, the basis behind the nerf are about as poorly thought out as the 'new' forums. serious rear admirals seem to be in charge. i would hate to say it, but with some of the stuff being pushed out and the results the game might be better without expansions."
"currently, when you decide to export a fit to xml, the export box automatically has every one of your saved fits checked by default for export. can this be switched to the opposite? when trying to play eft warrior god, you're forced to uncheck all of the other fits you have saved in order to export a single one. it would be so much easier if, by default, there were no fits pre-selected rather than all of them.i understand the idea was to backup all of your fits offline in case you had to reinstall, but with all fittings saved server side, i think the check boxes should be altered.thanks!"
"supporting my op"
"alternatively, simply export all your fits and only import one of them. this be whats i does."
"aaa defending their bots!"
"i love that, imagine how angry the botters would be.. lol..if they had to reposition or reprogram every patch..oh oh oh... make it so every account has to be set individually..actually !! make the windows open in different positoins every time.or randomly move slightly from time to time.. that would bugger a bot easy.i could live with the slight inconvieiance"
"i really wonder what would happen to the market, resources and economy if all the bots got banned.... it would become like waterworld... youd be recycling your own ****."
"like boot.ini? i'd rather not trust ccp to shepherd my files. these guys can't even port open source forums without falling on their face."
"ea bought westwood, then they took earth and beyond and rammed it down the ****ter. just because blizzard has wow, doesn't mean they can do any good. it would shortly become a game of merchandise where you can pay lots of cash to make your ships look pretty and then you won't lose ships. they'll go to a magical ship yard to respawn. then they'll have annoying really small scaled pvp that involves at most 25 people. sov claiming will change to sitting with your thumb up yer ass for 5mins in a system. do i need to go on? it'll be hell and wouldn't work. at all. please never make anymore suggestions without at least thinking about it for a minute."
"i concur...bad idea!"
"to the op: gtfo!"
"gaaaaaaaaaaaaaabe!!!!!!!!!!!!!"
"give it to ensemble studios ... oh ... wait ..."
"regardless of this, if there was a way to view ban history (all characters on an account get a 'strike in the window) it might make finding botters easier for ganking, which would be beneficial. have the ban linked to the character as well(for viewing, not the actual ban) and people might be less inclined to purchase the character which would be increasing a botters income.so mine isnt for transfering bans into characters, but to show a character was on an account that was banned. ganking botters is a pretty fun past time and if i can check local for targets in this manner would make this job pretty fun."
"i am glad a fellow fw member came in here to shoot down an idea that would help fw instead of keep it in the state it is in now.+1 to the op."
"supported, im not sure if your ideas on how to solve the fw situation would be the most optimal as im not really a fw player, but i think fixning fw needs to get the csm and ccp's attention as it is a well advertised future off eve and is (or could be) one of the best forums to get new pilots into pvp."
"supported, this might be or might not be the solution for fw. the most important thing is that something gets changed now"
"no.it is a hodgepodge of random code from all over the place and is unimaginative in its implementation.there is no fix for fw beyond a complete revamp of pretty much all mechanics involved.we need fw mk.ii, not fw ver. 1.1"
"because his suggestions wrt plexing and mission running wouldn't help fw, imo. the other suggestions would."
"i dont think fw missions should be nerfed, however i think there are many mechanics in fw that can be changed to promote more of the pvp that fw was supposed to have.i agree there should be lp rewards for all involved in a kill (whether its like kb's point system or whatever). only problem i see if people making a fw trial alt and putting him in a t1 frigate and and continually insuring the ship and having said players main blow it up over and over again for the lp and all the isk to replace the ship. maybe a way to combat this is only one kill on a character per 24 hour period would give lp - because its much more arduous to make 100 trial accounts a day and thus far in my fw experience i dont kill the same people multiple times a day often.also would a 'bounty' reward system on wts be capable? no million isk bounties, but at least something. of course there would have to be some method like the one above to circumvent exploitation.also invading and taking over a system should be more exciting. how? i dont know, so i am not much help on that front - however, there should be more of a reward for owning systems such as agents in the stations flipping and becoming available to the sov owners of the system (a fed agent would now become a state agent) - but i dont know how well that would do in terms of rp component.here's my most controversial point. it involved a two step process:1) demote everyone. ouch ... make ranks only available through killing wts and make them much more difficult to obtain. possibly make a monthly quota of wts needed to kill to retain certain ranks (such as the top 3).2) give a daily pay to militia men who were actively involved in pvp (as in killed or lost a ship) based on rank. this payment should be either isk or lp, but probably not both. id rather see isk (to replace ships and ammo) but i could see ccp wanting lp instead as they want to produce more sinks, rather then faucets.3) pay would be based off a multiplier for owned systems (and rank mildly). this would make other militias to want to attack and take over systems resulting in higher daily pay for them. also doing these attacks would result in pvp, which would help to bring them up the ranks.hair-brained? possibly - but, ... it would result in more militia pvp."
"supported"
"recently there have been a lot of patches, sometimes 2 extended downtimes per week.this is a problem if you are in the asia/australasia time zones as these occur during our prime time.the current situation is resulting in several days/month without the opportunity to play eve.and ccp aren't providing notice of the extended downtimes like they used to. so we can't plan for it and are wasting time & money.therefore ccp should either revert to doing a single large quality patch and update, taking the game off-line for a day every few months if necessary, or move the extended downtimes around a little so they aren't always occuring at the same time of the day."
"^^^.|||.this is urgently needed. anything to lessen the clickfest!"
"+1being able to monitor planets through the api would be very helpful."
"agreed, what they said. there are at least three separate threads going about issues with the new fitting system and how it went straight to release with precisely zero opportunities for player testing and feedback on sisi beforehand."
"actually no, i don't hate csm 6 at all. i rather like the mittani, for some strange reason, despite not knowing how to spell his name properly. i also voted for him. seleene is also a good choice, as a former dev, and wormwood isn't bad either sorry, i mean trebor j/k i'm having a bit of fun with that. anyway.. trebor is not my ideal choice, him having served in the last csm, with not really impressive, to me, results. yes the character creator could use some work, but i don't consider it a top priority, less something to get obsessive about. he had me very suspicious with the way he persued that whole thing, i'll admit, perhaps even a little paranoid at his overindulgent seeming obsession with the whole thing. then, when just days after parts of his ideas got implemented in a patch, the annoying isk mongers started to proliferate local and rookie chat again, i began to see directions for my paranoia to take. he was helping the other side. deliberately infiltrating the csm to get his filthy paws on nda material and code, and using it to generate spambot programs that used the new character generation interface and reinstated the annoying old standard of filthy debris in rookie chat and other channels. rmt's everywhere crooned with joy, at the new pets trebor had made them.okay.. maybe not, but it was a thought, then i found out he was an anime fiend, and everything was explained.you see, i used to know a few anime fiends. they were horribly obsessed with the whole anime gendre, and couldn't keep away from mind altering chemicals. at work or at play, they were generally mimicking anime characters, while under the influence of various chemicals. i was fortunate enough to often be there immediate supervisor, and have the pleasure of attempting to get them to do work. not to say trebor is one of these sorts of individuals, or even uses mind altering chemicals, but memory of such things has traumatized me greatly. i will never look at anime the same again. actually, i never really liked anime, since the first toaster was invented and children everywhere drooled over colorful cartoons and brney singalongs have i been this way. i mean... nevermind.truth, video games on consoles when i was a kid, (about 12-13 before i played my first one), werre very cool and a completely new experience for me, having had nothing but a handful of hours to play montezuma's revenge and car wars, on an old apple ii e beforehand. that was brief, as my brother hogged the thing and new=ver really let me use it. car wars was great though. colecovision and pong, there was that too.then, after a few years of shinobi, and various other games on friends consoles, i got my own nes, and began to play rpg's which i really liked at the time. one day, when i was about 16, they introduced a new game for consoles, (i had a sony playstation at the time), and it contained anime. it was perversely lacking in any real content, puzzles, or involvement aside from clicking buttons repeatedly. the world of strategy rpg's was gone, and replaced with shinobi-like clickies. i might as well have been playing street fighter, for all the good it did me. no longer did games contain the investigative storyline which drew me in. it had been replaced by flash, pizazz, and anime action adventures. i was bored.that pretty much ended console games for me, aside from mech warrior-like games such as armored core, semi-realistic racing car games with some semblance of physics like gt3, and jet fighter piloting games like ace combat 4. good games in their own right. anime had killed the majhority of my interest in sit-down video games however, and as a result, silly looking oversized sword-guns included, i've never really liked it.then, there's samurai movies. i knew this guy once..."
"some people seem to just call him mittens.i'll admit that by this point i was thinking \"this sounds like a glenn beck conspiracy theory\". but then i read:and i was all \"what were we talking about again?\""
"we took our own initiatives and maintain constant communication in order so that we're all informed about what we're doing and how we address things."
"big coalitions will practice small gang warfare only for fun, but when **** hits the fan, the batphone will ring and blobs will form. only small independent entities will fight in small engagements for their life, but small independent entities can't survive in nullsec.the problem is that living in conquerable space requires a pos or an outpost, and you need a blob to defend these structures against another blob.therefore we need small objectives for small gangs, but we even need small, cheap and hard to spot structures as a logistical backbone for small independent entities in 0.0; possibly a new kind of 'safety in space' should be designed, not based on effective hit points and reinforced states, but on invisibility and cheapness."
"why not small-ish player owned stations/mods/things to destroy that can be hidden behind \"invulnerable\" player-placed warp gates (as in mission style) that limit the size of the ship that can move through, or even the number of ships that can move through per hour."
"if you can't find small scale fights to satisfy your e-hounoure bs then you're not trying very hard."
"the csm personally destroyed the new forums, you heard it here first folks."
"+1i already allowed 3 of my accounts to run out last month. the only thing that has been keeping a lot of accounts active including mine is the training skills. this game keeps subscribers for one reason over all others. skill advancement and hope/belief"
"about the only thing to come from hilmar's mouth in 2 years is \"our target is 600k subscribers everyone\"yeah..... aiming for a subscriber target above all else was smartest move in the middle of building 2 new unrelated products.funny part of that vid is the looks of horror from the devs as he randomly barges into rooms shouting it."
"guys, i feel your pain. i truly truly do. eve has been ruined for you. you see no value in this game and therefore you want to leave. but why leave without sending a message? seeing as you see no value in this game, you must also so no value in your assets, however in that you are mistaken. i am here to provide your assets with value. the final message of disdain for eve that you can send to ccp is through publicly abandoning your assets and isk to me. send them to me and i will start a thread with your player name and details of the abandoned assets, which will surely create a strong message for ccp. show them you mean business. send me your isk, your ships, your stockpiles. i will bear the burden of all of them and make sure that your clear dislike of the game is heard throughout new eden. these pixels mean nothing to you, let me give show you one last moment of value for them.edit: if you are willing to hold your ground with me then bully to you. but for all those that have made their public proclamations of abandonment i submit to you the following service, which is outlined above"
"i support this product and/or service. in this case, advice from the market gurus."
"supported with both hands."
"that's where you're totally wrong.at worst, we're cutting back from multiple accounts to a single active account.eve has not yet been ruined for us, we do not wish to leave, but we fear that soon, it might actually come to that.we wish to at least try to prevent that from happening."
"i can only agree to akita. while i still think incarna at least is a good thing, it shouldn't come at the cost of the rest of the game being neglected. take people from wod to work on incarna, don't take them from eve - we're paying for *this* game, not the other two.and the most important thing: when the marketing department starts to have a say in game design, fire them. too many developers have been ruined by people pretending to know about games by quoting \"market data\". i really don't want ccp to be one of them."
"common sense proposal is common sense"
"the argument here isn't that suicide ganks aren't fun or that they shouldn't be allowed, the issue is that if you rob a bank and get caught, you don't get to keep the money. suicide ganking, which breaks the law in high sec, should come with a price and that price is not being reimbursed for an illegal activity.you want to break the law and lose your ship, fine, if its worth it for the vendetta kill or loot drop, then by all means, but no reimbursement through insurance. if concord has to destroy your vessel, it should also void your insurance contract.think of it as another much needed isk sink added to eve."
"he isnt trying to express a position, elfa. hes trying to elicit emotional response. hes a griefer. thats what they do. some might think that allegation is an insult, but it isnt and it isnt intended to be. mits enjoys causing grief, brags about causing grief and claims to be a sadist. hes actually very honest in this regard.-windjammer"
"1. u just filled in your own blanks so there's your answer. and u can add sec status penalty and kill rights to that as well. 2. news flash--criminals regularly \"break the law\" in low sec and can use fake ids (high sec alts) and operate under the front of a legal business (high sec mining) to fund their illegal activities. on one identity, they stay relatively safe under concord and at the same time, they're deemed criminals on the other. so for even better isk sinks, what's better than restricting all -10's alts only to where they're allowed to be? or better yet, void insurance completely for everyone?"
"and for the nth time, it's fine to make the \"laws\" in hi-sec more 'realistic', but the net effect would be (and you're well aware of this) also be to make it safer. as long as this is balanced by making the law enforcement more realistic as well, then no problemo."
"that doesn't make any sense at all. i didn't vote for him, but i still agree with his position on this. furthermore, ccp aren't going to make a change (even one as sensible as this) just because the csm chair tells them to. do you think you might be taking things a bit to personally? i think i have a spare level 80 tinfoil hat if you think it's some kind of conspiracy. suicide gankers should get zero insurance payout."
"thats further down on the agenda. lets not get ahead of ourselves."
"ok folks, you want more realistic law enforcement? how about this, instead of concord destroying your ship, they arrest you and confiscate your ship. basically, after your arrest, you would find yourself in your pod, docked at the concord outpost station for whatever system you were arrested in. (there would be one per system) you would be free to go right away, but to get your ship back, you would have to pay a fine equal to whatever the average regional price is for the ship that was confiscated. (equipped modules would stay equipped and not be counted in the cost of the fine) if you don't have the money to get your ship out of impound, 5% of the fine will be added to the fine every day until you do. you would receive the same concord standings penalty as before.this idea solves several issues. makes things more realistic  negates the insurance mess costs more to the ganker to retrieve his ship but allows him to keep the modules he paid for. (this allows for gankers to equip more expensive modules to their ships allowing for greater alpha without having to worry about losing them as long as they can afford to get their ship out of impound.creates a larger isk sink by forcing players to pay large amounts to concord instead of just putting insurance payouts back into the economy.thoughts?"
"supported"
"l2closequotes bro, your ocd coping problems aren't the game's problems, suggesting pointless features whose only purpose is to satisfy your ocd cravings is pathetic, and in no way helpful to anything. admittedly my suggestions have been more then a little absurd and ridiculous, they're on the same level of pointless fringe-pandering stupidity as your original proposal if you'd managed to fail to grasp the entirety of the sarcasm.are you still here? haha. no-one cares what you have to say."
"you are quite right. there are several more important issues that need to be addressed. however, since those have been covered by other threads, i chose to address this one. thank you for your comment."
"of course im still here, i assume you're old enough to have a firm grasp of object permanence, but i may be wrong. if you'd failed to notice the excessively lackluster support for your idea, apparently scarcely anyone cares what you've got to say either, yet at least it lends me some mild entertainment."
"but... well... uh... ok...actually, best idea thus far. supported."
"making eve even slower?who thought that would ever be a good idea :>"
"yesplox."
"oh realy"
"1.0"
"yep. good idea.tick!"
"pointless interference. my character is born an adult every time it dies an adult.go break your own immersion some place that might matter."
"makes more sense, doesn't hurt anyone who isn't in favour of the change and shouldn't take 3 months and an entire team to implement.ok, i could be wrong on that last point."
"it's a minor change that hurts nobody if made, should be trivial to implement, and makes more rp sense.supported."
"supported."
"it sounds like a good plan to me."
"seems to fit better."
"and, of course my own support as well. =p"
"then i suppose you would agree to having your date of birth changed each time you are vat born? you weren't vat born with the knowledge of being a pod pilot nor with any of the other skills. your character started out actually being born and having a 'normal' life until you decided to go for the capsuleer training which is when, in your character's life history, you started the game. thus this proposal makes absolute sense since we aren't being born into the game, we are being certified as a pod pilot.should be an easy fix too. just a matter of changing some text...+1 supported"
"nice."
"i like the born on date more. we are not still human. they toil, they get old and sick, they die.we don't get sick, we don't get old, we don't get hurt. we have wealth beyond what they can ever dream of. we can store massive volumes of information in our heads.we simply are.when we became capsuleers we become something new, and whatever you want to call it, we are no longer human. our born on date is simply when we became what we are now."
"i think the \"date of birth\" is the date we became a pod pilot, ie immortal. it was our date of birth, at which point we ceased to have the ability to perminantly die (barring a bad accident with the cloning)."
"..."
"make them bigger. supercarrier, though, is a fine name. \"assault carrier\" just reminds me of this ("
"i'll support this because realism is affected by this class's model size."
"i'm sensing a lot of pee-pee size insecurity in this thread. say it ain't so guys?a man shall not be judged by the size of his ship, but by the content of his carrier!"
"i bolded your points in particular that i agree with - the ones in italics made me go 'wtf?' initially, but i think that it could make for an interesting sub-division of skill training. however, i believe that this latter point is probably beyond the purview of my thread thanks for your comment!"
"ccp = flawed.csm serves one function, to act as a buffer to the general discussion forum.this keeps bad publicity from the eyes of potential new customers.don't believe me?watch the 50 page threads go for months without response.then watch the same thread get a quick patch within 2 days on general discussion.nothing but a way of hiding bad publicity and very, very occasionally a source of free labour."
"much like your posting.(the csm is a good thing(tm); getout)"
"yeah?"
"the mittani is on what appears to be good terms with ccp, and seleene is fairly in there. i don't see how it matters though. csm will do csm things. ccp will do ccp things. why should it matter if they are friends? that should only help things really. ccp is quite competent when they put their collective minds to it, and had brought us this much of eve, with or without csm's involvement. how much effect csm has had to date is debateable, which is why i say that.don't worry about it.edit: ccp dev's seem to be a bit bloodthirsty and trollish, so you're actually kinda right about the pvp thing still, they realize that the game isn't just pvp, and they have more than one crowd to please. just look at incarna, for completely non-pvp oriented expansion content. in a lot of cases, it seems pvp griefers, gankers and trolls would be perfectly happy with mud, if it afforded them the same carebear tears overall. a lot of them were furious over incarna, and the work on the character creator.ccp will do what they want, with a minimum of encouragement from the community and some mind to the response to brain-pooling with csm. end result is, eve is ccp's brainchild, not ours, and they'll do what they want with it. in a way, that's how it should be, and i support them in that decision for the most part. they haven't truly disappointed me thus far, so why shouldn't i. sure, i got my things...- modular pos structures, with a much simpler interface. 3d interaction with the pos in overlay mode, allowing greater control over many features in building, operating and maintaining a pos. - a minimalized hud, which allows for better functionality in combat situations, or even other area's. even the possibility of optional hud environments would be cool.- better research and manufacturing, with the ability to modify bpo's, or make your own. a bit involved in the number process, but perhap's an approval system could be worked out, where completion is partially a petition process that ccp has to approve, (grant success beyond simple ratio's and random numbers). importantly, this one would allow for modifications within set parameters.- reduced times on research, and better invention method's. more control over reverse engineering.- more t3 ships, and updates on a lot of the older ship models, like we saw with the caldari scorpion.- some level of ship customization.- ship rebalances and additional classifications- more effective industrials- an in game voting system with the release of incarna or shortly after. we could use this to vote for not only yes or no questions from ccp to the playerbase, but csm candidates for future csm elections. greater exposure, through these and billboard advertising.- additional levels to player communication and organizations. secret organizations and the means of layering them over and through corps and alliances. a member is a member, wherever they are.- api enhancements that make the former possible, even with the release of a full api.- etc..."
"wouldn' that be a good thing having csm and ccp as friends rather than enemies?being friends - makes for a better working relation between ccp and csm which is passed down to player. being enemies - makes for a bad relationship between ccp and csm, thus ideas that csm have will get ignored.some people really need to grow a brain cell and grow some balls and post with their main...."
"this thread is nothing more than a personal attack on nc and goon perpetrated by someone who has undoubtedly been anal probed or butt secksed by them before and is now angry that they hold a majority on csm6.if not, then why hasn't the op's valiant opinion popped up in previous csm's?you have something against the nc ad goon op, get in a ship ingame and handle your business like man instead of cluttering up the forum with tear threads disguised as ingenious ideas."
"(edited to add support counter..)fittings aint working for me at all.one newly saved fit went onto server (which i didnt want anyway).hit browse button, get a list of fits from which i can choose 49..hit ok, nothing happens.have no idea if my local fits will even be accessible even if it had worked?i don't want limiting to 50 fits, at all. i save fits to help other folks out and keep my good fits too.proposal: make \"server-side fitting save\" optional, like a backup facility of fits you really dont wanna lose and keep the old functionality on own drive as \"normal use\".right now i can't access any fits at all."
"ccp doesnt listen to csm, and will only listen somewhat if they are supporting an idea they are considering to do.in other words the csm is just for show to make us think we have a say in how the game works.edit:though the idea is nice...maby give low sec some super valuable gas clouds."
"having read the article, i would love to see something like this happening.i have dabled a bit in drugs, and plan to do more with it when i get back to eve in fuller swing than the activity level i have now.i'm mainly an industrialist, and a blockade runner. i generally don't go out of my way to hunt people as pirates do, but when action comes my way, i won't back down from it. my first exploits in low sec and drug manufacture were interesting, and quite profitable. i'd love to be able to crank that up and get it into full swing.the biggest issue i had with it, was getting the gas in the first place. while it's about 50% of the income generated from the whole manufacturing process, harvesting gas was always a pain. the good gas is out in sov-space, not in low sec. i've even considered setting up a 1 man corp and go out to sov space to see if i can set up a drug lab over there, renting from the local overlords. ( this idea is still very bright in my mind )low sec really needs a boost, and having something like it being the place to make drugs, as well as a semi-sov system with the corruption/vigilanty thingy in place, would be totally awesome."
"after skimming the first 2/3s of name dropping i finally got to the actual mechanics. they are pretty bad. both sides are trying to swing the corruption level here is what he writes:.but pve impacts corruption level at a much slower rate than pvp. as the corruption level of a system changes, corrupter or vigilante-themed abilities are unlocked. for example, corrupters are able to bribe station managers into secretly increasing the docking timer on another player, adding an abrupt and panicked end to anyone trying to play the undock-redock game. bombings and sabotage are also an option. vigilantes unlock concord payouts from destroying corruptor ships, allowing them to truly be bounty hunters, since podkilling someone in lowsec without a dictor bubble is nearly impossible. either side can pervert a system's sentry guns to shoot the opposing group, assuming a system has swung to them.giving one side pvp advantages will simply mean more people will pile on the winning team. consider faction war. lets say you fight for gallente. what if when caldari were winning the war they started getting these sorts of advantages? you cant dock as fast as they can! they get sentry gun help! say goodbye to any frigate combat. would that make the game more enjoyable for you? i have to say this sounds horrible for either side. moreover basing large advantages on pvp kills is just easily exploited. how many times do i need to kill my throw away alts insured t1 ship before we win the war? this is the main reason we know they cant do allot of awards for kills in fw. yet the article doesnt even address this issue. have npcs join in on pvp by bribing them? well again we can see how well this works with faction war plexes. at best the npcs do nothing significant at worst they prevent the pvp from happening. really why cant people just accept that no one really wants npcs either applying unknowable amounts of dps to them or whoring their killmails. keep the npcs out of pvp. give use mechanics were we can find real quality pvp.i mean i dont care if they want to start a new sort of fw under a different name, where you call one side good guys and another bad guys. that seems pretty simplistic to me, but the actual mechanics are what is ultimately going to make it good or bad. those mechanics sound horrible."
"more perks to people living outside of high sec, would be good."
"re-reading my post to find where i said \"this is the one and only solution to fix low sec.\" nope, still haven't found it."
"if you cant be bothered to be factually accurate and/or relevant in your posts, why should i be (when replying to you)?more on topic:i dont often agree with caerin, but he and frank wordfilterlitz have illustrated the major flaws. **** mechanics are **** mechanics (and that doesnt depend on if you believe the fairy tale that lowsec is a ghost town)"
"perhaps it would hep if they moved officer mod spawns from the safety of null to low sec. it would definitely cause pain to bot farmers and give more targets to low sec pilots."
"the subject of neutral logistics and agro/docking/jumping mechanics has been brought up many times in the past. many people would agree that it is an issue, and many would also say that its something thats getting noticeably worse. its quite common in the main market hubs to see gangs getting into fights with more neutral logistics ships than combat ships. whats more, its very common place to see people using very expensive ships and setups in what is not too far from risk free pvp  which to many, including myself, seems unbalanced, and far from what eve aspires to be.im not going to throw any extra ideas into the mix with regards to game mechanics, as it seems like many good ideas have already been presented. from simple solutions such as remote assistance modules resulting in a docking/jumping timer, to sharing whatever timers the receiving party has, to some more complicated but interesting solutions that revolve around new timers when ships providing support are aggressed.instead of all of this, i just wanted to know - does ccp and or the cms consider the current mechanics of logistics, in particular neutral logistics, docking and jumping mechanics, to be an issue? in turn, is it something that ccp or the cms plan to look at some point in the foreseeable future?thanks in advance for taking the time to read my post, and for any comments or feedback you might have on it."
"neutral logistics is and will be an issue until the current mechanics are addressed. remote repping and other logistical support should 100% cause a timer, no reasonable argument against it."
"it certainly is an issue, and dealing with players that like to make use of these sort of mechanics is dreadfully annoying. you can even look as far as neutral bumpers when it comes to mechanics exploits - but i am sure there is no way ccp would even think about trying to do something with that.i believe it was mentioned at one point that they were going to implement some kind of changes to the undock mechanics that would stop people from de-aggressing and docking up, combined with the ability to see outside of the station while docked, but it has probably not been mentioned again by them in over a year... not promising"
"yes! the changes proposed would be amazing - and increase the amount of ships pwnt which is something ccp wants. i hope that the csm can step up and follow the lead of their predecessors to advocate for this change."
"i totally agree that there should be a station aggression timer for aiding someone with aggressionhow ever gate timers would make it extremely hard to roam with logis in low sec as they have to keep repairing each other against gate guns they get shot by by having gccso in order to move one gate they would have to wait out their gcc just to have to rep someone else in the next system and have to wait it out again to be able to move on"
"neutral assistance represents the same problem that a hot-drop does: an unscoutable additional force that can not be countered except by one of your own .. naturally it is being abused to no end.i no longer engage known alt users at all, be it logis, boosters or cynos. kind of running low on pew because of that though .. so many damn alts around"
"so ccp showed a video for the new nebulas at fanfest, the video is here:"
"this would be pretty cool. the position of the nebula should relate to your location - if you're in branch, the nebula should appear when you spin your camera to face towards galactic south, with relative blackness in all other directions.what would be really awesome would be if the visible stars related to the actual positions of other systems in the cluster."
"i agree, this would give it a nice feel when flying."
"i do believe the idea is that the orientation of spatial anomalies will change based on your physical location in a region."
"that's certainly cool, but since there's no way to judge \"south\" in the game, will anybody really be able to tell?"
"the eve and all the systems that we currently know are only a fraction in size compared to what would be a full galaxy. in fact i believe it was stated that what we currently know of eve is only part of the galaxy it is in. so who is to say that we are not in fact towards the center of the eve galaxy and we just haven't seen the rest of the galaxy yet?"
"i cannot agree with you more. the vast majority of my pve experience in this game comes from fighting serpentis, so i'm only going to comment on them. there are tons of missing ships, where are the elite tier 1 and tier 2 bcs, where are the elite (non faction) bs let alone the tier 3s.i'd like to see all of the race's hulls represented in the local npcs ships."
"it only seems logical doesn't it? mission runners rarely get any additions to their gameplay and this would certainly be a welcome one."
"supported"
"i feel your pain fellow capsuleers. ccp has screwed up one too many times, and their recent developments have shown you that this is a game you can no longer care about, that you see no future in. eve has lost its value to you. but ho, what light through yonder window breaks? tis i! i have come to help, in the only way i can.before you cancel, before you biomass, do one last thing. since eve has lost it's luster to you it is only fair to say that your assets and isk have as well. you think they are worthless as you hover your finger over the biomass button, but they are not. what better way to send a message to ccp than to publicly give away your assets.i am hear to provide you that service. send me your isk, send me your ships. i will bear the burden and stay in this game, and more i will announce your disdainful rejection of their values in this thread, detailing the pilot name, and what they abandoned.some may call this simple charlatanism and i will reply with \"for shame, how dare you impugn my honor\". these people have clearly stated that the game is worthless to them, why would they do otherwise? sure, some may simply quietly cancel their accounts, but many others feel that it is important to send a final message to ccp. and what better message would there be than abandoning the property that they feel ccp has made worthless? what better final statement is there than to look at the currency of a failed government and to freely throw it in the streets?i can think of none.so yes. i am here to provide a service for you. let ccp know how you really feel by publicly devaluing the assets of their game. send me your isk, send me your ships, send me your minerals. i will heroically take it all and regail the remaining few of how little you value this game.also, spread the word. when someone announces in a threat that they're leaving the game, let them know of my humble service and i will see that their message is heard."
"*reserved*send me your tired, your poor, your huddled assets."
"i support this by also accepting assets of any kind"
"what style!what flair!such eloquence!best \"i can haz ur stuffz?\" ever."
"a wonderfully designed begging thread is still just a begging thread.locked."
"we have no ability to moderate this forum. the csm has never had the ability to moderate the forum and we do not have the ability to appeal directly to moderators to remove subjects we don't like or disagree with. if your topic or posts were deleted it was most likely because you broke a rule. please redraft your threads or posts related to your complaints and repost them if you feel it necessary."
"hey opplease read hot topics of the assembly hall. wiki forum link and link to the original thread are there."
"glad to hear itwhite three, for god sakes, hybrids is the gate to the whole game for those who trained only that system, please fix it, or just tell ccp to start thinking about it. when the gate does not work it affects everything else."
"i am a gallente pilot myself, so i know what you're going through. getting something done about it is a part of my mandate as csm, and csm6 is concerned about balancing as a whole."
"do want! =dhowever i do agree that it should use ammo that should be rather expensive i could even imagine different types that only work for certain distances like a basic cheap one goes 5au(like 2k isk) up to 50au and then 1 system 3 systems 5 systems(this one should however cost like 10mil or more)however i think that every ship should have a special bay for them maybe even different sized bays for different ship sizes also performance should be the most important part about all this if its gonna cause lagg its bad but i think it wont be a problem if there is an option to turn it off so in big fleets you would just have it turned off"
"this idea is awful."
"oh no, man on holiday consumes alcoholic drink, quick call the internet police!"
"oh no, sarcasm from a goon in which an 8 day bender becomes possibly one drink. its so unexpected. whatever shall i do?"
"did you know that iceland has a phallus museum? yeah."
"congratulations on completely missing the point. what business of yours is it if anyone got drunk at fanfest? are you suggesting that internet spaceship players should be statesmanlike in all areas of their life both before and after their election to the csm? what about if a csm member cheats on their wife? should they be impeached?"
"windy's next angry internet letter writing campaign will be to let tentonhammer know that they must fire mittens because he was drinking at an important internet spaceships political forum."
"10-30 supercarriers can accomplish some sov war objectives, does it count as small scale warfare?"
"this is a really great idea. unfortunately, according to the last dev blog, it seems csm only cares about fixing lag for their blob fleets. not really a surprise, after all."
"what would you consider a \"real goal\"? there are plenty of things you can do with a 10-30 man fleet, why are none of them \"real goals\"?"
"a group i spoke too want to be able to do real, significant damage to 0.0 infrastructure with small gangs and disrupt the operations of 0.0 alliances in a meaningful way. take from that what you will."
"will highlight again for ya"
"i think you'll find there are plenty of small, independant entities surviving in npc 0.0. as for conquerable space, goonswarm has 6000 member and 60 sovereign systems for about 100 members per system. test has about 70 members per system, even pl has about 65 members per system (although i doubt they rat much in them). explain how your 10-30 man organisation is 3-10 times more deserving of space than those people?i've seen this \"small gangs should be able to take space\" argument before and what it usually boils down to is people are unaware of how much effort actually goes into taking and holding space. or they know full well how much and don't want to have to do the work themselves.really what it comes down to is not the lack of goals available, but the fact people want disproportionate rewards for their input.and for the record i don't think i've flown in a large fleet since goonfleet's first invasion of cloud ring. most of my pvp is gangs of 10-30 but i don't get worked up because i'm not causing lasting harm to anyone because my goals are proportionate to my the effort i'm putting in."
"i am of the opinion that windjammer is a bad poster and am not lying about this in the least.-windjammer"
"good for you. honest opinion. incorrect, but im almost sure its honest.in that you believe in sharing your honest opinion, surely you support the idea of others doing the same. say by writing to support@tentonhammer.com to give their honest opinion of what they think about the article in question.-windjammer"
"i really can't help but be tickled by windy's campaign of libel and admitted attempt to draw negative attention to a business. at the point where he's libeling someone for \"lying... by omission!\" it gets even funnier. i'm sure that tth has no real interest in suing children on the internet, but it's some good ol' fashioned basic irony."
"i'm not sure what you mean by this at all. i am sorry that we weren't prepared for this venture to fall flat on its face. if you absolutely must have a statement right this minute, i think we're going with 'n1 m8s :ccp:' that's literally all we can do. obviously we're as interested in qa as anyone else and we don't want our game and the systems that are attached to it to be broken. given that with the security leaks our security was also at risk, we're not exactly dismissive about it."
"yo we'll discuss it at the q&a, there's not much to say besides 'looks like a structural failure at the corporate level and i guess they hired some incompetent dudes on the forums team, welp good luck fixing the security breach'. what would you like to see, mr \"sees no necessity\"?"
"exactly this \"we're gathering information and will address this at the q&a\".looks like ccp's old pattern:\"we are already working on it but there is nothing to tell now. so what do you expect us to say?\"\"uhm, maybe that you actually are working on it, because you didn't even say that?\"\"well, you do know it now. happy?\"seems like this csm already adopted that very quickly.grats?"
"the csm: now responsible for ccp qa process--even for stuff created and tested before they were elected!"
"look at how much suppressed manlove he has for mittani's babyface. look!"
"the csm is not responsible for any at all(maybe i can find my goon - english dictionary and find out you actually meant something else)but you are right, they shouldn't say anything about it at all.i wonder why they want to discuss it at the q&a then..."
"i fail to see what you expect them to do, or what you think they can do. obviously \"wow, this is a pretty bad failure on the coding team; maybe we need better qa\" is a statement that ccp themselves have already said. the csm can't exactly add to that besides expressing their own disappointment at ccp's failure.i mean, qa has been a sore spot for ccp for years. this shouldn't surprise anyone. i have a feeling it'll be slipped into the csm summit though under the topic heading of \"why **** hasn't gotten implemented yet.\"expecting the csm to excoriate ccp for a security failure that ccp has already rolled back a new feature over--which is friggen unprecedented for them, honestly--is overreacting and akin to throwing a tantrum over a trivial issue. righteous indignation and outrage can be had elsewhere for beter reasons."
"i have a question about the q&a session. i was wondering if befause it is being hosted by my alliance and we are the ones putting forth all the effort in the form of sorting the question, deciding who is allowed to talk and all; will us loyal goons be given priority over the fail empire pubbies?"
"i assume you mean the q&a session with the csm, and i don't believe any one group will be given priority over another. questions will be selected based on them actually making sense and not being absurd, most likely. this means that both test and goonswarm members will be given the lowest priority given that both alliances are composed entirely of unironically terrible human beings."
"you're not a goon, you're just a sock puppet of some angry pubbie trying to make the csm look bad vov fly away~"
"i watched the vids from fanfest recently, and particularly the csm one. during it, it was mentioned that new members to the csm often have a ton of catching up to do on issues, especially those covered by the nda which they have no access to prior to starting their term in office. i think the quote was 1 or 2 months before they get up to speed and fully productive.it seems to me, that being the case, that a change to the election process is in order then. i'd shift the election a month or two earlier. when the winners are announced, they sign the nda soon after that, and essentially take on the powers of the alternates in the current csm (with the exception of active participation in the current csm meetings). essentially that would give them csm forum access to catch up on things, and the right to sit in on any csm/ccp online meetings silently. it would also give them a chance to talk to discuss issues with the current csm, even the ones covered by nda which would make such talks impossible currently.at the very least that should give the new upcoming council time to settle in and get prepared for the start of their term. the first meeting in iceland follows so soon after the term starts, that it only makes sense to me that the more prepared and up to date the new council is ahead of time, the more productive the meeting will be for everyone involved."
"while this is a valid concern, i think it is becoming less of one as the csm evolves. in the case of the csm5->6 handover, we not only had two csm5 members re-elected (myself and meissa), but mynxee prepared a detailed transition document, and the outgoing csm5 members kept their access to the internal forums during the transition (i think they finally are losing it this week).what i would recommend is revisiting this issue in 6 months, and if the current csm thinks a bit more transition time is needed, then we will make a recommendation to ccp in that regard."
"not really true...they're always playing the industry and market game, which is the lifeblood of eve. also, dust is coming soon enough, which turns pi into a battleground.nice idea...i'd love to see more complex mutliplayer interactions in pi."
"supported."
"+1i'd rather be out fighting ppl then sansha or sleepers. also letting 2 accounts go inactive, if trend continues all account will go inactive and i will have to pick up working on my social life this summer."
"bioware just killed their reputation by rushing out a thrashy da2.learn from their mistake."
"little things are still little.by team best friends forever (bff)that was like, one of the most meaningful things ever done to eve since apocrypha.and it was just a mashup of small fixes and improvements."
"they should let players buy shares of the company using plex :d."
"support"
"but the person that was ganked loses all their modules as well as their ship?pimped ganker ship a suicides pimped target ship b. a pays for a new hull, keeps his entire fit and doesnt even have to lose time running around shopping for ship and fittings. b loses everything and gets an insurance payout for the hull only and if it isnt a t1 hull, loses big time on even that.just off the top of my head? no thank you.-windjammer"
"not realy high sec related but:what about death penalty, pirates reaching -5 sec stat would loose all their clones in concord space , and wouldnt be allowed to respawn there eighter, so they can only respawn in 0.0 or in criminal station, if they dont have a contract there thn char is considered dead --> you are a criminal after all , with conseqvencesalso concord should actively hunt these pirates + their pods with low sec raids or similarfor high sec : blown up player ship loot should belongs to that player not to whom blow it up"
"but then how would you do your hulkageddon? the participants would lose isk on every gank!supported"
"why would you gank a hulk in a battleship? you should use ganker thrashers. your arguement is invalid by bad example.ganking a badger laden with datacores and t2 stuff, that's when the ganking gets profitable. how many bp and datacores can a single badger carry, 100k? that much stuff would pay for your next twenty gankpests."
"my main flys a hulk with t2 crystals, a mackinaw with t2 harvesters, and a skiff with the t2 crystal. yet he cannot fly a cruiser. if i had killrights on you, what would i do, kill you in a t1 rifter? the killrights system is useless to my main because he can't fight! if i could transfer killrights to my combat alt, then you'd have reason to be afraid."
"not entirely true. ganking involves a lot of target research. that's why you see so many interceptor craft around jita. you can safely bet that 1/20 of them is some guy going about his business who happens to be in an intercpetor, and the other 19 are using passive targeting to scan ship cargo and fittings. these guys have to appraise cargo and fittings in less than five seconds and either greenlight or say pass on the ship.as for the ganker, it's about as hard as shooting the primary."
"some ppl do use battleships because not everyone ganks for profit. u just assume it's a bad example because u assume no one does it when in actuality, u know almost nothing about suicide ganking.and that falls completely on whether or not the target chooses to do something that stupid. what's your next complaint? easy ganks in low sec/0.0?those r the consequences of hiding behind a weak char for easy isk to escape any fight that's not an easy gank. so stop being so lazy and careless and train for one. or better yet, stop hiding behind that weak miner when u can't handle risk on your alt. and who's your combat alt and what exactly do u do with that char that has u so scared that u have to hide behind another identity just to feel safe?"
"receiving insurance after being destroyed by concord is silly, and should be removed."
"this."
"sure. if they turn up (realistic chance, remember). when they turn up (could be anywhere between 20 minutes to 3 days. again with the realism). if they get the right guy (they'll probably just arrest the nearest minmatar and go and eat donuts). if they even arrest anyone at all (go check out crime clear up rates - they're usually single-digit percentages).oh and as long as we're being realistic, they want paying for their work too."
"the point is that he doesn't get paid for his action by the insurance company and the action taken by concord is far more realistic, and by realism malcanus, i mean arrest of the criminal rather than blowing him up. as far as i know, we don't just gun down murder suspects when we find them, police aren't executioners, they're job is to apprehend.he not only doesn't get the pay out, he has to pay out of pocket to get his ship back. the benefit of keeping his modules is an offset to getting no insurance payouts. plus, most suicide gankers get their ships cheap and in bulk many times which saves them money per hull, but allowing them to keep their modules presents them with the alternative of having to decide to pay average market price in the region to get their ship back in order to keep the modules rather than just going to get the next hull in his inventory.the fact is windjammer, you have to make a damn compromise in what you want if you ever hope to get anything out of this argument. my proposal takes away the insurance payout from the ganker while allowing him to keep his fittings if he's willing to pay far more his old ship than he probably did the first time.the benefits for the ganked: no insurance payout for gankers.the benefits for the gankers: the ability to use more powerful modules in their attacks without fear of loss.you have to give in order to get windjammer. as for the the ganked losing all their stuff, well, thats a hazard of flying anywhere in eve. be smart and you'll never be a gank target.either way, my idea may be the only way the gankers may peacefully accept losing insurance payouts. give to get man, give to get."
"elfa,if police see someone with a gun shoot another person, they usually shoot the shooter, right? besides, eve isnt really as civilized as real life and is that way by design.in your scenario the ganker wins hugely. there isnt a suicide ganker in the game that wouldnt gladly forego the insurance payout in return for being able to keep ship and modules at the paltry price of a hull. this is even without the differential between what insurance/concord accesses a ships hull at and what the ship actually costs on open market. wed suddenly have suicide gankers cruising around in t2, t3 and faction ships pimped out with dead space modules and t2 rigsat least as much as they thought they could get away with and not draw the attention of other gankers.also, in eve, you can get something for nothing and suicide gankers are not by nature inclined to peaceful settlements. i mean, unless you offer them a boost of a deal such as youre suggesting.your heart might be in the right place, but i still dont like your idea. its a ganker big win, ganked utterly screwed sort of thing.regards,windjammerp.s. i have never seen a place in eve where it is possible to be smart enough to completely avoid suicide gankers unless its inside an npc station."
"and u're missing his point, which is u bring up \"realism\" and at the same time, u only nitpick parts of it u like and dismiss parts u don't like. and keep in mind this is a science fiction game.only your compromise screws over a third party, the manufacturers, who will lose sales over this when ppl don't have to replace their ships or mods. furthermore, it can be exploited by anyone to get out of a regular fight, whether it's a gate camp target or a stupid faction-fit missioner who shot his way into a trap--just shoot a neutral or even the station/gate if he're losing and then he'll just avoid a lossmail--hell, he might even get a killmail on whoever he suicided as well."
"it's funny i can change my name in other mmo's and even in real life, but eve's too cool and hardcore even more-so than the ****ing real world to be able to not change something that doesn't even matter that much in a game.whatever, i'd change my name if i could and i don't even hate my name that bad. i guess this game is just the most sacred thing on earth and shouldn't be tampered with. if i had known the game were even more strict than the actual life i live about names, i might have thought about it a little harder, but for a moment there i thought i was just playing a game."
"linkagelinkagelinkagelinkagelinkagelinkageccp hellmar on name change"
"with the recently added \"three names\" thing, i'd absolutely like to change my name. i'd love to give arklan1 here his proper, full name of arklan uth oslin."
"i agree with the above and a bit more too...i'm not strongly against it, but i am against it i would welcome the extra money it would bring into the game, but even with an audit trail on the name change, in the biography or wherever, it makes it easier for people to escape their naughty (tut tut) deeds. i mean, who the feck reads the bio anyway?not supported"
"the fact is that this should be allowed as long as a history is kept public to be seen, which would void all the negatives addressed by this proposal.many players start this game like any mmo and pick some random name or one they brought from another game and once they've been in eve awhile and get into the spirit of it, they wish they had picked a name that better suited the eve universe. or the ones that picked something silly and then ended up taking the game seriously but are stuck being named like a clown.i think its something that should be allowed at least once after your first year in the game. you can change your name in real life and you should be able to do it here for the sake of ingame realism at least.charge a plex for it and make it a one time only event after 1 year of active account holding and let it be kept public what name you had before. problem addressed and solved."
"i support this fully, however i think name change should be a 1 time deal per account. also when the name is changed a eve mail should go out to ever person that has you on their contact list so they know."
"there are entirely too many whiners that do not support a name change, for the stupidest of reasons.i support the option of a name change. especially for those who purchase a character from someone else. this would have no effect on the history of the character, only what name is displayed. purchasing a character, imo, should give the character a new start. the person who purchased the character is highly unlikely to follow in the same path as the seller, and even if they did - so what?@the argument that a name change could some how \"fool\" you into getting you ganked... that is such a noob statement. if you trust every neutral that enters your system, you deserve to be ganked."
"great idea, would make trading much easier for both large-scale traders or the solo pilot selling off all his loot from the last week of missions.+1"
"duh."
"i wholeheartedly support this!"
"yes, please."
"sounds good."
"its been ages that this has been talked about and kicked around. that ccp does not wish to fix the problem due to that many of them play caldari or minmitar pilots damn few play gallente. gallente hybrid guns need to be fixed. there are several possible solutions for this. 1> give all gallente a 10% boost on damage. and blasters a 10% on tracking.2> nerf everyone's weapons except the gallente3> all gallente pilots camp jita and kill anything coming in or out of the gates till ccp fixes this problem. the gallente are second in technology to the other factions. why does this not show?better yet would it be horrible to send in a trouble ticket on our weapon damage not working properly?the only thing i see is that if its not fixed the gallente players will start training up other faction ships and guns but this should not be the solution. we started with gallente and we should be able to enjoy playing them like any other faction pilot out there."
"bump: changed second post of op in regards to fanfest 2011 introducing the new graphics for turrets. can i get any members from the csm6 to ask ccp if they are also considering updating the missile graphics?link to video of the new turrets (which look cool, albeit they all look the same) is in the op with the other missile videos."
"yes please. supported"
"supported."
"yes, anything's better than date of birth."
"howmadru?"
"date of birth doesn't even make sense, eve time is measured differently from real world time. what year is eve on now? something like yc113 i think, so where do they get 2003-2011 from?"
"hey look, this guy eye rolled, he must be right. no wait, he's not, he's just using the eyeroll emote because he thinks he's obviously right, but he's not even close, that's not what i said, nor is it a logical assumption. in fact it's stupid.date of birth is a commonly accepted and understood principle, which is why it's used inappropriately in many applications.maybe get over it?edit:although you know what, no i don't care if the d.o.b. updates every time you get podded. i literally do not care. how do you feel now? angry? mad?insane?! insane that somebody doesn't care to know how old you are?eh? how about that eh... somebody who doesn't care... well the ****ing cheek of it. how very dare they?"
"i never did think of it, but now that you are mentioning it, it will annoy me every time i look at my character sheet ;)"
"1.0"
"yeah, might as well. tiny, tiny change and it makes sense."
"+1 for true sizes of ships"
"white three for president!convince the other csm they dont need to serve a full and ready made solution to ccp. its also ok to just say: \"here is a complicated problem that is hard for the community to agree on, partly because of protecting special interests and partly because its ... complicated!\" none the less hybrids are critical for those it affect, even more so because both rain and blaster are flawed. it thus deserves ccp attention and solution generation."
"being said by a guy flying in fleets of 20/30 men your coment means absolutely nothing and most important add nothing interesting to the discussion but since you want it let me give it to you:for you the real player having the enourmous advantage of the true knowlege how blasterthron works has this in specific:-flyes with 20 or 30 buddies-never fits an armor repairer -what a shame fit is that-doesn't cares about is cap stability -who cares logis are ther to do it aren't they?-doesn't fit something like scram/disruptor or web, it's not the purpose of mega'severything else is fail and used by noobs or \"players\" lacking of knowlege how blasters and mega's work."
"i hope they bring back a lot of stuff that wasnt in the initial release."
"1.0"
"2 thumbs up"
"several posts removed which are just a case of 'you are lying', 'no u!' posts."
"here is a simple idea to decrease the botters and other pilots that exploit the universe of eve.- remove the static asteroid belts and ice fields and replace them with a more dynamic system.- use the ship scanner to locate the asteroid belts and ice fields, updated daily with random locations in a solar system.- list the scanner results of the asteroid belts and ice fields in a random order.- mix this list with one or more dangerous combat sites (faction pirates etc.).this way pilots have to look at the list (similar to captcha mechanic) to warp towards the belts they want. it would be a minor inconvenience for real miners, instead of right click warp to belt they need to open the scanner scan and right click their belt to warp to."
"right, because bookmarking all belts once a day will stop macrominers?or maybe because there are no bot programs able to scan with direct scanner and run chosen sites(hint: there are)?"
"it will not stop them, the scanner which produces a random captcha result list will only make it more difficult. instead of bookmarking once for the rest of their botting life they need to do it daily, the more hassle for them the better. imagine if they have 20+ bots running in different systems."
"i generally support making asteroid mining less static.there are a few improvements to you idea i would like to see.rather than daily random location for belts, constellations should have a constant number of scanable sites for asteroid (grav sites). this means there should always be a good number of grav sites within one or two jumps. when a site despawns, after all the roid have been mined, a new grav site will spawn somewhere in the constellation.grav sites should have varying degrees of difficulty to find, from onboard scanner to elite probe skills. this should appeal to players with varying levels of skill points.the quality of the grav site contents should depend on the degree of difficulty to find it, and the security of the system. other factors like the amount of ore mined in a system may also have impact on the quality of the grav site spawned.static asteroid belts should remain for new players, and ratting, but in hi-sec they should only contain low grade ores which cannot be mined by strip miners."
"well theirs really not to much for us to say since ccp showed us were mining falls on their list. it was second from bottom that was on the screen. most always think that all miners of high sec only use one toon. well very wrong many have 2-3 miners and their orca. i find that the current system makes this difficult as i tryed it with 5miners the belt just vanished and the laser work was a pain. i find the concept of huge rings around planets to be interesting. i wouldn't be to annoyed if high sec was left with the low concentration version i get the high suk concept. but micro scopic roids super annoying and laser that don't stop when the target is done also annoying.if i were to ask for any thing it would be decent size roids im fine with the low to no concentration kinds would like bigger areas harder to find is fine as a large field of so veld would be ok as it'll take a bit to work out.for the fun part. i don't find all the laser work to be much fun after a few hour as its a none stop action chasing them. in pve i don't have this problem as they take ea little longer to kill a ship. i have drones and it only takes one to actually kill a belt rat. i find this to be a 2 second moment of joy and then its done :( i believe if ccp gave us enough cpu/power grid that i can actually use my 4midslots while mineing would help and increase the belt rats considerably and maybe throw in some thin bigger then a frig. in null i personal love the mineing version guys and the attackers to protect them was great fun killing them with the orca and finding a cargo hold full of great loot.now i do find it annoying that every one has this dream that a miner always have huge amounts of money so not true it takes many hours of moving low value items to make a decent sum of money. as i can take one or 2 t2-t3 ships and do combat and make more faster. but since i like building stuff i have done mine threw my eve carrer. throwing in the cobat and bounties would be great only concern is if i kill to many of them will it murder and rep with other faction like gallente as they seem to drop stupid fast already."
"sounds good to me."
"1. log in one character.2. scan for belts.3. make bookmarks.4. share bookmarks to all of your alts.5. ...6. profit!!!your proposal doesn't solve anything."
"any bot not coded by a mentally stunted chimp eating crayons and sniffing glue would have no difficulties handling the ship scanner just fine. so... only mostly effective. unfortunately it wouldn't take them rolling their faces on their keyboards very long to overcome this obstacle."
"dear lord no"
"i beleave that the reason is why they are waiting is becouse the ships already need to be redesigned for the visble missle launchers... thats why they havend done more ships after the scorpion, the new designs will come out together with the visible launchers."
"basically one major issue with the drone regions is the lack of npc space anywhere near it.currently most other major regions have npc stations/space nearby, here's what i know of so far: -mordu's legion/sisters of eve in pure blind -society of conscious thought in geminate-thukker tribe in great wildlands-serpentis in fountain-ore in outer ring-intaki syndicate in syndicate-guristas in venal-sanshas in stain-blood raiders in delve-angels in curseas can be seen by the following list, there is no npc space anywhere near the drone regions, the nearest being lowsec followed by great wildlands, geminate and then venal. what does this mean? a whole section of space is essentially an invulnerable fortress, as people can not live there unless they are allied with whoever happens to own the drone regions (it's one massive bloc).by establishing a region owned by an npc rogue drone faction players would be given the option to live in and experience this space, instead of the current regime where you're forced to rent from one of the drf alliances. this would also reduce the fortress like nature of this group of regions, as it would give small gangs a place to base out of and give people an area in which to stage capitals.the other aspect of this would be to completely redo the rogue drones as an npc faction/type of rat. currently the drone regions suffer from the fact that these \"rogue drones\" lack the good loot table of other npc factions, this should be fixed. a new set of implants that would give +15/25% drone bonus damage (not applied to fighters/fighter bombers) and +15/25% drone hitpoints (again, not applied to fighters/fighter bombers) would make drones a much more viable weapon system. new armor tanking modules could be introduced (similar to the blood/sansha/serpentis loot table), this would give a much needed boost to drone plexing and ratting. i could envision that all of the base faction (not deadspace, as per usual) loot would be purchaseable in the npc lp store, which would be in the stations owned by this new npc faction, ship bpcs could also drop/be purchaseable, this is discussed in the next paragraph.the last thing that would be cool to add would be ships that utilize the \"infested\" models seen in-game already. the most obvious racial combination for these ships would be using gallente/amarr, this is one of the few combos not present in the game (the other being caldari/minmatar). this would leave the obvious choice of these ships to give drone damage/hp bonuses for levels of gallente ship, and then armor resist for levels of amarr ship. to balance out this obviously powerful combination there would have to be a severe lack of midslots (2 at frig/cruiser max, 3 for the bs max). by adding these new ships it would make the drone regions much more valuable, and interest people in the rogue drone factions a lot more."
"i believe the lack of amarr/gallente and caldari/minmatar ships is possibly intentional as they haven't really interacted with each other much from the whole roleplay/story prospective. that assumes ccp really plans effectively, which i'm moderately sure they don't, thus the drone regions, lowsec, sov, fw, rr, tyrannis market exploits, supercaps, being dead-locked into single-core nodes, and a great many other things.giant blue blobs are either sad, or epic nes mini-boss fights. so..."
"i normally take most things on the chin and find a work around and get on with it, but i am seriously considering whether eve is worth playing anymore. eve is a game after all, its supposed to fun. where is the fun in grinding for 5 hours for every battleship i want to fly?the latest patch (anoms nerf), supposedly meant to increase pvp, has done the exact opposite. how do i pvp more with less isk? simple answer is i can't.i know people will say move away from ratting/anoms and into mining/moons/pos but those areas are either very time consuming or run like a cartel that i have no way of forcing my way into.the fighting for better space arguement is laughable too, fight against people who run bots 23/7? what exactly are we supposed to fight them with when it takes 5 hours to fund even a battleship?btw like the majority of my alliance i dont own a supercap, i dont even own a carrier, i spend all my isk on sub-cap pvp."
"another one *sigh*how ever did you get along prior to dominion when ccp stupidly handed out the isk plates to the general population.the easy isk is bad for the game as a whole and has been replaced with the much more involved exploration plexes (more isk but more work).if you want to improve circumstances then why not run the new content, give feedback and maybe spawn rates and quality of the plexes can be improved."
"sanctums are only marginally better isk than lvl4s (in a marauder) and not everybody was doing them with bots 23/7, so calling it easy isk is far from the truth. your way out of touch with the average 0.0 player. sanctums worked for us because we could spend more time in combat, the majority didnt use them for botting towards a supercap.have you tried finding this new content? all i can find is grav/mag and whs, 6/10 - 10/10s seem to have vanished. then there is the small matter of getting to the plex first, which isnt easy when your competing with people using multiple probing alts."
"well its trueisk making is key to learning pvp for inexperienced players (cuz they loose ships like a motherfker), but at the same time everything is being done to lure (or drag or force) players into .4-00 where they can get shot. for some reason the hardcore part of eve is totally dominating now, and while that can be fun, its also very time consuming and thus detrimental for the casual player. it is from the large base of casual players that hardcore pvp'ers grow so lets try not to ignore their pleas completely, ok???"
"the 0.4 and less systems arent anymore dangerous than before because when you live in 0.0 you always have your eye on local, have safe/pos bookmarks. they are just permantently busy so you have little chance of running a sanctum.pvp costs isk so the rewards should be far greater in 0.0 space, otherwise whats the point of 0.0?dont think this wont effect players that stay in empire, we all have alts that can turn their attention to piracy/suicide ganking and griefing wardecs as an alternate source of income to fund our thirst for pvp."
"have you tried flying ships that you can afford? that way you'll waste even less time pveing."
"good advice, and yes i always do.im talking more sov related pvp though, can't see how this is going to lead to more 0.0 conflict.i suspect its more to do with cheap plex."
"obviously its not possible that the increased resources in 0.0 caused more people to move there, or that the general increase in game population means more resources are needed to support people at the same levels of income. that would be stupid, why would anyone possibly think that."
"since the problem the anom nerf was supposed to fix was isk inflation, why not just change the way anoms work from giving bounties to giving modules that must be sold to gain said isk, or lps? that way the anoms (and probably incurisons as well, soon) won't be contributing to the isk inflation."
"or ccp can get a ****ing clue and fix the real isk inflation issue which is tech moons. make them dynamic so they deplete and respawn at different moons throughout the region...a little common sense goes a long way ccp."
"never forget to add to coments like this one that the easy isk is not for the comun player but to mega corps/alliances, what's next?- i've buyed a pirate ship that is reerved to the elite professional players?if too much isk is not good for the game they should start by nerfing those wallets making billions per day and not the raters/mission runners/explorers. i get it, for you whoever doesn't play in a big alliance/corp shuldn't even play eve?or do you think those corps/alliances flying all those nyx's and titans full dead space/officer fit did them with buyed isk(plex) ?"
"you don't understand currency inflation. as an example, let's take iron in the real world. as demand for iron increases, the price for iron goes up. however, unless more currency is released into the market, this just increases the cost of living (meaning everyone's income did not increase but the cost of products increased).the issue with moon goo is that there is a fixed max amount produced, a production level that has already been reached, and an increasing demand. ccp has been doing some pretty terrible economic policy to deal with this, namely allowing for currency inflation to offset lack of supply (a real world example would be roughly the last decade of us monetary policy).why is that bad policy? simply put, the product driver maintains value while ever other product decreases in value relative to the currency. this is generally seen as bad monetary policy. if ccp wanted to fix moon goo, they would need to make it more dynamic. basically, there should be a way to pay more to extract more."
"patience my dear. the blog specifically stated that the anomaly change was done first as it was the easiest to do .. meaning all income is likely being revised.moons are probably going to be hit hard as hell so the fat-cats will get theirs, don't worry inflation is as bad in a game such as eve as it is in the real world, plex prices have almost doubled since their introduction for goddess sake .. talk about hitting the little guy .. that is a direct result of too much isk in circulation.thanks to the greedy idiots in null i now have to put in twice the hours to pay for my free ride . kill all the easy isk!"
"an own alliance guy that doesn't know how economics works. how absolutely shocking."
"if you are poor, you can't live in nullsec.if you live in nullsec, you aren't poor.if you are poor and in nullsec, i'd suggest pulling down the towers and moving to hisec before your neighbor finds out you're poor."
"your logic is undeniable."
"/agreeseems that eve game's about consequences of the choices you make, so this one is completely broken and decision=consequences image gets a good slap...the actual mechaninc is totaly screwed, you can rep has neutral without being bodered but you can't rep your own corp/alli guys without seeing the pos shoot your ship (after engagements, something already repported) isn't that awesome?"
"be careful here... rr is an important part of small gangs, big fleets, and pos/sov operations. the proposed changes will have a significant rippling affect. should remote repping someone cause aggression??? i can see a legit argument for chaining down aggression, but i don't think this is \"easy\" to implement. especially with the current mechanics! if you notice current gcc mechanics, repping a ship with a gcc resets your gcc. in essence, two logies that previously ascertained a gcc can not get rid of the gcc as long as they are repping each other. now, if repping a ship with aggression resets your aggro timers too (the ones that prevent you from docking/jumping), then 2 logistics that previously incurred an aggression timer could never de-aggress while repping each other. this would be terrible for fleet fights. essentially, any fleet that tries to deaggress because the battlefield changed against them would either leave behind all of their logistics to die, or give up logistics for the time it takes to deaggress. if the mechanics can be altered so rr'ing doesn't reset the timers, but just transfer's the current timer (!!!!reliably!!!!!), then you can transfer docking/jumping aggro timers too, but not until then! note: while this change makes some sense, your essentially giving logistics pilots hell in doing so. gate/docking mechanics are one of the few saving graces a logi pilot has to mitigate the risk to their fairly expensive ship. risking 150m isk ships to save the typical bc hull is often just not worth it! especially since they are typically primaried!"
"this. it would also stop the \"gang jumps into another gang, all ships reapproach gate, logistics ships rep until they get to low health, then jump out and return a minute later\" phenomenon. if you're contributing to a fight, you should be aggressed, simple as that. \"what do you mean i might have to risk my ship expensive ship when fighting in it! ridiculous!\"by your logic maybe we'd see fewer drake / scimitar gangs... definitely a plus in my book."
"cta 2000 evei would like to have people who post proposals as well as anyone who reads forums, as well as your corp mates, alliance mates, your cats, your dogs, your family, your cousins to show up and help ccp do their tests. to put it simply, its in your best interest.sincerely yourskrutoj the destroyercsm 2011 alt"
"i'll come, if they are testing a way to stop macros. you up for that?"
"zzzzzzing!! nice one."
"i will help ccp make bigger blobs if they give me 500k skill points on tranquility and not 2 million worthless skill points on singularity. to me that's a fair deal i would be there for every test if they did that."
"if you take a look at the galaxy on the ingame map, you can see the spiral arms and all. it looks to have to right proportions for a normal spiral galaxy. so i'd say we've covered most of it."
"new eden is most likely a tightly clustered dwarf galaxy that orbits a larger galaxy."
"if thats the case, wow... we should see it then from every system, though, looming in the distance. it would be amazing looking. as for the op i fully agree. furthermore i would add that some of the nebulae shouldn't be sprawling accross the entire system, but should have a small angular size, only revealing thier full detail when zoomed in."
"the impression i got from the fanfest video was that this is exactly what they are going to do.from a lore point of view, i imagine that new eden is a cluster of stars formed around some vast emission nebula like the eagle nebula. for new eden to be a galaxy it would need billions of stars.i do hope they address some of the inconsistencies on the suns on new eden. many of the suns show a red lens flare which give the impression of a red run, but they produce a white light. also when some lens flare fade out the sun also disappears."
"the eve cluster is most certainly not a galaxy, or even a small dwarf galaxy, it's only about 150-200 light years across according the jump range of capital ships.a normal spiral galaxy is at least 100,000 light years across. a dwarf galaxy is still 10,000 light years across (example the sagittarius dwarf elliptical galaxy in our own milky way neighborhood).basically, anything like a stellar nebula that is many light years across should be visible over multiple constellations. and as you get further out it should get smaller. that would be an ideal addition to these new nebulas. but nebulas that exist in the core systems of eve would still probably be visible from the furthest systems of null, they would just be much smaller.example, the tarantula nebula is 35 light years across, meaning if a similar sized nebula was located near the catch region, it would span all the way from querious to insmother and be visible easily from anywhere in eve."
"this. the playable area of eve is far too small to be a galaxy in its own right. a globular cluster maybe, though the amount of heavy metals would be inconsistent with being in such a cluster.as far as nebulae go, when traveling around the playable space of eve, we really shouldn't be seeing completely different nebula formations. in fact, we really shouldn't be able to visibly see nebulae that close to the playable part of eve, as that would put us on the leading edge of an arm, where old massive stars have been dying and new stars are being born. there would be a lot of background radiation between novas and shell flashes.scifi video games don't need to be perfectly realistic though. i'd rather the pretty scenery of nebulae over the star belt look (like what we see in our solar system).a side note, i'm still curious whether or not ccp is ever going to iterate on that bright star event they had a while back. they made it out to be something important at the time."
"personally i'd preferr a basic black starfield with the extremely occassional/subtle nebulas. and the removal of the giant road-flares-in-space serving as system primaries... to be replaced with actual stars.eye (strain) online."
"there's a butteload of stuff i'd like to see them do to improve the realism of this game w/ regard to the game world. i'd actually prefer to see these changes take priority over the majority of gameplay issues and definitely over other forms of new content once ccp finish incarna.some things that would be nice:- replacement of \"skyboxes\" with proper view of the rest of space (ie, stars actually represent and are in the correct positions to represent other solar systems, rather than being part of an arbitrary wallpaper)- replacement of \"asteroid belts\" with actual, continuous asteroid belts rather than a grid in space with a few rocks- realistic planets and planet locations (make planets' \"statistcs\" match the planets' appearances, make sure planets of various types occur in plausible positions in a solar system)basically, a gameworld more like the one being developed for infinity would be a lot more fun to play in than the current one. for reference, here's a video of what i'm talking about:"
"i think the calendar is a great tool, but unfortunately is limited to personal/corp/alliancecalender events should have a \"viewable\" by standings option much like the fleet advert in fleet finder"
"being able to add color, for instance, blue's will be blue... greens will be green, people shooting you = red people jamming you.. maybe purple? people repping you green. etc etc... drone's on you from a person - gold?more options for bracket's. also different bracket size's (very hard to tell sometimes based upon the bracket for ship types)frig. = circle \\\\ cruiser - square \\\\ bc - triangle \\\\ bs - oval \\\\ capital - diamond \\\\ sc - hectadectagon \\\\ titan - star"
"i did not know that. were you able to learn anything there?"
"congratulations upon entirely missing the point. the question under consideration was whether people act the same way in real life as they do in the game. i submit that at least some of them do and used examples to illustrate.if a csm member wants to drink themselves silly and act like a clown every day of their life, i could care less. therell be at least one person in the room that thinks theyre funny. if they want to, as you suggest, cheat on their wife, let them. maybe the wife will catch them and get a nice settlement out of it as well as get rid of the loser.how did you work any of that into the possibility of an impeachment? i know you were trying to be absurd, but you could have put more effort into it. come on.-windjammer"
"good, duck. you never disappoint and you never understand.-windjammer"
"babelfish not working for you again, eh? too bad. gotten a response from tentonhammer yet?edit: not that your sperging over the fact that someone was ~gasp!~ drinking while on vacation isn't amusing in and of itself. i'm just trying to predict what your next angry letter campaign will be about."
"let me quote this again as you seem to forget what you said the moment you're done spraying the contents of your digestive tract over these forums. ignoring the fact that none of the current csm were elected until the end of fanfest. and the fact that you probably didn't vote for him so he's not *your* representative. and the fact that ccp advertises \"drinking with devs\" as one of the draws of fanfest.do you honestly believe that internet spaceship politicians should lead puritanical personal lives? because thats a laughable stance to take for real life politicians who have real life consequences for their actions. perhaps we should mandate that the next csm may only consume tea and biscuits when they socialise with developers."
"it's nice to see that windy's obsession with the nc and goons has finally driven him to complete insanity."
"let me post this again as youve neglected to read and comprehend. youre attributing a position to me that i do not advocate. ill underline the pertinent part for your ease in reading. enjoy.let me know if you require further clarification or simpler words. heres a little hint; it doesnt really matter if the person is a member of the csm, running for the csm or just someone having nothing to do with the csm.-windjammer"
"does it bother you?-windjammer"
"so why are you posting about it in a csm thread in the csm forum of the popular internet spaceship game eve online?"
"because someone alleged that people act one way in the game and another way in real life. this allegation was made to support the idea that people who act like griefers, scum.whatever, inside eve are in fact really nice upstanding people outside of eve. i responded to the allegation with the post youve been determined to see as an attack when in fact i was merely pointing out that sometimes what you see in game is what you see in real life as far as behaviour.believe me, when i attack, if i attack, youll know it. and, no, that isnt a threat.-windjammer"
"so what part of consenting adults taking part in leisure activities enjoyed by millions of other consenting adults across the world makes these people scum?"
"the amount of members per systems is not exactly the matter here. if a 70 members corp where able to defend and hold just one system against a bigger alliance, then things would be cool (i guess). but the fact is absolute numbers will pretty much wins over anything.the problem is, no matter how much effort people would want to put into it, maintaining anything in 0.0 requires large alliances and blobs. its simple as that.we are not saying rewards should be as plentiful as big alliances have. camius idea is really good. maybe that king of 'covert and cheap' structure he is sugesting to suport a small corp / alliance could have a lot of limitations on its own, like only be able to be anchored on 0.0 to -0.2 (crap null sec, as they say), limited or not possible to moon mine, etc.i think that giving smaller alliances a way to have some tiny influence in sov space would be good for everyone. more conflict, more guerrilha style wars, and more pew pew and fun for everyone."
"so as i see it there are really 3 seperate issues here.firstly the perception that small fleets never happen, which i'm not convinced is true.secondly the idea that small entities should be able to hold space, which i'm completely in favour of. however what i don't agree with is that a small entity should be able to hold said space against a far larger one that wants to take it from them. you can either find space that nobody else wants or *gasp* use diplomacy. this is why i support the spirit of the anomaly changes if not the execution. there needs to be less desirable space that is still worth more than empire so that the first of those options actually becomes a practicality.thirdly theres this notion that a small entity should be able to affect sov of a larger one with small roaming gangs. this is often presented in the same context as the second idea but they're mutually incompatible. i often hear people say that timers aren't fair because they allow a large defense fleet to form. well duh. if you could do significant damage to a large alliance's sov with a 30 man fleet, that same large alliance could do the same to 30 small alliances. this is why timers exist, to give people a chance to defend things. having permenant damage which can be done by small groups in less time than it takes a defensive fleet to form just ****s small alliances. you can't have both 2 and 3."
"not really. what you're asking is to be able to have your cake and eat it too. you don't want to put in the effort of cutting a deal or making an alliance with entities that areable to hold sov and would prefer to fly around in small groups to harass those people. fair enough but the tradeoff is that you don't get to do any real damage to their infrastructure. the influence you have is related directly to the time you actually spend in their systems hunting their pilots."
"they do happen as they are fun but there is little reason for them and they often surve no great purpose towards larger wars. they are also not very common and are at risk of being blobed by a large more mobile force. small fleets should be common and able to work towards sov objective or achieve some effect vs another alliance. not saying they shoudl take space because that would be dumb.no issue here. bigger group gets more and better space. it would be nice if it was easier to hold and defend a small amount of sov. from the larger sov holding forces. the current structure of 0.0 rewards mega alliances rather than smaller entities with smaller pacts of non agression. the result is super blobs and mega alliances as they can not be defended against. a small alliance wanting only 2-3 systems with 100 or so pilots can not defend them selves from the larger alliances. the larger alliance does not need the system but blobing them is easy. as a result the little alliance join big alliances and you get the current static 0.0 with large alliance not really doing much of anything waiting for the next huge fight.timers are great and well thought out for a number of reasons, that said taking a lfeet and mauaraunding through another alliances space on the warpath should have some effect, especially if uncontested. something to encouragean ad hoc fleet right then to defend from 30 battle cruisers."
"i don't think there was any plan to \"nerf the nc\". the stated goal from ccp in the blog was to add disparities in the sovereignty value of different systems. i think they've done a fine job with it, too. the problems the nc will face with this change are a function of their size. it will simply be harder for the nc to harmoniously support the same number of high-end pilots.goonswarm and test are doing fine, but test isn't really living in the \"north\" any more. fountain is suddenly a nice place to live, eh? the rest of the nc is undoubtedly feeling the change here, however.wi holds sov in 38 systems, most of which are in cloud ring, along with fa and stlr. 93% of the systems in cloud ring will no longer spawn any high-end site, no matter how much you upgrade them. in fact, 22 of the 38 systems (57%) of the systems wi holds (across all regions) won't spawn a single sanctum or haven ever again. for the \"end game\" wi ratter who earns his isk primarily by ratting sanctums or havens in a carrier, the only sensible option is to move to branch. 2800+ pilots. 2 high-end systems. do the math.if wi really is \"sitting pretty happy\", then they are all pants-on-head re****ed."
"it isnt libel if its true and it isnt a campaign against tentonhammer unless mits is tentonhammer. such a good quack! whos a good duck? good duck. heres a little snack for you.write to support@tentonhammer.com and give them your honest opinion regarding mits article.-windjammer"
"same old trolling as always. here's a hint, you'd be less glaringly awful if you weren't simply reduced to lying with every post and could actually do something like say \"finn is wrong, because of x, y and z\" instead of \"lol, finn doesn't understand!\" congratulations, now that you understand what libel is, you should realize that libeling tth and claiming that they're published \"lies\", which you redefine as \"lies of omission\" is somewhat less than honest. here, let's conduct another quick experiment in whether you are lying and trolling, or being honest: point out all the \"lies\" that tth printed. quote these \"lies\", verbatim. or, naturally, prove that you are the one who is lying and trolling (horribly). you're not particularly good at lying.stick to trying to organize angry letter campaigns. you're a bit less horrible at that."
"omitting even the most trivial mention of what ccp did instead of making the csm an investigative watchdog and thereby giving the impression ccp abandoned the watchdog project entirely, leaving the future open to further corrupt behavior on the part of ccp staff. thats not what ccp did. ccp replaced the idea of a csm watchdog group with a much more powerful internal investigation section of their organization. thus the lie of omission.write to support@tentonhammer.com let them hear your voice. give them nothing more or less than your honest opinion regarding mits article.-windjammer"
"did you just give an example of what the csm could do with the situation while wondering what i could expect them to do?so is that really clever on your part (for thinking the csm might ask ccp face-to-face why this happened, given the fact they are the only group that gets to talk to ccp face-to-face on a regular basis) or not (for not realizing people might expect them to ask ccp face-to-face why this happened, given the fact they are the only group that gets to talk to ccp face-to-face on a regular basis)?"
"not to get too far off the point, but your initial complaint was that there wasn't some useless post impotently raging about the issue."
"what do you mean? the number of people from these alliances that will be requested to answer your q&a?do you (csm) intend to post the q&a in this forum?"
"bump"
"supported"
"as some one with the majority of the last decade spent in qa at several games companies (vivendi, activision, 3do, gearbox, etc) i'd bet my eve account that it's managment related more then tester related.also, i'd happily volunteer to move to either atlanta or iceland for a job! :dsupported."
"^this. i think ccp forgets that thier market is niche. makes more sense to focus on subscriber retention than addition. moreso, the simple fact is that the concepts behind eve are so unique, so spectacular, so immersive that if ccp only focused on making each element of the game as good as it could be, the new subs will pile on and stay playing. great game is great. if you build it, they will come."
"suicide ganking is nicely balanced. most part time *******s have been driven out of business, and ganking is no longer nearly as profitable as it once was. prices are high now for the boat itself- @55 m isk when it is all said and done for 1 suicide bs. although you guys are going to absolutely scream when the new methods available for gankers become more common. incursion brought a windfall opportunity for gankers and no sorry, i won't discuss what it is. it will be common knowledge in a matter of weeks."
"first, that is a really strange word for the filter to block.second, youre 55 mil in the hole after insurance payout? because im seeing a lot of ganking going on and they dont seem to be going broke. fifty five mil isnt really that much, anyway. unless youre just ganking everything in sight whether youve scanned it for valuables or not.third, i thought those methods were already common knowledge. are they the same ones that were being discussed even before the first incursions patch was released? i think ccp even blocked one before it could be used much.-windjammer"
"realism doesn't have to be taken to an extreme, only given a basic representation.manufacturers wouldn't lose that many sales, at least not enough to cause major upheaval in the economy. since most gankers only get about one or 2 shots off on a gank target, chances are, the target wouldn't have time to target another ship before his ship was destroyed or concord arrived to arrest the ganker. ganks either work or they don't, usually scoring a kill with the alpha.police normally try to arrest at all costs and only shoot the shooter if it's required to save a life. as pods survive the ship kill, lethal force isn't required. however, let's just change things then and say that if a capsuleer gets podded in a gank, the gankers get destroyed instead of arrested and then they have nothing.well, a way to balance out the rig issue then would be to also add a fine equal to 50% of the total cost of the modules on board. therefore, the more expensive the modules, the greater the fine.see, since they're only brainstorming ideas, you can also brainstorm more to fix the problems."
"1. what u consider \"extreme\" is actually reality for some ppl. that's why some minorities don't like the police because of malcanis's example. so fyi, reality isn't perfect and it's certainly not all sunshine and rainbows. that's what wow is for. it's just like how u consider that manufacturers wouldn't lose enough sales to make a difference yet if so few of those buyers r into suicide ganking, then why would suicide ganking be such a huge problem in the first place? it's not. u're taking reality to an \"extreme\" here as well, only u're exaggerating the prevalence of suicide ganking and at the same time, u're contradicting it with your own figures.2. 'cause the exploiter would never target another ship in advance before the fight starts? either way, he gets out of a lossmail, bonus killmail or not. i'm surprised u didn't even consider something that simple 'cause neglecting simple counters like this one isn't gonna make it a better proposal, u know. 1. never heard any stories about anyone getting suicide podded but if that were the case, then they wouldn't be losing much since they'll be using a smaller ship to do so.2. which defeats the purpose of your incentive to use expensive mods, which no longer makes it a compromise but a pure nerf/exploit.3. this isn't a brainstorming session--this is the assembly hall. if u can't form up a decent proposal from the start, then brainstorm it away in features & ideas."
"what crawled up your ass and died anna?! you're paranoid and obnoxious, you know that? at least i'm trying to come up with something, what are you doing other than just being a negative ass and a rude negative ass at that.instead of just shooting down other people's ideas, why don't you try and come up with one that will work for everyone instead of just one that will make high sec even more safe for cb's....and btw, you take away insurance only and you'll do more damage to the economy than my idea, since no insurance means no ship replacement and that's only if they keep doing it. if it drives sg down even by half, the ramifications to ship builders would be far greater since there won't be ships lost to gankers or gank victims, to say nothing of the down slide in new module purchases caused by ganks. ccp ain't gonna go for that.my ideas may be flawed, but at least i'm trying to think and not just being obstinate.oh, and i can roll my eyes too."
"elfa,there is really no call for you to be abusive. anna is giving good reasons your idea will not work.another reason your idea(s) have little probability of acceptance by ccp is that they would have to be tied to the active market to be effective. if this could be easily done, ccp would have the current insurance tied to the market. to see that this isnt happening, you need only compare the insurance return for a t1 ship and its t2 variant to see that the insurance evaluation is not reflecting the price the ships are selling for on market. or if you want to go a little deeper, you could compare the prices on various t1 ships with the insurance payout for their loss.its much more effective and, within the confines of eves world, realistic to simply eliminate insurance payout to those whom concord destroys due to their criminal acts. its also much simpler for ccp to implement this and therefore more likely to be something that is implemented. it has a greater return on the time invested in making the change than your idea.-windjammer"
"my .02, and i'm sure you'll all flame me to no end.i'm all for suicide ganking for both fun and profit. there will always be tards who carry lots of isk value in undertanked indies. they do indeed deserve to die. at the same time there should be more calculation, work, and risk for gankers who do it for income.insurance should only be given to pve losses and only in lv 1 missions for total noobs, everyone else should have the sense to guage the risks they take and react accordingly. in order to balance this you should be able to evade and tank concorde at least temporarily. as in real life you can kill police and you can try to run. it is usually futile in the end. i would say if you can tank and evade them long enough to get to low-sec, then you can effectively 'pull it off'"
"removing insurance for t1 ships for pvp heavily disadvantages new players learning the trade. it's hard enough already for new guys to break into pvp without massively increasing their costs."
"agreed.supported."
"it really is time to get angry. csm just ignored hybrids in their first meeting, how many times do they have to ignore it before we see a angry response? want to just hope it all happens to change by some magic wave of the wand? the time to get angry is now! its time to make some noise. we have 2 members in csm who can see the issue here, the rest never played gallente, becuse they are too busy in their tengu. how often do you see anything but the tengu??? proteus cant even do as a drone boat and hybrids need a workout.maybe we should set a date some time in the future and do a happening, like a mass petition to ccp. i doubt they actually read the forums."
"it's exactly my problem. i never had a warning window when i've made my gall char that if i wanted to have fun i have to cross-train.great, can i haz my sp back and put it in to another toon/race? -i'll pay, i'm ok take 100 on my credit card ccp no problem for that, but at least i'll start having some fun and will always cross train of course but wait: kanid ships are awesome and angel ones are omgftompwnmobiles. pliz ccp you can do it, it's just some clicks, nothing like if you should make your brains work."
"yes."
"a megathron works fine in a fleet with 20 guys, specially in empire / low sec.now who the freaking hell fits an armor repairer on a passive tanked mega with neutron blasters in a rr bs gang?as far as i know, i have a capacitor booster fitted on my megathron, so the logistics isn't needed to let me have cap.my mega have both a warp disruptor ii and a webber fitted to.so what are you talking about?"
"yes, that's the problem i have with your comments. you don't seem to understand that nothing ever says blaster ships must play in 20 men fleets.has it's never said that blaster bs's must be the ones you will want to replace by canes if you want to solo small gang pvp. oc if your definition of small gang pvp considers that more than 1 is \"some\" and \"gang\" is more than 1 or 2.maybe instead of insulting other players at each of your posts because they obviously don't play the same game than you, you can enlighten them with your enormous fitting knowledge and solo/fleet combat tactics.explain them why and the good reasons to never use blaster bs's in 2 or 3 men gang, why they are dumb enough to use local rep etc etc."
"did i say that the blaster mega only works in a 20 man gang?i said it's working fine in a 20 man gang because i know it since i'm usually in a 20 man gang my self where others are using a blaster mega to. and it's no insults by saying where the megathron really works good.when it comes to 0.0 space warfare, then i to some point agree that the mega doesn't work very well. but like i said, it's working very well in gangs from 5 players and up to around 50 players in empire / low sec.and i'm using the mega because it's working very well for what kind of pvp i do. but i also have an abaddon i'm gonna start using soon, so you will most likely hear from me after i have used it for a while on how it is."
"merci beaucoupvielen dankarigato gozaimasu"
"right, stupid me, rockets are much more in need of an overhaul since missiles also suck.....wait...what?"
"get out !!"
"blue eyed optimist!didnt see them vote no to hybrids and yes to rockets?"
"oh i don't what they hell they were thinking with this. 50 limit that's just dumb.supported"
"(hint: if you support the idea of this thread, then please tick the \"support this topic\" check box.)also, i have the exact same problem."
"if the text is in any format readable by a person (ie, normal text), a bot (decently made) will also be able to \"read\" it.so, all this does is makes the process take slightly longer."
"currently:1. log in character2. start bot program3. profitnow:1. log in character2. scan for belts3. wait for scan results in captcha4. pick the right belt from the list, otherwise your mining ship will die5. make bookmarks (share bookmarks?, don't see the point of that for it creates even more work)6. continue with 2remember this has to be done every time after a belt has been fully mined. the more hassle for them the better.if you make the belts a bit smaller they even need to do this more often a day.using the scanner is no problem i agree, reading the captcha results from the scanner is."
"most captchas have been proveably broken and the ones that haven't are usually so obnoxious that even a human needs to cycle through a bunch of them before finding one that they can decipher. they work for blog comments because for every website with one there are hundreds without so the time required to break the captcha is outweighed by the time it would take to just find another site to fill with adverts for free shoes and viagra. in the internet spaceship game eve online there is no \"other website\" so solving the captcha becomes worthwhile again.on top of that website captchas can choose random letters or words to obfuscate. i'm assuming your list of belts would have to provide some meaningful information about the belt limiting the combinations to a smaller subset. matching a captcha image against a small subset of words is a much simpler problem.really all a captcha system would do is infuriate human players."
"in this proposal i am refering to an image captcha not a text based one, in which players have to type. looking at pictures to determine if it's a belt or not should be doable; also 100+ examples can be made by taking in game pictures. this is of course by no means a final solution to botting but it makes it more difficult, not as much for real miners."
"you're still only inconveniencing the people who make bots, not the people who use them. image captchas like kittenauth only work because each website can provide their own images making each one different and removing them from the pool of low hanging fruit. with eve there is only one system to crack so once one person has figured it out every bot can use it. 100 asteroid images just means the bot has to ship with knowledge of all 100, which won't take long. even if they're generated on the fly for each belt the chances of them being completely indestinguishable from the other entries on the list is pretty slim."
"it's a real simple idea. and long-term it would **** off the real human miner's, and the bot miner's would simply implement it into their base code and never worry about it again."
"one of the annoying things i don't get with missions is that the main market based missions are \"material for war\" storyline missions.yet there are plenty of items in the game that seem to collect in my container named \"useless items.\" for instance elite drone ai. why not introduce missions that require such items in order to accept the mission. then players will have a reason to salvage the items to save and use or to put them up for sale on the market so other players can accept those missions. an example would be a mission that required ten elite drone ai's in order to accept it. the mission itself would have isk/lp reward after the player goes out and kills whatever it is that they need to kill. if the player doesn't have the ai's they can buy them on the market from another player or reject the mission. since you can only reject a mission once every four hours it would increase the value of the ai's thus creating another revenue stream in the game. thoughts?"
"the drone ais are used for scamming and nothing else - learn2play, not supported !"
"i agree bumblefck... however they don't have to be."
"i like it... they can even be written in as having to flatter the agent with some roses and wine to get a better mission :)"
"actually the elite drone ai chips where required for the cx-2 offer pre lp store days(80+100k lp as far as my memory goes) and where 2-3m per piece.they are still required to build integrated/argumentet drones, however the bpcs of them are far to rare so they and other materials required for this are basically worthless."
"i take it you've never done the low-end cosmos missions.they're exactly like that. fun fact? the drops for the missions are so utterly horrible some folks just buy the items off the contracts market, despite the fact that you could easily just:a) circle a container in a deadspace pocket full of re-spawning pirate rats, collecting two tags every 20 minutes. you only need 6 tags to complete the mission for quarter of a million isk reward!b) kill random frigate rats at the belts, collecting a dozen rat tags to turn in for another mission, with another quarter of a million isk reward.elite drone ai's, afaik only drop off certain rogue drone bs's in certain missions (i only know of 2 missions that have 'em). and, as was stated above, they're a material of a bpc that's so rare it's more of a joke item. i personally have like 130 of the damn things, and probably collect 5 a week. but could you imagine getting back to back \"hey capsuleer, go collect 10 of these items, and turn it for for a 250k isk reward!\"i've seen the drone ai's currently on contracts for roughly a mil each.besides... it sounds awfully wow like. go collect ten torn wolf pelts. at least the materials for war prep missions can be mined by anyone in the game from standard 'roids.although, to be fair, it could work as an interesting alternative to the data center tag collection type-deal. bring me 50 stranded pilots and i'll give you a one-time bpc."
"i like how you are thinking eladaris. i had forgotten about the cosmos missions.what i am proposing is like the cosmos but in normal game play mission mechanics. these would be new missions that perhaps are a little more on the rare side. it doesnt have to be elite drone ais, it can be the freedom fighters, freed slaves, wine, ect. if you want the mission and you don't have the item then you have the opportunity to purchase the item on the market or decline the mission and move on to the next one."
"i also have an issue with the distance between cobalt edge and tenal. that jump is absurd. if gates can cover that distance what dont they just build gates between the far reaches of every system in 0.0?i have a feeling the original intention might have been to open jove space in that middle area, making it npc 0.0 but plans probably changed. looking at the location of jove and drone regions and that huge jump between ce and tenal, seems easy to assume. but who knows what will come of it all now."
"thats actually a very good idea."
"missions are to feed invention with minerals and acquire salvage for rigs .. hoarding isk holds no meaning to me, i have what i need and liquidity to acquire what i want any more is superfluous.let me guess, your primitive brain recognized the surname as japanese and suddenly it is an anime name?did you even bother to look it up before giving your mouth permission to open?look up the first name while you are at it .. at least my names don't sound like something out of wow/lotro dust bin."
"the issue is obviously much more complicated than this but by reducing the income of individual players while keeping alliance income static you effectively force more people into large alliances who can provide reimbursement programs as they become less able to replace their ships independantly."
"which is why it is generally recommended that what little data ccp shares be examined in detail.to me that reads like everything is going to be tweaked/updated to accommodate the increased population.they could have left it alone and done one staggeringly massive null update, but those tend to go down even worse with the null crowd and besides, they are now working with the paradigm \"many smaller updates rather than a few whoppers\" which in my opinion is much better."
"there's nothing in the blog about isk inflation...and the blog does list the reasons for the change and the expected outcomes."
"this is my main point!!!! and must be addressed before giving neutral reppers an aggression timer!!!!"
"i think it would be great. out in low sec, neutral logi isn't an issue, it's openly hostile logi jumping in and out every 30s and there isn't a damn thing you can do about it unless you split your fleet in half to camp both sides of a gate. and that just encourages even more blobbing. any remote effect, positive or negative, should result in a 1 minute aggro timer preventing docking and jumping by stargate. the current mechanics on wh's and jump drives are fine i think.a related issue is people docking ships inside orca's and carriers while engaged. it goes back to that risk free pvp thing. since the orca/carrier never shoots anything, it can just hump the station and instantly dock. a 1 minute aggro timer should be applied to it in addition to any timers the docking ship has."
"bump"
"ok... i am a noob when it comes to this... how do i join the test server?"
"yeah. cast me as a teetotaling prude. thatll play.what makes you think i think theyre scum? if a guy plays scum in the game, theres a chance hes scum in real life. if he likes to grief in the game, theres a fair chance he likes to grief in real life. if a guy comes off as a drunken clown in the game, theres better than a fair chance hes a drunken clown in real life situations. if hes a whiner in the game, theres a real good chance hes a whiner in real life.this sequence can be extended ad finem, but im pretty sure you can see the trend.-windjammer"
"no. no. this is not how the internet and videogames work at all, do not do this."
"so people who were playing dungeons and dragons really were potential murderous satanists. learn something new every day."
"do not do what?"
"i believe this is a sighting of the all too common reductio ad ridiculum."
"erasure of a double post"
"actually, it's proof of the fact that you have no idea what a logical fallacy is. don't worry, as i'm not a troll, i can actually point out your errors. also as i'm not a troll, i can actually point out your own words and why they're wrong. food for thought. anyways, the appeal to ridicule attempts to substitute mockery for an actual argument. this, however, is not what actually happened. what i did was used an argument of analogy to point out that the same hysteria you're trying to use in your personal grudge against certain csm members is based on the the same logical fallacies that the loons who demonized dungeons and dragons used. namely, that \"if a guy plays scum in the game, theres a chance hes scum in real life.\" or as the anti dungeons and dragons cruasaders put it, \"people who were playing dungeons and dragons really were potential murderous satanists.\"your argument about how we have to mistrust people who play as badguys in an internet spaceship game because they might just be a badguy in real life? well, that uses the same logical fallacy as the assumption that someone who plays an evil mage in d&d might just be a satanist. it is, essentially, a variation on the quoting out of context fallacy, where you attempt to strip away the fact that someone is playing a character in an mmo, and using that character to form conclusions about the person. much like someone accusing the actor who plays macbeth of murder. it is also an (actual) example of circular reasoning whereby your conclusion, that people's actions in game may tell us something about who they are out of game, is used as your premise, which is that people's actions in game can predict how they may act out of game. it is also an example of ****hoc ergo proper hoc, where you've attempted to create a fallacious causal or predictive relationship between behavior in-game and behavior out of game simply because they both occur in the same person.it's also an example of the fallacy of bifurcationwhereby someone who is a \"badguy\" in game may just be a \"badguy\" in real life, rather than there being an entire continum of behaviors and views about those behaviors, both in-game and out and even if they were all agreed upon, someone being \"scum\" in game would not mean that they had to either be \"scum\" or \"virtuous\" out of game, but that the whole range of human behavior could be possible until we knew something about them as a person and not just as a gamer.it is also an example of confirmation bias, whereby those who are \"badguys\" in eve and also are \"badguys\" out of eve go to prove your claims, but all those who who merrily grief in game and are good people in real life are conveniently ignored. and that's just a few. there is, literally, nothing any more cogent or coherent about claiming that people's actions in an mmo game like eve are predictive of their personal lives than about claiming that someone who plays a doctor on television can really perform surgery. none of that, of course, gets at the utter hilarity of your rage over the fact that an adult, on vacation, while his vacation was taking place prior to his even officially being placed on the important-internet-spaceship-focus-group, drank."
"by using a weak analogy, aka faulty analogy, aka questionable analogy, zero introduces mockery into his statement and that is reductio ad ridiculum (reduction to the absurd), an appeal to mockery.the attempt on zeros part to discredit my analogies hinges upon him following the sequence i laid out to his absurd conclusion. additionally, he characterizes my statements of probability as statements of certainty. i say, if he likes to grief in the game, theres a fair chance he likes to grief in real life. zero rewrites this to, if he likes to grief in game, he must grief in real life. then zero argues against his rewrite. this is the essence of the logical fallacy known as the straw man argument. its a shabby way to lie, but zero has convinced himself that it deceives readers. in itself, a measure of his intellect as well as a measure of his inability to see just how many are his intellectual superiors. weve all run into the guys who love to grief in game and weve seen how a fair number of them love to grief in real life. zero would extend this simple observation to the absurdity of believing those who play d and d must therefore be satanists. since this is obviously untrue, zero then circles back around to say that if the one is untrue, the other is untrue. in other words, zero would have you believe that, for instance, a guy who loves griefing in eve is not someone who loves griefing in real life, ever.this is why it is unwise to argue philosophy with someone like zero. their argument is obviously absurd, they stubbornly refuse to admit it, argue for the sheer sake of arguing, attempt to use terms they do not understand and then argue about the interpretation of those terms when challenged by people who do understand them.zero depends upon bulk without quality. both in his writing and in his game play. its blob writing and while the blob tactic works in eve combat, it utterly fails in writing.or in logic.-windjammer"
"lying and trolling again windy? why, what are the odds? it's almost like you're physically incapable of actually responding to facts and have to lie and troll about them. again, you demonstrate that you have absolutely no idea what logical fallacies are. you obviously have no clue, at all, what the fallacy of false analogy is. here's a hint, troll: there are two situations where people who play a role in a game specifically designed for that purpose are having their in-game character used to cast aspersions about their out-of-game behavior.no false analogy, you're just lying. as usual. as you are a liar and a troll, that never actually happened. you've invented that quote, because you are a liar and are trolling. if you contend otherwise, cite the post and quote where i said that. but we all know you're lying, anyways. which is why you won't provide any such quote. contrary to your pathological lying, what i actually said was \"we have to mistrust people who play as badguys in an internet spaceship game because they might just be a badguy in real life\".people who aren't lying trolls will note the \"might be\" in what i said. ah, so you have no idea what a strawman fallacy is, or you do and you're lying, again. your argument really was that people who are \"scum\" in game might just be \"scum\" in real life because of how they play the game. lying and trolling again windy?what did i actually say, liar?\"the same logical fallacy as the assumption that someone who plays an evil mage in d&d might just be a satanist. \"\"people who were playing dungeons and dragons really were potential murderous satanists.\"people who are not liars will note the use of \"potential\" and \"might\" in my quotes and \"must therefore\" in your lying bit of trolling. no, i'd point out that you are a pathological liar and a troll, and you lie about things that are right above your post when anybody can see you're lying. what i actuallys aid was:\"someone being \"scum\" in game would not mean that they had to either be \"scum\" or \"virtuous\" out of game, but that the whole range of human behavior could be possible until we knew something about them as a person and not just as a gamer.\"folks who are not liars will notice that the \"not ever\" is a lie you're using, not what i actually said. so aside from being unable to offer a single logical rebuttal to the facts that show your arugment is awful, all you can do is lie with pretty much every single statement you make."
"hypocrisy, thy name is zero as well as the sum total of his success.-windjammer"
"this is windy's standard lie when proven wrong on the facts, he has to troll about how i don't 'understand' something rather than proving that i'm wrong. meanwhile, how many separate lies and errors did i just prove he was engaged in? hell, something like two or three faked quotes alone plus a lie about his own claims coupled with a faked quote in order to allege that his own words are a \"strawman\" of his own words. as always, since windy only trolls and only lies in his responses to me, he can't show how i was wrong about anything. he can't point out any errors in my actual logic. he can't provide quotes for the things he said i did, but which contradict what my actual words were. he can only lie. unsurprising."
"my line of thought is about considering the small independent entities the most important source of small fleet warfare. in my opinion, from a \"save the small independent entities\" standpoint, npc 0.0 is very good, because a small group of motivated people can actually survive there against a much larger opponent. survive, i said, not win, while keeping the endeavour convenient (by an economical or fun factor standpoint). and that's pretty much the point. in npc 0.0, there are different layers of \"effective sovereignty\". big entities will get the best systems, even some good moons; small entities will farm and trade, you can move in when you want and leave without lose anything. npc nullsec is far more dynamical than the average conquerable space, because there are many small facilitations and warranties that are crucial for small independent entities.why crucial? because everyone can refit their ship, produce things, set clones, repair and trade.wouldn't it be good to have a similar but more restrictive and effort requiring mechanism in conquerable space?to get basic facilities, you can set up a pos in hostile conquerable space, but you can't actually defend it with a small fleet. that's the point, again. there are no mechanics that make it possible to a small independent entity to keep their logistics going on, let them replace their ships, refit, refine, produce in a situation of strategical disadvantage. the problem for small independent entities is not that they can't harm anyone, it's just that they lack the tools to survive.in other words, you should not need poses and outposts to survive in nullsec. they should be a plus, something that the big boys will want. but small independent entities conducting a guerrilla style gameplay should be able to run their logistics/storage/production anyway.the key thing we need to allow this gameplay in conquerable space, are facilities that have the following characteristics:hard to find easy to destroy cheap to replace.no rf timers, or at least not known by the powerful attacker"
"fun is a pretty good reason in of itself. and i would suggest that when you take a small force to attack a large, organised entity on their home turf that a larger, more mobile force is a reasonable thing to expect.why should this smaller entity have a magical ability to defend itself against a larger one? where do you draw the line between small entity who gets game mechanics to defend their space and large one who doesn't? there are reasons to remove an alliance from its space that have nothing to do with needing the resources. some of these come down to limitations in the region system itself (markets etc.). some of them are because its less secure when you have neutrals basing out of space right next door to you. if a small alliance sets up shop next to a large one and starts attacking it, why should the large one not wipe it out? if it sets up and starts diplomatic relations then it might do a lot better.again, its impossible to design objectives for small groups that can't be done much faster or many times in parallel by larger groups. if you can knock out system upgrades in a system in 10 minutes with a 30 man bc gang, a large alliance can knock out all the system upgrades of your 2-system alliance every hour of every day until you leave and do it all in their spare time.there are two types of gang that go roaming through alliance space, those who are looking for a fight and those who want cheap ganks, and in my experience most people who claim to want the former are lying. if you desperately wanted a fight you could start attacking the infrastructure as it is today but its a fight you'd probably lose. and therein lies the hidden subtext of this \"30 man bc fleets should be able to damage sov\" stance. people want to be able to do significant damage and get out before they provoke a response they can't beat 100% of the time."
"there are some points here that i would like to contest. first, you assume that a big force should always be able to eradicate a much smaller force. this is an assumption that cannot be motivated, and is generally false.in rl, you can fight a strategically superior enemy through guerrilla warfare. you can even have rest, training camps and logistical bases deeply into hostile territory. you can smuggle. if a gameplay like this were possible, eve would become richer. to be more clear, i don't think that small alliances should be able to hold sov against bigger forces: sovereignty and poses are for the big entities, with a lot of blues etc; we need some other things for the small entities.second, about this just a consideration: this does not mean that a large group should be able to eradicate all the structures of a smaller entity at once. in my opinion, a small force should be able to keep its logistics going on without even possibly fighting (but at a cost in terms of effort and money, that is \"replace what has been destroyed\").second, a big group splitting and killing many things in parallel is good. third, bigger groups need a lot of work to be put together. if you can attack a target only in a 10 minutes time window without notice, you won't be able to build a large group. example: if a reinforcement timer weren't visible to others than the structure owners, the attackers would not be able to organise unless they have spies. and the probability of having at least a spy gets higher the bigger is your side, so relatively small groups would be advanaged by this more than bigger ones. in short, there are tasks that are accomplished faster and better with a small number of people; these usually require either bluff or a good reaction time. of course, i'm not talking about pos/sov bashing."
"to: gigglz, hek marketcc: ten tron (ceo), bryan havoc (guild director), tomaso yo****ome (acting diplomat)you have a steam group named 'project nemesis.'you have five members in this group, and profess an interest in eve online.there, you declare affiliation and control of the corporation project nemesis. [p-nem], estd. december 11, 2010, as well as ownership of the name and brand 'project nemesis.' your fraudulent and plagaristic actions and misrepresentations are damaging to the long-standing, respected, and valuable project nemesis [prons] franchise.citing these items, we demand that you cease and desist in your flagrant plagarization of the good name of project nemesis [prons], estd. august 24, 2007. you are hereby required to comply with the following items:1. you will permanently dissolve your flagrantly plagaristic corporation, project nemesis. [p-nem], effective immediately. any and all outstanding corporate assets are to be rendered to the leadership of project nemesis [prons].2. you will permanently rename or dissolve your steam community group 'project nemesis.' by any means necessary, including forcibly expunging all members and permanently deleting the group, effective within two weeks (14 days).3. you will issue a formal and public apology for the specific aforementioned infractions in the jita park area of the eve online forums, effective within two weeks (14 days).failure to comply with the above items will incur additional fines and penalties to be specified. penalties may meet or exceed 500 million isk per week, and failure to comply with all terms and fees will result in various and continuous punitive action pursued against you and your current and past membership.--iam widdershinsattourney at war=========================i had to reread this twice just to make sure i was reading it correctly. by creating an alt corp with the same name i have made these guys so butt hurt they are going to threaten my alt character that logs on once a month. if i had known it was this easy i would have given up pirating long ago and just copied a whole bunch of corp names to see how many people i could make rage. i just felt like i had to share the hilarity with you guys. if you see any of these guys in your local make sure to laugh at them for me."
"i think you're on the wrong section of the forums. and you get some really lame hatemail.disappointed, 2/10gb2 c&p and post about some rifters you suicided"
"yea more than likely in the wrong section of the forums. if any mods come across this they can move it to a more appropriate location. either way funny as hell. here is some things other people said about the post: [identities protected for obvious reasons]*** oppenheimer > but it's a game nothing more ... and as everything still belongs the property of ccp ... they have nothing to demand*** dreger > they're roll playing.. counter sue them for 2x what they are demanding from you.*** oppenheimer > but make sure u give them 14days to comply*** dreger > and demand first born..*** bear > well that is a fantastic nameanyway if you other project nemesis guys are reading this (i know you are i sent you a link) make sure to reply and add more hate. oh and sandra river i know you are alt of iam widdershins. just come out and be a man and spread your hate openly."
"lol i love it ... demanding someone in a game to do something ... lol legal jargon = awesome ... such is life fellas, if you wanted the name (c) then they shouldhave reserved all names close to it so noone could do it ... and seeing as the name isn't copyrighted. i'd like to see it inforced without becoming harrassment in the game.if they have any legality to it, then they need to post the lawyers letter or patent notice advising that it is a trademarked name by them and that they have legal rights to the name ... otherwise ... tough kiddies."
"i hope you have a good lawyer hek, this is some serious internet spaceship buisness. my favorite part is \"your fraudulent and plagaristic actions and misrepresentations are damaging to the long-standing, respected, and valuable project nemesis [prons] franchise\". err who are these people?"
"paranoid schizophrenic drunk nerds?"
"your epic fail at the serious business of internet space ships.please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"having just started to use mining crystals i've discovered a small annoyance as a result of the way that stuff in the hold gets displayed.if ccp are looking at small works to do what about altering the hold characteristics of the hulk so that it has a dedicated crystal hold (like orcas have a dedicated ore hold and the pi ship that's name escapes me has a dedicated hold for command centres).say, take 500m3 out of the standard hold and add a 500m3 crystal hold. after all, the hulk is a dedicated mining ship.thoughts?"
"just as i said, there are absolutely no lies and you cannot point out any lies because, as usual, you are engaging in meta-lying and you're trolling.you are lying and trolling. mittani specifically mentions that ccp created the internal affairs department. you know this and are deliberately trying to lie to people, and we know that you're lying and attempting to troll because, literally, the sentence right before the one you cherrypicked says that the original watchdog concept of the csm was mooted by the ia department that exists today. i'll still quote the last bit of your trolling just for laughs:one might even say that the original csm watchdog concept was mooted by the development of the ia department. go figure."
"i don't think anyone has ever done more ___ kissing than you on these forums. yet you still can't call him \"mittens\"?does that make you feel unappreciated?"
"we really do need a better class of troll. you folks aren't even amusing."
"apparently i was mistaken or the article was edited. when i reread the article yesterday i could swear the part zero pointed out was not there. in any case, the article currently contains no outright lies or lies of omission that i can find today and i hereby retract my allegation that it does contain such things.do not write to support@tentonhammer.com to express your honest opinion of what you think of mits lies. mits is a veritable paragon of honesty. he even admits to being biased in the things hes writing about. talk about your full disclosure. you may, however, wish to write tentonhammer to express your opinion regarding his bias. after all, mits gave his opinion, shouldnt you?-windjammer"
"i thought youd like that. take what you can get, little duck, and focus on my retraction."
"yes, i caught you lying and trolling, good save. and check your babelfish settings, \"duck\" is not an insult in english.predictably though, you're still strangely obsessed with mittens. now you want tth to fire him because he publishes opinions in an opinion column."
"well then you shouldnt be insulted, should you.have i advocated mits be fired?i notice you're calling him mittens now. guess that other guys comments got to you.-windjammer"
"yes troll, that's what you've been advocating all along. now i believe your next move is to lie and claim that you're only suggesting that people write angry letters to tth telling them to \"do something\" about mittens. i notice that you are a liar and a troll, and i've been calling him \"mittens\" for quite some time. i also notice that you're a troll and you think that calling a person by their in-game name means something... at all."
"would you refer me to the post or posts i made advocating mits be fired? i seem to have misplaced it or them.dont you think you should capitalize the first letter of mittens? show a little respect?-windjammer"
"already pointed out, that's what you're advocating. this is similar to your earlier lie that you weren't really advocating that people make this about tth itself. now, of course, your lie is that you weren't saying that people should make it about the mittani. you can't keep keep your lies straight by this point. actually, as you are a liar and a troll, you are not only obsessed with someone out-of-game because of who they are in a video game and the video game's focus group, you were trying to rally people based on a lie (that you've now admitted was a lie) and claimed that you were \"mad as hell\". predictably, you're now lying and trolling and pretending that others are angry, while you were the one engaged in a campaign of libel and who wants to have someone fired for publishing opinions in an opinion column. but as usual, i'll provide you enough rope to hang yourself. assuming you're not lying and trolling, show us what specific action you'd demand tth to take in order to prohibit a writer include opinions in their opinion column, other than not letting them publish an opinion column. don't worry, as with the rest of your lies, we all know what your refusal to answer will mean."
"hmmm...you claim ive advocated mits be fired from tentonhammer, yet you ask what specific action i would demand of tentonhammer. additionally you still havent referred myself or anyone else to a post where i advocate mits be fired.whats wrong with this picture? anyone?write to support@tentonhammer and give them your honest opinion of the bias in mits article. its customer feedback and something theyll appreciate. resistance is not futile.-windjammer"
"thank you for, again, proving you are lying and trolling. have fun with your deranged obsession with someone over a video game."
"ok heres a csm comment; too bad ccp screwed the pooch on the forums-and nothing of value was lost. on a more serious note, i think that csm making a comment on a security issue while it is in progress of being resolved, over reaches the purpose and scope of what the csm is. i don't personally think the forum issue is anything more than a minor blip on the radar in the path of progress, and will eventually be resolved. or maybe not. i am a fan of the old forums anyway. d3"
"actually the only way i can see of doing it in an election where people choose to vote or not and have it distributed like it is in major countries world wide where you set it up with a number of seats based on the actual populations of areas. in the last economic snap shot they did it gave fairly sound numbers for areas. so for instance set up the seats as two for each empire space (so 8) then one for the country i.e. 0.0 as high and lo-sec make up 86% of the total population and 0.0 makes up only 11.26%typepopulation q3 2010 pop q4 2010 pop q3 % of total q4 % of total high sec 553502 611732 79.56% 79.61% low sec 48346 51342 6.95% 6.68% null sec 76999 86487 11.07% 11.26%wormhole 16846 18812 2.42% 2.45% with the latest csm actually mobilizing the 0.0 population we now have the minority speaking for the majority (or for them selves alone, this is yet to be seen, but the time dilation lag fix being the major point of their first release, the outlook is not good). it could be worse it could have been a lot of pure traders who never fly running the csm. my only real evidence i have seen so far of how ineffective this csm might be is every one who has said some thing against the new csm is attacked in the forums by members of goonswarm. so all i can say on that is please work hard for all of the eve community and dont turn the csm from something mildly useful into the pr exercise csm 1 was. so my proposal is to merely have seats, where the seat represents the population numbers and allow people running for the elections to attempt election only in one seat. thus allowing for a more representative approch for the csm to cover all areas of play."
"the only conflict i have seen started by this is the player base towards ccp. i have yet to see any blue standings fall apart over this. i have yet to see any conflict started going for a -1.0 system, that wasn't previously in conflict.i get what the few douche bags are saying, \"rawr rawr rawr, less carebearing, moar pew pew\". yes... but where does that money come from? ding ding ding! havens and sanctums! now typically you see most of the times battle crusiers on roams. bcs are cheap, so this pretty much indicates typical casual null players don't have all that much isk to play with anyways as you typically see the hardcore people in faction bss. that's fine and all, but wheres the economic drive? all that isk isn't being farmed in the billions per day by people, people are not sitting in null all day just to have a really big wallet. they want money for more pvp ships and plexs. not to sit around all day with their thumbs up their asses, no one does that. they stay in high if they don't want any conflict at all. now take american history for example. land of the free and opportunity, and all that. no one came to america to make less money, or to have less freedom then they had before. they went to america to have more. it's no different with eve, if people can't make loads of isk to buy ships, they'll stay in high sec and just make a few occasional roams to low or null sec or even war dec someone, or gank. there is only 11% of the population in null, there is nothing to entice them to the 60-70% of systems in null that will not make them any profit over l4s in high. it will not fund their ships to pvp, there will be no reason for people to want to come to null sec. and no people = no pvp. if null sec had easy money in short times, you would have more people, more ships(bigger ships at that too, think about l4s, people use faction ships and deadspace mods to get more isk, same applies ratting too). which just all means, more people to shoot at and higher chance of conflict since there will be a higher demand for certain areas. there is absolutely no logic in this because people fight over resources, not money. belts and moon goo all stayed the same, now just have less people to afford the products. does this anom change reduce the growth of supercarriers? nope cause people will still continue to make moon goo, which we all know makes t2 and the t2 market is still rather popular with the majority of eve players based in high sec. so those alliances get money which pays the miners who mined the ores, the alliances buys the ores/minerals then build the supercarriers without ever having anything to do with ratting."
"the ship is purely to fill a logistical niche that very few people have. that being, getting a bunch of warships into a cyno jammed system in order to cause chaos. it is already a very powerful tool, capable of putting extremly dangerous ships deep into hostile \"secured\" space.but it sucks at face to face engagements. the thing loses to its t1 counterpart. that said, why are you using a black ops as a direct fire weapon?!?the black ops is not supposed to be seen. it is supposed to move around ships that make people pee their pants when they see them. does ccp have to remove all combat bonuses to get you to see that? given my understanding of the ship's role, it is working as intended."
"um, there are more black ops battleships sold every month in jita than there are titans in eve. the qen quote is the number of active hulls being used at the time the snapshot was taken, therefore it doesn't account for ships sitting in hangars while the owner is flying something else, or in smas, etc.because you can't dock a titan, more or less every character who owns one will have been sat in it at the time of the snapshot, whereas many of the blackops owners will have been flying around in other hulls.now, i don't disagree that the blackops bss are pretty underpowered and could do with some attention, but i thought i'd correct this misinterpretation of the data."
"yes it's a dead horse, but i'll bump it anyway. yes, i am actually a bo pilot (bo v and all that).a lot of people want bos to be combat ships, but i simply want bos to fulfill their role under a realistic set of in-game circumstances. sure, they can fulfill their role in a limited fashion now, but only under ideal circumstance, which almost never present themselves. i won't get into individual race tweaks, though they could be a phase 2 of bo luv. in any case the class needs the following to become useful:non-negotiable to fulfill bo role: covert cloako i suppose the expectation now is the bo pilot is supposed to portal people in then sit there cloaked and wait to portal them out. wow, that's fun ccp! remember this is a game, and us foolish players actually want to enjoy it. about double the jump rangeo the current range is not tactically significant. either a larger fuel bay or less fuel consumption to portal shipso bringing along a blockade runner should not be mandatory for a highly specialized convert strike force. as it stand now all this means is someone has to drag an alt along, which is just plain tedious.would be nice: hps equal to t1 and force recon resistance bonuses t3 able to fit covert cyno (tangentially related)i don't think these changes will take a lot of recourses from a dev perspective, and i can't see there being much argument to these changes."
"i'll followup this last post just with the one suggestion;let black ops use covert cloak, or some new battleship version of it.to be frank, it seems a bit silly that a bo has all the electronics and capability to create a covert portal, but can't even form a covert cloak around itself. surely that would require less power/energy than creating a covert jump portal! we are, after all, talking about not only creating the portal, but cloaking the portal. i can't see how a portal would be easier to cloak than a battleship sized object seen as the object is just a 'solid shape' whereas a portal is a flux of energy the cloak has to adapt to or 'fight' with to maintain the cloak."
"i actually quite like my sin as it is, and wouldn't propose any major changes there. when the idea for t2 bs was first floated aeons ago however, i did hope sexy looking for a jump-drive capable blasterthron... though, on second thoughts, with blasters as they are these days - *lol*personally i see two possible routes: either make them worth the cost of acquiring in the first place i.e. beef up combat abilities e.t.c e.t.c or, accept them for what they are, but knock the build costs down signficantly (250m ish and i'd use it more often).either way, more jump range is also needed."
"i think everyone pretty broadly agrees with this, it's not a really controversial topic. however like 'commit to excellence' it's basically just an empty slogan; there's nothing to pass or upvote here. \"don't rush stuff\", \"be excellent\", blah blahthat's not a proposal. 'devote more resources and staff to team gridlock and team bff', or 'make bff a permanent part of every major patch release, forever', those are specific proposals that aren't empty. we all agree that there needs to be a massive resource push to iteration teams like bff, and will be focusing on what i call the 'ccp abandons features' narrative in the upcoming summit."
"so, \"don't relese feature untill it's working\" is not a proposal? oh well..."
"i can sadly agree with that completely. indeed, it is not a specific gameplay or resource allocation proposal. however, it is a proposal for a \"company policy\" shift.just like the \"tenure\" of doc. e.g. at the helm of the in-game economy division has resulted in changes that might have made the game's economy more of a \"free market\", the lack of accompanying game balance/design changes to compensate for that \"increased freedom\" with some form of negative feedback regulating mechanism ended up throwing a lot of things that made gameplay sense into disarray.the ccp leadership seems to have forgotten that eve is by initial design a niche game, so its appeal (and resulting subscriber growth line-like graph) other than the uniqueness of it for a long time has mostly been quality over quantity. or, if they haven't forgotten that, they let themselves be swayed by external factors which have nothing to do with the game of eve (i.e. pressure from some of the people who financed their expansion and now want to see fast results in terms of returned revenue).either way, the notion that the \"conventional marketing wisdom\" that applies to wow clones -- that \"(any) new features sell better than (most) older polished content\" -- does not apply to eve. or, better said, that if you try to apply it to eve, you won't get the results you see for the run-of-the-mill wow clones.so, yes, it is a proposal that maybe we don't really have a right to make (afterall, we're just customers, not company managers), but there is merit in trying to explain to ccp management that their current policy focus will not work the way they expect it to work.or, alternatively, that listening to people with no gameplay background (i.e. marketing, accounting, investors) when it comes to the general direction they take eve into will not end all that well for them.however, one of the claimed \"rights\" of the csm is that of a stakeholder. csm might or might have not been intended as a mostly cosmetic and/or pr thing at first, and it might have initially applied only to the prioritization process to a small degree, but it's certainly grown a lot since then, starting with csm3 or so, and thereafter.nowadays, in a twisted sort of way, the mass of eve customers is indeed somewhat similar to an actual stakeholder//investor in the company that is ccp, we have a vested interest in keeping the game running, and therefore, the company afloat... and the csm is, for better or worse, our best chance to reach slightly more receptive ears at ccp (rather than just screaming and shouting in the forums for no visible effect).even if normally we shouldn't really have the right to push our opinion regarding what would normally be internal ccp matters, in this particular case, i believe that the argument is worrying enough to deserve to be at least heard.unlike almost any of the other proposals the csm has brought forth so far, this one _if_ it makes it through the csm process (which i kind of doubt, but still hold the tiniest shred of hope), when presented, is not for the game dev team, but for marketing/accounting.i don't know, but i personally think that csm6 just might have a shot of expanding the scope of the indirect dialogue of \"the customer\" (us) with \"the company\" that ccp is, and this could be one of those aspects that would be... ahem... challenging, but interesting."
"fair enough. give em pvp insurance against other players, not concord, as well for 6 months after the character's creation."
"1. don't know where the \"paranoid\" part came from but \"obnoxious\"? considering that now u're turning your \"compromise\" into a straight-up nerf and still keeping it as an exploit, i'm probably being too lenient.2. u're coming up with \"something\"? so is everyone else--does simply coming up with something automatically make it good? no it doesn't, not for them, not for u, especially when u ignore the issues to your own proposal and just whine about how everyone's not liking it.3. i don't need to really come up with anything because suicide ganking is fine as-is. rookie ships aren't being suicide ganked so it's still not low sec and at the same time, ppl can't always hide their high sec alts in 100% safety. the only ppl who still cry for nerfs r said high sec alts funding their low sec/0.0 main because they're too scared to use their space and/or evading the -10 penalty (which most likely includes u). but if that's okay with ccp, then this is okay with ccp as well and it is.4. actually, u r being obstinate because once again, u completely miss my point by ignoring the fact that it's a lossmail-aversion exploit waiting to happen and u also changed it to a pure nerf so now u just simply \"think\" of of anything other than this fact.that's what the is for--it's a poorly-thought out idea to begin with that u just made worse with what u call \"thinking\" and u ignore the most obvious glaring issue with it and just degrade to whining about ppl not agreeing with u like u think they somehow should. not only does it belong in the features & ideas board instead of the assembly hall but i'm gonna add another just for u because even after repeating this, u still don't get it and most likely, u still won't."
"so then you would also say that new guys learning a trade or industrial career get invulnerability from suicide ganks? its difficult to generate a cash flow when your first mining barge or your first industrial filled with your first trade item get blown up by somebody who wants to see the pretty lights and isnt very worried about the cost to themself.when a trader makes a bad trade, he suffers financially. when a miner gets ganked during something like hulkageddon, he suffers financially. when you do anything badly or with bad judgement in eve, you suffer financially. why then should it be different for a ganker who makes a bad decision in what to gank? a good decision yields riches from the gank at any level.there is a great deal of bragging amongst pvpers regarding how well they do at pvp and how rewarding it is financially and was so even when they first started. there are also corporations oriented to pvp that give replacement ships to their members. both these things are at odds with what youre saying.-windjammer"
"am i a bad person for thinking they should remove insurance in general?"
"it's good for noobs, and noob subscription fee money is as good as anyone else's money."
"it will also cause a massive drop in mineral prices as well, so the miners will take another kick in the face.how many professions have to get wrecked so people can endlessly grind missions in tengus in safety?"
"this is why new players leave the game!! cos high sec is not safe!people need a real safe area or as stated remove insurance!it's a joke!"
"no, but as malconis has aptly pointed out, it would be a hard row for new players unless theyre supported by more experienced and richer players.this proposal only touches suicide ganking and if i understand it correctly only suicide ganking occurring in high sec, since concord is not present anywhere else. it does not touch other forms of pvp such as war, fighting in 0.0 or wormholes (lawless space) and presumably would not affect activities in low sec.the proposal would have minimal impact even on new players, but would introduce an element of cost analysis for those that wish to suicide gank in high sec. would it eliminate suicide ganking? of course not. would it make a suicide ganker pick and choose his/her targets more carefully instead of wailing away on whatever? thats the hope.-windjammer"
"yes, please!"
"dude ur awesome. thanks for the support!"
"waste of coding resources, game has too many obvious problems (abandoned features) to worry about 'pvp skill purity'. make a 'respec' proposal instead, or something. that probably won't attract much support either, but it'd get more than this."
"there are several more issues that need to be addressed first. i agree. but this issue will be addressed as well. even if it is at a later date. i will not back down on what i believe to be an improvement. however, thank you for your response."
"p.s. - i would also like to see what is the general concensus among all the csm's on this topic. thanks."
"both the name 'supercarrier' is stupid as balls and they're too small, i agreehowever this is pretty hilariously low priority. i can throw it in our 'ship models and paint' summit topic though and hope for the best. it might be an easy fix, i have no idea how model scaling works! cross your fingers'assault carriers' ain't bad, mothership would have been fine, supercarrier is terrible"
"yes."
"it's great that 3 of the huge threads in this section are:-fix gallente ships-fix blasters-fix railguns"
"i am supporting this. hybrid weapons in general require a look at, having too little advantages and suffering from too many penalties.since the issue is on the table for 2+ years and nothing happened, i do not have much hope."
"advantages where?:o i see none"
"bump for the new csm"
"******ed idea. that means if you wanna learn pvp you have to do wardecs or blob in 0.0."
"interesting :)there are both tears, and fun to be had."
"i think we should enforce a new rule now we have new forumspost with your main only!the amount of trolls, false references, false supports, and people hinding behind alts to basically act like idiots is a bit silly now.the forums over the past few years especially from nullsec alliances have turned to sh*t.ccp please enforce a post with your main only rule in the forums to stop all this.people will think twice before posting!btw posted with my main!people will think twice"
"and who of my 9 chars on my 3 accounts should i consider my 'main'?also: poasting with an alt just to annoy op."
"ah i had a feeling that would be asked, i was going to put it in the main post.well there is an option is settings called 'default character'. however at the moment it can be changed. so 2 options1) once default has been selected it cannot be unselected.2) the character with the most skillpoints on an account, is classed as the main account. now yes, there could be issues with this, because another alt on the account, could surpass your main account. im not sure how many times this would occur to be significant, because usually people who want a high sp alt usually have a second account, rather than an alt on the same account.you cant stop people have 3 accounts with 3 mains, and you couldnt really enforce a linked multiple accounts system, people just wouldnt do it. so yes if you have 3 accounts then youll have 3 mains.but it would still significantly make a difference to my initial points instead of allowing you to post with 9 characters! which to me is just silly."
"supported.alt posting = more risk-aversion under anonymity"
"better : 1 person ->1 account , remove multi acc nowalso 1 acc -> 1 char , this should work :p"
"then ccp wouldn't have all the russian botters paying subscription fees!?"
"should i have to care ?"
"ccp does!? ):"
"no. subversion and countering it is too great a part of this game."
"how insulting.... and pathetic... that an alt... of an npc'd corp... would propose a \"post with your main only\" forum rule.can you say hypocrite?you people really need to get out more...not supporting.ps: and the ironic thing is... i do post with my main..."
"are you an idiot? just because my main is in a npc corp, means its an alt. seriously you are an idiot...want my api? so you can look like a bigger dumbass?"
"i see no reason for this. it won't change the trolling.alt posting allows for a person who may have unfavorable opinions to post without risk to their alliance.alt posting allows you to post without people knowing your main (and thus knowing which pilot to hunt down and pod over and over)."
"the biggest problem that plagues new eden is the use of alts which are bankrolled by their primary characters which are then used to gank or do other non-savory things. the flip-side is also true, funds that are acquired doing illegal activity (according to concord laws) can be washed clean and passed to other characters, or alts. why not make a penalty for transferring funds to characters of opposite security status? (positive<->negative) by penalizing the status of the transferring character? characters of the same security status can move money between themselves of course (unless ccp wants to make a new isk item that is a physical cash representation that can be moved/passed)maybe even ban the interstellar transfer of credits to those with extreme sec status altogether (-5) from opposite ends? they are outlaws after all, why make it easy for them to move money around to throw away alts to continue their operations?they are laws against this in real life (and shady ways and black markets to get around them, ask your local mafia) there should be laws in new eden, especially since isk transfer is so simple to regulate, and the mechanics are already there to do the sec status penalties.say no to good citizens funding piracy, or legitimate businesses using dirty money.adding the below (which is from later on in this thread) to summarize the high level reasons behind this (proposed) solution. it may not be the best solution to the problem, but i believe the problem exists and is worth discussion."
"yeah, no."
"would you have an explanation for your summary judgement?"
"i went to my local mafia to ask them about money laundering and they were extremely unhelpful.thanks a lot for this great idea.e: below the \"check here if you want to give your support to the idea/discussion going on\" checkbox, there should be a \"check here to vote for this person to be set read-only\" box."
"i knew that you would appreciate the humour :)"
"allow me to further explain the proposal:good standing character transfers isk to negative sec status character, works but the good sec standing character takes a penalty to his sec statusneg standing char to another neg standing character works no penalties. neg standing char sending isk to high standing char must be manually accepted ( acknowledged ) by the good standing char. if accepted, positive sec standing takes a penalty. add new skills like money laundering that will reduce or eliminate the penalty. this should prevent rich players from funding new skilless alts for the sake of ganking for fun."
"could you first explain why the \"problem\" is actually a problem?"
"good question. i'm glad you asked. (as opposed to summarily dismissing the notion)so the reasoning i believe this is because it is consistent with having security ratings and penalties for shooting somebody in the first place. why do you get a penalty to attacking somebody in empire space? to protect the innocent, to keep the peace, etc etc. to make it clear that if you choose the dark side then there are consequences, (namely, people know you are an outlaw) and your standing reflects that behavior (good or bad). i'm not advocating one side is better, just that the sec rating system should reflect this behavioral choice.now, there are different professions in eve, and all are legitimate. pirates are just as necessary to the world of eve as are miners. we all should be able to agree that what makes eve a great free market meritocracy is that you are responsible for your actions. you are accountable for them, insofar as your characters reputation (manifested in standings) goes. if you choose to live a life of a crime boss, then that is great, if you want to work the mines, great too. what keeps everyone honest and coming back to eve is the sense of reputation accountability.what is broken in the \"reputation accounting\" system is that money transfers are allowed free without audit. why is this a problem? well, say you have a reputable ceo of a trustworthy corporation. his reputation means more to him than isk as he has plenty of cash and material things. if somebody ****es him off, he could just make a new alt, send him 500mil isk, and have that alt suicide gank his enemies. now this by itself is hard to stop, as nothing should really prevent anyone from just doing this. but, what most people do is create a ganking alt, with trained skills to be good at one thing.... killing people and doing the dirty work. (which is fine... many people make a living in this profession) but now, the same ceo can just have his 'personal' assassin kill and gank to his hearts content. this assassin alt is different from other players who happen to be pirates or pvp'ers for a living.he:doesn't care about moneydoesn't care about standings (reputation)has no personal capital invested into his character. (doesn't care whether he lives or dies.)why should we allow this behavior without penalty? should concord be turning a blind eye to sanctioned terrorism? how is it different from allowing the said good ceo to start ganking and killing at leisure without any sec status penalty?ps you should still be able to hire bounties on people without sec penalty. that is fine. i don't see that as the same because their is a 3rd party involved (the bounty hunter) so this is a positive thing for the economy (it gives bounty hunters jobs). plus, it is not the same because somebody who is making it their primary profession is now given a job to gank somebody, and he will take a sec standing hit for it (part of the service you are 'paying' for). not a temp alt created just for the purpose of delivering a plasma bomb to jita4-4, with free access to your corp ceo's wallet.i hope that makes sense. it's just an idea at this point, but one i though would be worth discussion."
"i support this message."
"^^ this.if you train to use a sc, then get there and find out how hard it is to keep it safe, you obviously are too ignorant to play this game. i am training to be a sc pilot but not to use it for logistics or even to keep it safe. i just want to fly it around and show it off until i get all blown to smitherines. but if you spend the 109 days to train to use a titan, and actually raise the 70+ billion isk to afford it, spend the month to build it, and end up getting blown up, that's your own fault. not ccp's. an investment of this size should be researched and decided upon many months before you actually finish training for it, not the week you finish and the day you want to go out and get one.what i mean to say is, if there were \"documentation\" on this subject, it would say this, \"you, my friend, are a ****ing re.ta.rd for not knowing what it means to be a sc pilot.\" loser."
"i would love to be able to do that, actually... i don't care if the bomb launcher was built using station eggs, used plex as ammo, could only be fired once per social security number, and required flying to iceland to verify my identity while using it."
"a lot of days i don't even trust myself, it makes folks feel better!"
"congrats - no one else outside of the goons trusts you either. yes you have every right to 'suggest' your alliance vote en mass to get you in, but you knew what conflict that would cause in the community after the childish sarcastic campaign you ran. you made the csm into a joke. am sure that makes you proud though. sad."
"i find it truly amusing how many people simply can't distinguish between the mittani, internet spaceships douchebag, and alex, rl member of the csm.the former wants to cause you pain. the latter wants to improve the game so as to provide the mittani with more opportunities to cause you pain.if you really want to stick it to the mittani, just ignore the trolling and reply to any substantial comments he makes with calm, sober, well-considered replies. it will drive him nucking futs."
"(the edit to this post was because i have realized that i chose a poor title for this thread. the new title, i believe, better reflects the intended message and hope of this thread. i've kept the old title [beyond artificial warmongering...] in the title so as not to cause any butt pain to those who would feel hurt by it's removal. also, i kind of like the sound of \"a day of peace to send a message beyond artificial warmongering\". i feel it's more clear.)from a speech by jfk, during his presidency, as the space-race was just gearing up. i like to think that we can all take a little bit from this:\"for the eyes of the world now look into space, to the moon(s) and to the planets beyond, and we have vowed that we shall not see it governed by a hostile flag of conquest, but by a banner of freedom and peace. we have vowed that we shall not see space filled with weapons of mass destruction, but with instruments of knowledge and understanding.\"sometimes i wonder how amazing and progressive eve would be if everyone was blue to everyone else, if not just for a day (to prove a point), just so we could all \"o/\" at each other and fly by, without worrying what's on the other side of gate (or cyno-beacon), damning language barriers and past discretions, to simply exist in the same world together, without conflict, malice, or aggression toward each other.i would be all for staging a day of peace in eve if only to show the world that if this many thousands of people from so many different countries and walks of life can take their fingers off the triggers for a day, there is indeed hope for humanity in the years to come."
"a shoot blues day? awesome."
"the thing is that if we (maybe) don't send weapons to space is not because we are good people, it's just because we need them to shoot ourselves on earth.so many millions years of evolution to be that stupid... we are not ready to make friends any where in that huge unquantifiable space."
"quoted for great truth."
"last time i checked, goons already shoot blues.it's really sad this is all a community of thousands can muster, 3 comments, none of which will even consider peace as an option for humanity.in a world constantly in conflict with itself, where people are dying daily for no good reason, it's sad that this is the response to a call for peace.all i see here is fear and bigotry. and it makes me sick."
"someone needs to to reestablish the boundaries between real life and the game world. but... i'll humor you by posing a question:how many times in our history as a species has a \"lasting\" peace been made when limited resources and/or religion/ideology has been at stake?"
"if you feel this action is uncalled for please reply and say''unerf it'' see if we can get most of the eve population on this thanksccp shouid know that this nerf will severely decrease their stock and salesthanks for any support"
"they should never have gone with the anomaly nerf and i'm not too sure what drove that decision other than either jealousy or short-sightedness."
"unerf it"
"ccp has successfully created another waasteland like the drone regions. un-nerf this. bad call ccp, bad call..."
"the change was way to drastic, ccp made basicly all the 0,0 systems about more or less worthless and this will only make the rest of 0,0 like the drone regions a ****load of botters running killing everything in sight becauseit will be the only way to make even remotly the same amount of isk as you used to or turn to empire mission running"
"unerf it"
"unerf it"
"they have made the upgrades worthless.unerf it."
"risk vs. reward is not balanced now. unerf it"
"dislike how you spam this message around to get people to post, and disagree to the thread.this has been one of the best changes to 0.0 for ages, if anything more should be changed it's a moongoo-mechanic fix or a de-dominionation."
"put it back, put it back, put it back. errr unferf it. those of us that live in 0.0 space should have the same opportunity to make isk as those people up in high sec when it comes to anoms and ratting. this makes the game unbalanced when it comes to wealth."
"the idea seems to have been that the large coalitions will self implode because others would want thier space. this idea was just ignorant of ccp. it will not make it easier for little alliances to gain sov. now with this nerf, system ihub modules are worthless to put in because there is no hope to \"upgrade\" crappy systems. i was in an npc system that has better ratting and mining than a fully upgraded system, with sov. tell me how this helped ccp. your totally out of touch with your null sec residents!why does this matter to you? you fly with the milita."
"unnerf it!!!!"
"unerf it.."
"un-nerf this ****, man."
"keep the nerf."
"unnerf it!!!"
"unerf it!"
"unerf it"
"either un-nerf it or rethink your nerf and try a more fair method to improve game play. nul sec should allways pay better than empire space..allways.."
"unnerf this bs. i used to be a highsec missioner before i moved to null, and for awhile i was pulling about even on net profit. now with anoms nerfed if i lose a ship its a solid week of *trying* to find enough active sanctums (in a fully upgraded system) to get the isk to replace it."
"it sucks...un nerf it"
"signed."
"while i rarely ran anoms in null sec (and those that i did were ports), unnerf it. it drives up the competition for exploration which is my main source of income in null sec."
"null got what in the real world would be similar to a tax-credit, it did not have the desired effect and has thus been revoked .. there has been no nerf, but rather a removal of a buff."
"i'd like to see the change undone. it has resulted in a way too heavy impact on nullsec players' ways of acquiring an income."
"unneft it / ty"
"un nerf it!this makes upgrades useless and it even more impossible for new alliances to get into 0.0"
"unnerf please... it took me long enough to make money before. now it takes me twice as long. ratting sucks, i don't want to have to do it for days just to fund a few simple pvp ships."
"unnerf it. think of the carebears!"
"why did you do this??????unerf it please"
"unerf it"
"unerf it"
"fix what you broke and please stop being stupid! unnerf our space please / ty !"
"un-nerf it and or nerf things in empire.bad move on ccp's part to suddenly bring in a stupid idea no one asked for. people who probably never entered 0.0 or play the game period think up the stupidest ideas."
"severly un-nerf it !"
"unnerf it!!!"
"unerf it! befor i have to go to high sec and kill noobs. just to loot the trit"
"unerf it"
"unnerf it"
"un-nerf it, now."
"unerf if.they should have kept the old system as the crappiest one.... then make lower sec better than that... maybe some upgrades for larger groups or caps...give us back isk to afford more pvp ships.besides.... other than the conflict between the russians and nc... has there really been more fighting over areas with good anoms..."
"unerf pls"
"as before pls, thank you. making more iskies in high sec than nullsec kinda missed the point of nullsec home bases."
"be smart, do the right thing, fix it, unerf it."
"unerf it!"
"great way to once again **** on the little guy ccp. un-nerf thanks."
"unerf it"
"unnerf it"
"unerf it"
"unnerf it"
"this nerf is uncalled for, and goes against the whole spirit of nul sec, higher rewards for higher risk.unnerf it!"
"thanks guys keep going and spreading this. we have ccp intrest in this matter now"
"unerf it !!!!"
"unerf it..."
"unerf it"
"unerf it"
"unerf it"
"unnerfit!!!"
"risk vs reward is one of the staples of this game. unerf it"
"+1 unnerf it.."
"un-ccp it"
"unnerf it"
"what was u thinking ccp, unerf it"
"unnerf it now"
"unerf it"
"dont no what the intent was for the nerfing of null sec but it was not thought out at all. you need to unnerf this"
"ccp fail if i wanted to make 5mill an hour i would live in empire."
"nope"
"unnerf it"
"unnerf it. it takes me two weeks now to get back the isk i lose if one of my ships blows up. you broke it you fix it"
"i believe the change is not producing the intended consequences, and as such needs to be looked at for revision."
"this ^^^^^"
"send mails to all your alliances/corps lets try and get this petition sorted and signed"
"do it, do it noooooooooow!!!!!!!!!!!!!get back to da sanctum!!!!!!!"
"unerf it.no doubt belt rats will be nerfed next.surely there has to be an easier way to hurt the botters, i'd agree to ccp checking for 'bot software only' as eve is running."
"long term 0.0 player and i am heavily against removing this change, but for adjusting level 4 missions to bring them more in line with the risk/reward structure enjoyed in lowsec."
"un-nerf now."
"unerf itps: asap !!!"
"omfg im agreeing with a goon this nerff is ****. and only hurts small alliances"
"i believe dreadnaughts should be buffed to become carrier/super carrier killers.first there siege mode should be changed to only give increase damage bonus to structures, so they are still great for pos bashing.however, there base damage should be increased dramatically. dreads should be able to effectively fight and kill carriers and super carriers without having to go into siege mode. make dreads mini titans without the dd.this would give a huge counter to the current \"super carrier blobs\" that dominate 0.0 warfare. these sc blobs need a counter and that would be dreads!so in short:1. change siege mode to only increase damage against structures2. increase dread damage so there able to fight and kill carriers/super carriers."
"amen!/signed"
"this is an innovative idea that's never been posted before.great scott!"
"dreads suck, we all know it, we're bringing this (not your specific idea, but dreads needing love) up at the summit during our ship balance/capship balance thingie"
"the major problem with dreads is not their capabilities directly, but that they've been superseded in most roles by supercarriers - if every supercarrier was deleted from the server tomorrow most of the balance issues with dreads would go away too.they could use some tweaks (the 5-minute siege cycle is a no-brainer), but the focus of any capital hull re-balance should be on limiting the omnipotence of supercarriers so that they don't outperform all other options in nearly all circumstances."
"problem with making them into mini-titans is that of sub-capitals, dread tracking may not be stellar but with full damage out of siege you merely swap the sc blob for a dread/carrier blob.- remove ability of bombers to target structures.- cut siege in half .. did wonders for triage, is a no brainer.that is provided ccp and null insists on blobbage should be the one and only option as far as sov warfare is concerned.the fabric of space-time is already becoming moist from the mere uttering of those words .. best not"
"yes definately! dreads had a role when pos warfare ruled. now it doesn't and now they gather dust cos noone wants to buy them.definately give them a new/added roleyes!"
"^that.as a class, dreads are balanced excellently. they have a specific role. they're horribly vulnerable to subcapitals and require a support fleet. they have to commit to a fight because of siege mode and can't just teleport out on a whim (this is a powerful argument for not cutting siege to five minutes).supercarriers break all three of these points. hence the answer lies not in changes to dreads, but in changing supercarriers so that they follow these three rules."
"- dread siege reduced to 5 min cycle time- make supers vulnerable to support ships by not allowing them to lock anything smaller than a capital- remove the ability to fit anything other than fighters and fighter bombers on super carriers and remove titan"
"i like. as the only buying force to buy one is to bash an online tower. that's it. 1.2bil+ doesn't seem to justify that cost imo. take a few scs to knock out guns/ew, than get a lot of people with stealth bombers and glass cannon bss to take out the tower. since it's so easy and cheap to use either, there wouldn't be much point in having a dread. though i must admit, i also found a fun use of dreads to use during mass testing events on sisi and take a moros with ions and siege for the pvp part and destroy all ships that don't move.(and you would be surprised how many people don't lol)but yeah, other than that. theres really not much role for a dread for the price of it. so i defiantly agree they need to do something done. and without the stupid, snotty response from ccp, \"they're not called super dreadnaughts for a reason hurf derf\". (that was one of the dumbest responses from ccp during fanfast)."
"this, i would say dreads are the most balanced ships in eve themselves, the issue is supercaps, not dreads."
"im so sick of these multispec eccms being fit on ships, how am i suppose to jam anything if every ship if every ship out there has a get out of jail free card. im constantly losing my blackbirds when i'm in low sec pvping because people decide this is the cool thing to do. at least make the playing field even.ccp stop this travesty....now."
"first!but seriously... yeop"
"fully agree, there is nothing worse when when my falcon alt uncloaks and misses a jam cycle because someone is running the most annoying in-space graphic even seen!"
"the playing field is even. if you put eccm in your mids instead of tank or tackle you are nerfing your ship vs any non-ewar opponent, which most of them are.your problem is you don't want to learn how to play your toon and properly fly a jam ship, you want an instant-win button. your request makes about as much sense as asking ccp to remove all tanking, cloaking, warp stab and mobility modules from the game, so that everything gets tackled and instapopped. if you want ecm that works 100% of the time, fly gallante w/ sensor dampers and load up 2-3 scripted damp modules. how about you go to ewar school using the link below? then at least you will have the information to competently fit your ship and pick your opponents. maybe you will even figure out why soloing most pvp ships larger than frigate with your blackbird is a bad idea. a rook is a much better ship for that, but in either case, being a good ewar pilot is 90% piloting/ship fitting/picking your opponent and only about 10% dependent on how much sp you put into ewar skills. definitive guide to ewarewar is a fleet/gang support strategy. with the insane range you have with jammers (my ewar pilot has 110km optimal jam range on his bb) you shouldn't lose bb's in lowsec. maybe if you run into an arty battleship gang. and here's a hint for that scenario-warp off instead of dying and crying..."
"theres a counter to falcons. you whine about it."
"lol, i thought i would never see the day that ecm pilots would be complaining."
"i support this proposition even more!"
"dont spam localand i need eccm to be unprobeableskill an other ship...caldari is ugly :d"
"fix eve sounds."
"in other news, ccp's response to this thread seems to confirm the fact that they do not have any plan in place which is really, really a disappointment.fix eve sounds."
"as stated in another thread:i wonder if ccp can detect the % of people with sound on vs off.the only reason i play without sound is that i often play with multiple accounts. the sound from the account out of focus usually annoys me so i turn it off. by switching through multiple accounts they end up all with sound off.would be nice to have the option to have sound off for windows out of focus or a shortcut key to turn sound on and off (haven't checked if there is one honestly). either that and/or have an advanced selection of sounds we want to hear."
"i play eve from two clients at times. i've disabled sounds because multi-client w/sound can result in ctd's and bsod. having done some research on this very annoying problem i eventually discovered that the problem is not with ccp or eve. it is with the fact that i prefer and use creative labs sound cards. one file in the driver set has a fundamental flaw in it then when combined with certain applications can result in sudden instability. it is, from my research, something that is known, reported, complained about and nothing being done about. (this was from reading creative's forums - guess what, whining ensues there as well.)i would suspect that the true problem is simply one of legacy control of irq's. at some point both eve clients will try to make a specific sound that triggers on the same interrupt.i would like ccp to eventually make it so that multi-client players can have true multi-clients as we once did in the past. this would allow individual settings of which client has sound and which one does not. however, that being said, the truth is that the fundamental flaw i encounter is not one of ccp's making."
"i know a good deal of people who would stake their pvp reputations on the fact playing eve with sound off lags less!"
"tl;dr-access to plexes restricted by rank (agents respond to rank, not standing, and give keys to access plexes)-higher rank plexes are more profitable, encouraging pvp between all levels of skill to try and gain rank-ranks are based on kill count per week/month and quality of the kills (the rank of the victim)-fw pilots have access to unique equipment that can only be used by fw pilots, rendering it a career worth pursuing.-farming can only occur if you maintain your rank...mass killing lower ranks in starter plexes won't cut it for the big ranks, hence the quality part of determining rank. higher ranks will have earned it through pvp, and likely need the extra income as a result of the pvp costs they incur.so the rough idea is this: fw ought to be a form of income for pvp players (inherently, pvp can cost a lot of isk). what i propose is that fw plexes, and therefore the bulk of what fw is made of, can only be accessed by players of a certain rank.(i actually know very little on fw, but i've tried it a few times trying to get into it. it sounds good on paper and, well, you all know it's anything but.)have fw broken down based on the pvp ranks within fw. make the plexes require keys to enter, and thus agents to access. an agent, much like standard agents, will only speak to you if you hold the necessary rank. thus, larger more profitable, and dangerous plexes are accessible only to players of a higher caliber.ranks need to then be based off of something other than standings (or farmers could just grind the rank). the solution? much like ranks in other games, base them on kills per week or month. i know this will sound very wow-like, but you may want to consider higher ranks requiring a minimal rank kill to count. in other words, a high rank shouldn't be there because he mass ganked a bunch of bottom ranks in a low-end plex. this has several effects:encourages fw by making pvp have tangible gains and benefits: -higher level plexes-maybe even make parts of the lp stores accessible only to certain ranks. a private shouldn't be able to buy the top-of-the-line ammunition!-ranks are based on kill count as well as the quality of the kill (the rank of the victim). this keeps higher rank pilots seeking other high rank pilots to keep their status. will they still go and waste low-end pilots? of course, but to keep that rank you'll need to engage in real fights. (a win win if you're a true pvp fanatic anyways)-certain faction items will be available only to fw pilots, making that aspect of eve a defined role. fw pilots will experience benefits for putting themselves at risk and have a way to gain isk to sustain themselves through pvp (no more regular missions, yay!)mechanics wise on plexes, that's a whole different story and one i really can't begin to tackle. i made this proposal to try and make fw more appealing and more defined as a career in eve. the fw zones need to be expanded in my opinion, and i'm sure the plexes need work. thoughts?"
"why do people post in colors? why!?"
"i don't know, but i wish they would stop."
"this will never happen. i could go on and on with a million reasons, but i'll stick with just this: how will limiting income increase pvp?"
"as a non-botter it was hard enough to keep up with replacing pvp ships anyway.imo i think ccp are attempting to reduce blobs and or botters.drf's slow but steady progress in to germinate and vale - the north will soon be full of raven belt ratters that log moments after a neut enters system.its amazing how many bot are over in the drone regions. i was gob smacked."
"hello everyone, i've recently moved out to nullsec for the first time, and while the probing mechanic is a lot of fun, and as any vet knows drastically improved over the old system, i would like to see this pos module re-introduced to the game with a couple of changes.system scanning array- when used detects all signatures in the system.- only displays a list of the sites, but you can't warp to them.- columns of information displayed: id, scan group, group- remaining life of signature if applicablere-implimenting this with the proposed changes would do two things that i think are needed. first, it will allow easier sharing of site information with the corp, so anyone who wants to do a site can quickly and easily see what is available through a scan. additionally it will cut out a lot of 'filler' game time as i like to call it. this being the entire hour you can sometimes spend scanning down every signature in the system in order to find the type you want to do; more time if you have less than l4 scanning skills.so basically with this, you have the ability to make the process easier for system inhabitants, leave it unchanged for people new to a system who haven't moved in, and still require actual probing to be done by system inhabitants after they see whether or not the site they want exists, but as someone who lives there and has invested in the scanning array, they instantly know which signatures that they should look at to find what they want."
"hi csm,as a relative new player (slowly coming up on 2 years) i have a proposal that i hope could spark more new players to try pvp (more than once at least) during the early stages of the game. let me explain what i mean;as it is now the cost of loosing a ship during a war dec is only a small part of the total cost due to the fact that more than likely you'll end up losing you pod as well - along with all those expensive learning implants.my proposal is to simply make the learning implants either cheaper or make them insurable e.g. just as the ships.now some would say \"hey if you can't afford to loose your implants then don't go to war with them\", and this is precisely my point too in fact. let me explain my point of view.. all new players are, as i see it, more or less \"bound\" to their learning implants because;1) new players have so many essential skills yet to learn so learning implants is a must.2) new players most often do not have access (yet) to jump clones to safeguard their existing implants and even if they have, they would pay a relatively heavy toll, by missing out on those esssential sps. in the early stages of eve every sp is worth gold.the result of this is that new players often pay up or stay docked up for a loong time as a result of a wardec. rather than fighting back, due to the over-proportional risk they are in fact facing (i.e. they have both less experience and are most often pitted against more advanced fitted ships). you only need to try it once (or maybe twice) to realize it is simply prohibitivly expensive to even try to fight back unless you know exactly what you're doing (which new players of course don't yet). and when you realise what you need to do to overcome an enemy tactic, you often find you need...(you guessed it) more skill points - and then we are back to the waiting game again.this is a less than desirable state of affairs given this is after all just a game. i believe both the mercs and the newbees would have a better gaming experience in my opinion by just \"having a go at it\" - it would lead to a) less idle station / gate camping time and b) more action / mistakes for the newbee's to learn from. rather than passing the time managing skill queues and twirling your inactive ships around in an npc hangar.. or even more boring - playing other games then eve"
"eidt:i hate the ingame browser :sjust - i agree"
"why do you think we have the \"material for war preparation missions\"?when i started playing that missions was something new and the price of a standard (+4) implant was well above 150 millions. now it is 20 millions. a basic (+3) implant was around 80 millions, now it is 10 millions or less. a full head of +4 has moved from above 800 millions to 100. make it lower and you can totally remove the +1 and +2 implants from the game."
"i don't like either of your proposals. the cost of implants is relatively low anyhow and reducing their cost to levels where everyone can afford to lose them removes the cost/benefit choice that is integral to everything you do in eve. if you want the benefits implants give, you have to accept the risk of losing them.your complaint about training speeds was somewhat relevant before the removal of learning skills, but the few point difference expensive implants make isn't significan't anymore. many vets don't bother with them and a newbie can certainly progress with good speed without them. only reason to care about that anymore is if you are only playing the sp progression game.the only point worth considering is the lack of jump clones and the assosiated jump clone mechanic. there are easy to use jump clone services, but such services should be made more easily available or maybe more precisely information about such player provided services should be easily available in the game. an alternative would be to allow people to gain access to jump clones in alternative ways, that doesn't require increasing your standings by mission grinding. the jump clone mechanic can also be tweaked to allow clone switching more often than once in 24 h to facilitate more spontanious pvp combat.so while there is lot ccp can do to improve the situation, i don't think implant insurance or reducing the value of implants is the proper or desireable solution.not supported."
"you say you want this for new players, then call yourself, nearly 2 years old, a new player. for the sake of clarity, define \"new player\" in your mind. 3 months? 6? 2 years? at what age would your proposal cut off?"
"csm 6 is holding a live q&a session for all eve players to meet with and ask questions. if you are curious about the csm 6 or have questions for csm you can join. begins at 20:00 todaysoftware: mumble (google it)server: public-mumble.goonfleet.com port 64738detailed instructions"
"thanks alot guys, really enjoyed the chat."
"i haven't forgotten this; i doubt we're in a position to push an already-fully fledged expansion, but we'll see how much political capital we gobble up as time passes. i also don't think i'm a real expert on lowsec. i'll probably defer to meissa on lowsec issues, but lowsec is one of the major 'ccp abandons features' areas we have to contend with (along with wormholes, t3 ships, faction warfare, and the 70% of domininon that got cut)"
"i like most of the ideas, especially the methnaught. that said the vigilante/corrupter mechanic sounds exactly like what fw should have been from the start. there is a problem with any module that can only be used in low sec though, and that's there is no demand for export thus it would never be that valuable. instead such things should be only produced and traded in low sec, but available for use everywhere."
"im sure you missed something there..."
"botters will always exploit the weakest link - so pushing them out of mining mostly moves them into mission macros. you need something to address both.also, the fancy bots use memory reading and python injection, so this would have to avoid that as well."
"as a response to all the naysayers:with most of the races which have been updated, ccp took care to ensure the appearance of the new characters were similar to the old ones.for example; caldari civire, minmatar brutor, gallente jin mei.even the caldari achura kept their japanese-esque appearance (although much improved).my girlfriend created a beautiful vherokior avatar, one which she loved and she even wrote a little back story to her. (for those interested she was a baby-faced riddick style killer).vherokior looked sort of white with a slight oriental hint. however when she reactivated her account and found her character transformed into what she described as a vietnamese rice farmer, she was so upset that she deleted the character and started again!this is not racist, at least not intended as offensive,but with the graphical improvement vherokior characters did not expect a complete race change.now as asian people go, not every one has tiny slits for eyes (we all know this anyway). why can we not change the eyes, are all vherokior females sisters? give us at least some bounds for change, i've spent hours trying to make a face which fits the back story but the best i can get is a butch lesbian michelle rodriguez lookalike.a little breathing room is better than none, and personally i see no reason to oppose this call. aside from the racist trolls, this is a very valid point which should be addressed - vherokior are the only race which has completely changed its ethnicity overnight with the new character creator."
"oh and /supported x"
"what a load of bulls**t. find one post... just one, where you or someone else in the nc posted (prior to the anomaly change) about the technetium monopoly in the north being bad for the game. find and point me to that post. do that, and i'll believe that you care about the game and not just about continuing your own coalition's financial dominance."
"yeh, i don't like the current ship designs at alledit: possibly add a \"legacy models\" visual option?"
"not supported, i've become way too attatched to the old models we all know and love.the only ship i would want changed is the griffin, and i like the model itself, it just doesn't make sense that when it is moving forward, it has engines pointed left, right, and forward all turned on edited for grammar."
"i'm all for new skins, but the same shapes. as already said, i want the classic look still there. scorpion was changed a good amount, but not so much its unrecognizable from its original form. the 'scorp tail' is still there.+1 for new skins...but keep the classic shapespace potato could be cooler...but the new dominix still needs to be a bulbous hulk. it is, afterall, a massive drone-battleship."
"you're way too conservative, keep the old shapes ? come on, the only ships worthy of a 2011 spaceship game are the amarr for the most part. also every ship in the game has been copied and pasted 2-3 times for t2 models or navy models or pirate models with different skins... it took me over 2 months to pilot a command ship that looks just like its t1 counter part, that's lame considering the game has been supported for 8 years."
"working on poking at the art department about models and skins, it might even be an entire summit topic in may. aesthetics are very important for player retention, imo, on a number of levels."
"i think i got it all, but you correct me if im wrong, will you? to anyone whos seen other posts from zero regarding people who disagree with him, that should look very familiar. particularly the part about lying and trolling. hes very fond of that whether he has a leg to stand on or not.does anyone else think this is a ridiculous assertion? in a world where anything might be possible, it remains very improbable to the point of absurdity. satanists do exist, yes, but is it reasonable to think the guy playing one in a game is potentially a satanist in real life? would it be something youd be concerned about?by comparison, i suggest that a griefer, for example, in the game of eve has a fair chance of being a griefer in real life. much less of a stretch. lets take a case in point. zeros focus of hero worship is the mittani, aka mittens, aka mits or mitts (as in get your mitts off my stuff). mitts plays a griefer in the game of eve. hes very good at it and seems to enjoy it a great deal. on the forums he describes himself as a sadist (his exact term) and sees nothing wrong with this. griefer in game, griefer in real life, point proven. i should point out that i do not personally see this as necessarily being a character defect. if the rumor of him being a lawyer is true, it may even be an occupational asset.it was in response to this statement by lordelfa that i gave several examples of how its possible for someone to be in real life what they are in the game with regard to certain behaviors. i did this because elfa seemed to be suggesting that people who act in a certain way in the game, arent going to act that way out of the game.-windjammer"
"i'll be laughing harder than that when we discover that the real goal of getting themselves elected to the csm was to close enough to the gm staff to make it rain *****es in jita. yes, the goonswarm: visionairy leaders."
"naturally, windy is lying and trolling again. the clue is that he's posting about me. naturally, i point out when people are lying and trolling when, ya know, they actually are. those people who disagree with me without lying and trolling, don't get called on it. but of course, windy knows that and is trolling about it. that's why, when i've proven over and over that windy is a liar and a troll (just check the number of faked quoted he provided to troll), so his pattern is to either a) ignore the actual factual, logical refutations of his pathological lying and handwave about how they're wrong (never actually being able to show how they're wrong) of b) use the kind of an hominem fallacy he's using here. windjammer, not the sharpest knife in the drawer, recognizes that it's ridiculous to claim that someone playing an evil mage in d&d might be a satanist, but thinks it's perfectly reasonable to think that someone who plays a griefer in eve might be \"scum\" in real life. earlier, he lied and claimed that this was a false analogy and a strawman. again, the test: is windy making a claim about me? yes. is it on the forums? yes. is he lying and trolling? do i even need to ask?of course as windy doesn't post at me without lying and trolling, i've engaged in no hero worship. windy, however, is obsessed with the mittani to the point of conducting a libelous internet campaign against an internet cite that publishes his stuff, and him personally in order to get him fired. windy is is obsessed with mittens personally and with people being \"masters\" and \"superiors\" in an internet-spaceship game. there are several leather clubs that can cater to windy's odd obsession, but trying to shoehorn it into eve is more than a little bit creepy. of course, windy is almost definitely lying and trolling, as is standard. only an idiot would believe that offering factual refutations to accusations made against someone means that the person is \"hero worshiping\" or wants to be the \"slave\" to the \"master\" or wants to be the \"inferior\" to the \"superior\" person. most likely, windy is just enraged by being proven wrong, and is desperately casting about for personal insults he can possibly use. as windy doesn't know anything about even basic logic, this is just one of his series of already debunked fallacies. it'd be like finding one d&d player who was also a satanist, and declaring \"point proven\"."
"i really hope the new and improved new forums have an \"ignore\" feature."
"i'd be willing to sacrifice an ignore feature if we got an intelligence test that was required before people could post."
"as do i. it's much needed. alternately, i'd be just as pleased with a properly administered intelligence test or even a standard of judgment to determine worth of content which could be used to eliminate a ton of posts.of course in the later theyd have to hire on another moderator, or more, just to keep up.-windjammer"
"1) wrong forum2) you've been trolled...hard."
"how about the ability to create tabs/folders in your ships cargo hold instead. (all ships)"
"ammunition storage slots would be better so you could put 2-3 crystals on one laser and switch between them using a small crystal icon..this would work for laser turrets as wellfor rail/cannon you would be able to store extra rounds of a bullet type on a weapon like this 200/2000 or 120/1200 or 20/200 or 40/400 etc so each weapon recieves an amount of reloads before it must be fully reloaded (assuming computerized machines or crews handle the reloading of your space vessel)although there should also be personal slots to store important things that are not sellable/disposable loot...tabbable cargo/hangars is probably the best idea of course so i agree with the above posteralso while i'm thinking of it, maybe mining barges can access industrial cargo holds without using a can like with an orca which would cut down on pirate harassment for newbie miners"
"and yet you still havent found the post in which i advocated mitts be fired. you who are so fond of quotes can find nothing? can you find anything in this thread showing i advocated tentonhammer take a specific action of any kind against mitts? no? interesting. what exactly did i advocate, little duck? and now youre saying that unless i supply you with a demand i might make of tentonhammer, im a liar and a troll. what an interesting train of.would you call it logic?wheres your rope, zero? i dont seem to be able to see it. or is that what youre walking on? looks very frayed.-windjammer"
"i know you're horrible at logic, but i've already pointed out what your demand is and pointed out that if you can't supply what you claim is your \"real\" demand, that the logical necessity stands: you are demanding the only possible change that someone can make to stop an opinion column from printing opinions. that is, to remove it from publication. it's okay, i've given you enough rope to hang yourself. you will either point out what actual action you're demanding tth take to stop opinions in an opinion column, or prove, yet again, that you are a liar and a troll. it's very simple. let me guess more personal attacks, more logical fallacies, more alleging that showing how you lie and troll constantly makes someone a \"forum troll at large\"... but absolutely no answer as to what you're demanding tth do to stop opinions in an opinion column."
"im still waiting for you to show where i advocated mitts be fired. let me give you a little bit of information. it doesnt exist. no matter how hard you try to pretend that it does. i see. you manufacture a demand, but claim i made it and you cant show where i made such a demand. thats because the demand doesnt exist.then you say that unless i provide an alternate demand, your created one must be true because you, zero, cannot imagine anything else, calling it the only possibility. and you call this.logic. hmmm. perhaps it is. zero logic. has a ring to it.have i made a demand of mitts, of tentonhammer, of anyone? have i done anything other than urge people to write to support@tentonhammer.com to express themselves?that rope around your neck is catching the light in a most fetching manner, zero.-windjammer"
"by acclamation, csm6 has chosen the following officers:chairman: mevice chair: meissa secretary: treborvice secretary: unfilled"
"they will do nothing as their new goon leader is more interested in posting sarcastic snarky comments and buffing his goon's agenda than anything else. stealing an election and ruining the progress the csm made and turning it into a joke seems to appeal to some people."
"lol"
"to the top!"
"dear opquit your whining and raging and changing this topic on people. repost with the original proposal now.oh and it took 3 years for rockets. finally it's only a lost cause if you do something like this, so stop your *****ing and make it proper again. eve never gave respect to anyone who backed downed and cried about it."
"bump"
"...char limit reached...not so much just abandoning features (although that is a huge part of it too), but also to a smaller degree the tendency to release barebones features in an environment we know is conducive to not revisiting old features too often.the approach needs to be two-pronged : older features do need to be revisited even if they were quite ok once upon a time, but also, new features should not be released at all in such a skeletal state so often.but yeah, on the other hand, this csm might as well ignore this particular (company policy // marketing) aspect of this way too wide-reaching issue because, realistically speaking, it's something unlikely to have much of an effect (if any, at all) on ccp's attitude (much less actions), so it will practically be a waste of time.just like you can't convince the staff economist that the eve economy is fundamentally unlike the real world economy so his measures at best only do more bad than good when the other important \"secret ingredient\" (gameplay alterations) is missing, i suppose it will be almost impossible to sway any of the guys over at marketing that simply pushing out more and more new stuff will not do any good.then again, a more restricted approach (i.e. just the \"feature abandonment\" part) might have more chances of success, so, good luck with that.hopefully you'll get through to some degree."
"i disagree. quality, as in software quality and feature polishedness, was never a selling point for eve. depth, endless possibilities, pvp and uniqueness were and still are. serving a niche market with essentially no competition and having a playerbase that is frustration tolerant minimized the impact of lack of quality for ccp. this has led to a management and dev mentality where quality is regarded as of secondary importance. however, the bigger the game, the playerbase and the company grows, the meaner the problems arising from that mentality become. thus underlining the importance of the call made by you in the opening post."
"well, \"quality\" in the broader sense, not strictly \"lacking bugs\" or similar.one could argue that, say, the game design choices that lead to the depth and width we experience in eve would constitute in itself \"quality\", and that the more both of those \"dimensions\" is expanded by any additional feature, the higher the quality of that particular feature is. so, in that sense, for example, pi would be a rather shallow but wide feature (quite simplistic if you look beyond the sheer number of building/schematic/material combinations, but with a large-scale impact on a lot of people), so not exactly quite of high quality yet. but if its depth could be improved (meaningful territorial conflict, population/zone management, a more involved prospecting process, a more involved competition for resources, etc), it would qualify as being of high quality afterwards.but yeah, you have a point. good thing that the conclusion is nevertheless the same"
"yeah, i thought of dwelling on the definition of \"quality\" but i was lazy.at least we can say that the quality of the game experience is still good enough for us to care to discuss here"
"keyword \"still\""
"supporting"
"supporting with an alt"
"there is nevar enough alt support!"
"i couldn't afford more my \"the yang\" anymore, so i'm stuck with \"the ying\". i would like to be able to change my name, only once in a lifetime would be great imo."
"yep, as long as the char can be found by any past names and that the char info lists all past names, i'm okay with the proposal. consequence is a key principle of eve, and with this condition it is retained. it's then just an inconvenience for people doing background checks, as the amount of work scales with the amount of names the char under scrutiny had...while at it, i'd definitely like to see transfers being listed in the char info (just dates really, as account name or any other such thing is private)."
"i would like this feature. i thought several times i should support my corp and buy a mining alt. but then i never found one with a name i relly liked."
"you're a goddamned hero, hired goonshine on"
"i don't care other than to add that if it was changed i'd like to enter a dob to satisfy my rp fancy. it would obviously have to be limited to a certain period in game years preferably as some multiple of actual 'pilot certification'. that way only the really really disgustingly old sob could claim to be born prior to the clone and capsule being joined."
"it's trivial and it is good.supported."
"nothing ventured, nothing gained."
"gallente would need some seriously good fixes to become wanted in fleets again, virtually all gallente players with any sense cross train early in their career.the only advantage rolling a gallente character gives you is your in a good spot to cross train minmatar for better ships and some of the best pirate faction boats in the game. the only reason a minmatar char would cross train gallente would be to fly the dram, cyna, mach.i dont mind the gallente having the same added complexity and more skill intensive nature that the minmtar have (given that makes it easy to cross train). just wished that training could be applied to some decent gallente ships, rather than just preparing you for a nearly inevitable crosstrain into minmatar ships. if you want a point of comparison, to fly the decent caldari ships you need to mainly just concentrate on shield tanking and missiles, amarr mainly just needs to focus gunnery, lazors, and armor tanking. for comparison gallente requires, gunnery, hybrids, tons of drone skills, armor tanking, shield tanking, and comparatively better fitting skills because gallente ships are soo bad on pg/cpu. minmatar ships require essentially the same skillset as gallente exchanging projectiles for hybrids but have much more effective ships and weapon systems in comparison, they are also much easier to fit compared to gallente ships."
"everyone and their dog knows the draek is op, and thats why the drake needs a buff to be competative with it so not everyone is flying the op draek. in fact the draek is were all of eve's ballancing issues come from.also on a side note a geddon can do everything a mega can for less isk at 300% the range with 10% less paper dps, and geddon doesnt use ammo. the geddon can both shoot the guy getting caught in the drag bubble and the guy undocking from the station without having to move."
"sensible. make community service the way of the future!"
"remove or lessen the sec gain from null rats. why?if you are bad you can just go back to the safe alliance space and fix your ss without any risk. now if null didn't fix ss you'd have to:a) rat in the highsec belts very inefficientlyb) go to lowsec belts and be in a danger of being ganked yourselfc) grind missions and risk losing your mission ship when someone decides to use their killrights. i'd say people would be more willing to get revenge if it felt like a revenge and not just a nuisance that's got over in 15 minutes at most when you lose a gankship."
"thread needs some attention from csm members imho.my suspicion is that this would lead to lots of people running missions in lowsec in unprobeable tengus. of course, some of them would make mistakes from time to time...edit: if people would like to give some indication of where they usually go to regain sec status, i've started a poll on fhc:"
"this could actually work. cautious support."
"this is strong plan"
"added to the op, cheers."
"sec status is a fail penalty in my opinion, i think it should be removed or revamped and i have an idea that i will get to in a sec. we all know people who do crimes could care less about sec so if your thinking this will stop griefers or make pirates stop to think, think again.if i was going to invent a real penalty i rather see a more real life practice put into the game. fine the people who commit crimes. now you would not have to pay the fine, the fine buys back your sec status kinda like a bounty on your sec status, so if you want to go pirate you don't have to worry about paying anything but if your not and want to keep your sec up you will have to pay large sums of isk. i'm thinking like 25 million for every 0.1 sec status. that will make you think twice about committing a crime."
"lets see... 2 man corp recently you left... never been in any major corporations... hardly any history.post with your main : o pthat's all i can say to that."
"you realise that you posted the op with a character that is in ministry of war, right?post with your main."
"completely unenforceable."
"lol i think this what the op meant by trolls and idiots...here is one right here...in defence of the op you tried to state that he was alt purely cos he was in a npc corp.people leave corps then join npc, he may not want to be in a player corp.to be honest it's ppl like you who we need to get off the forums, angry teenagers with attitude.but personally signed, will it happen? tbh ccp don't seemto care about the trash posting that's why ppl use alternatives, and why ppl troll because ccp allows it. shame really. as a company ccp lacks any morality, but that comes fromthe top mr ccp ceo.ps. the only people who wouldn't support this are the trolls and douches and ain't that the truth."
"caod is the perfect example that prohibiting neutral alt posting does not magically make the forums any less horrible."
"no, here's why."
"real id!"
"don't even joke about that.@op the amount of **** poasting won't be affected by your proposal and there are legitimate reasons for alt posting. mainly that people want to discuss issues instead of having to suffer trolling and flaming because of their main's affiliations, and they don't want to suffer in/out of game consequenses for just posting on the forum."
"post with your main. (at cnc)oh and u mad?its funny... supporters are actually alt posters... hilarity.it might help your cases better if you post with your mains.funny enough... i'd support it too... but this whole proposal is nothing more than one big fat troll."
"you still looking like a 13 yr old teenager..keep saying the post with your mains..even tho this is.. you still look stupid...and the more you keep trolling the same old bs the more stupid and desperate to be listened to your looking..oh and your boring..really you are....zzzzz now run along this is adult talk..i think you need to ask mummy for a bed time story before you go to sleep, seeing you crave so much attention..."
"yepsilly proposal over a minor issue."
"i dont feel its a minor issue at all. its not just about the crap poasting at all. its about false supports, taking example about someone with 9 alts can make 9 supports, is that right?some with 9 alts can make 9 false references on a service thread. oh i forgot scamming is allowed! i guess by some of the posts and mittens quote, pretty much shows the state of these forums and the dont give a **** attitude...and the absolute idiots that play this game.. thats why it will stay the same old crap with the same old players. who would want to come into a community with 99.9% douches? whats new eh.."
"you should listen to the csm fireside chat where mittani pretty much says they (current csm) aren't going to bother with the ah anymore in favor of issues/features/etc that they actually feel ccp will do to show/illustrate csm 'gets things done'. i'm fairly sure if something important enough or interesting to their view is put up in ah they'd still look at maybe finding out ccp's stance on it but in essence the votes won't matter and really they never did. csm took up issues they believed in regardless of the votes, and in doing that all it meant was that all the csm would weigh in on the issue and only if they reached a majority vote would bother bringing up the issue with ccp who then still have the option of not doing it, saying it is too hard, etc and so on.tldr: the number of upvotes means nothing as no number of upvotes means stuff happens, look at the excellence thread."
"duuuuuuuuuuuude...nobody is saying that it isn't a problem, just that your proposed solution would do no big deal to alleviate the problem.other than the jokingly proposed realid, there would be no realistic way of enforcing it, and even realid would not be a completely fool-proof solution.you have the problem of first selecting which character out of 3 on the account is the main. you say that \"just pick the one with most sp\". well, what about people where they do have more than one big sp character on an account, and the \"main\" is actually the second highest sp count one ? besides, even if you would pick the right character most of the time, it would still do nothing about alt accounts.so how exactly do you propose to tackle the issue of multiple accounts ? it's not like ip identification would do much good, with a large portion of the playerbase playing from dynamic ips or from behind a nat/firewall. you'd have to get extremely intrusive to even begin to detect which account belongs to which real person, and then you have the issue of people that come over their friend's house and log into eve (because, hey, they both play eve)... will you now flag one person's main as the other's alt ?!?also, remember just how upset you were when somebody \"hinted\" that you might be an alt just because you're in a npc corporation... how do you think people would react all of a sudden when the character they feel is their main is \"caught\" by your system and branded an alt ?!?like i said, your proposed solution is bunk.the fact that the problem might be real is completely irrelevant.as long as you propose an inherently unenforceable measure, there's no point in discussing it much further."
"i can't support this...not that i wouldn't love to have alts stop posting but it just wouldn't work. if i wanted i could just post from a character on my second account...or third...or in some peoples cases the fourth, fifth, sixth and so on.besides that...who cares?"
"who cares? welcome to the internet. you sound like you belong in the idiots that play this game group."
"i support this topic!"
"i think something like a capital docking port would be cool that could only be place in systems of sov holding alliances, would be much like the player owned stations out in null, they should not be invulnerable though and should take some sort of upkeep that would not be cheap. only other option is maybe have a capital docking array for posses and a way to have an individual hangar for each person so no one steals, i dunno i'm just throwing ideas out there."
"i agree that super caps shouldn't be able to dock because they're meant for large alliances.on the other hand, we now have access to planets. maybe in the future we'll be able to land on them - giving us a realistically large enough place to \"land\" and \"store\" a super capital sized ship. of course, something like this should only be viable in systems which your alliance held sovereignty and payed a butt load of isk to build a \"super cap landing pad\".also, lol."
"bumping!railguns have terrible damage, tracking and fitting reqs."
"your suffering amuses meedit: also trebor's basically right"
"how did i miss this thread?mittens, quick, tell me what to post!"
"post something about how your ideas are entirely your own and you're not being coerced by me in any way, shape or form - you just happen to agree with mepeople love that ****~"
"*blank stare* i am my own person.. i am in no way under the mind control of the mittens.srsly guys.. troll more this is true entertainment"
"my eleged ceomy eleged csm<3<3<3"
"i think he's just sore because he's in the wrong alliance."
"i, for one, am quite happy with the current lineup and especially the chairman of the csm.the player base got what it deserved (for not taking more of an interest), but it also got what it needed... because, let's face it, this particular csm will probably be the one most likely to actually push some of the better stuff, since it presents a mostly united front.so, sorry, op, totally and completely not supported."
"perhaps it didn't occur to you, but there are people outside of alliance blocks that support the candidates they put forward. the first 5 csm's had their chance. now it's time for a real csm to represent the real eve players."
"lmaochairman lmao actually."
"the idea of a democracy is lost on some people."
"let's have a vote to abolish democracy !"
"****stupid colour; didn't read."
"first of all, this is a troll. second, thats the way democracy works, deal with it kid."
"i disagree. this isn't voting for a president where it's just a popularity contest race for 1 leader. csm is more like voting for congressmen. a proxy, who is supposed to be representing his/her people. in these cases, each state has a certain number of seats that they can fill depending on their population. so what csm is missing is some sort of tie to the constituents that the representatives are supposed to be representing. for example if say, 70% of the population in eve live in empire space, then 70% of csm seats should be from there and so forth.the problem is how you can register people to a constituency. i'm not sure how this can be done, but one way may be to instead divide up new eden into corporation/alliance constituents. at a given census time, all corp membership is recorded and the populations of each alliance/corp tallied. sort them first by alliance, then sort them by empire/pirate faction (using perhaps the top standing faction they are friendly with). evenly subdivide the total population of new eden by the number of seats on the csm, and every multiple of the number each group of constituents has earns them 1 seat for that group.what we want to achieve here is proper representation of the population, and not the upholding of the elite establishment by large alliances.founding fathers once had the same problem, and we all know where that ended up."
"populism =/= democracy.it was an issue that i brought up when the final draft of the proposal paper (the one that went to the nytimes) was shown to me at fanfest and i am quite suprised that it took 6 cycles to reach this stage. the point is, a streight up numbers voting system like this does not reprisent minorities (like fw) that will never reach the organizational and numerical advantage that voting blocks such as 0.0 (which completely dominate this year and will dominate from this year onwards until they lose interest - i.e. it becomes useless). i suppose its not a problem for societies that don't have (or do not recognize/care about minorities such as iceland and switzerland)."
"you're assuming two things. first, every member of 0.0 votes for a 0.0 candidate, and two, 0.0 candidates don't add aspects of fw/highsec/lowsec changes to their platforms to get votes outside their normal powerblocs (lol, politics...).unless you can prove otherwise, mittens (and other members of the csm) weren't elected just due to their good looks and charm. they were elected based on platforms and their ability to get their message out to the voters. people that did well in this election cycle actually took the time and ~effort~ to get their constituents out to vote for them (or candidates with like-minded interests). \"minority\" candidates have the same opportunities as \"major\" candidates and simply squandered it (for the most part). for example, i didn't hear about any pie. candidates in the current election cycle. did they have a decent platform?you're also assuming the age-old fallacy that all goons in eve are in goonswarm and that all goons run around like mindless children.besides my ranting, come on...who could distrust mittens? just look at his adorable little smile, his sweet, flowing hair, his soothing voice... :swoon:"
"\"how many times in our history as a species has a \"lasting\" peace been made when limited resources and/or religion/ideology has been at stake?\"i see where you're coming from, pretty much never. but i also like to think that we're capable of progressing beyond that.now i have some questions for you:when was the last time in history that we had the ability to communicate almost instantly with any other person in the world? when was the last time in history that we, as a species, could look at someone a little different from us but know that they are not so different from us, that they feel the same things, desire the same securities and tolerance, fear the same injustices?when was the last time we had the ability to move massive amounts of resources from one corner of the globe to another?when was the last time language barriers were as simple to breakdown as copy-pasting a line of text into a box and hitting \"translate\"?how many times in our history have we tried war only to realize that what we gain often comes at a much greater cost?and how many times have we actually truly tried to maintain a lasting peace?einstein: \"insanity: doing the same thing over and over again and expecting different results.\" we keep making war thinking it will lead to peace, and i know that aristotle said \"we make war so that we may live in peace\", and there are a number of others i could quote who insist that peace may only come from conflict, but all of those who i would quote come from a time when the concept of \"an eye for an eye\" was revolutionary and progressive.i realize that this is a game, but i'm wondering why we can't show the world that we know that and try to make a difference despite it. to pull our heads out of the game for a day to make a statement to the world that despite all our different walks of life we can band together, no matter our country of origin or birth language or faith.if 1 woman screaming **** in libya can be the final push to incite an entire nation into rebellion, think what tens of thousands of people across the world can do by making a show of peace."
"or maybe more people who play this game need to realize what world they actually live in - and do whatever they can to make it a place where future generations can coexist."
"it's a possibility, i'll give you that. however, it's also equally possibile that we'll wipe ourselves out.irrelevant. none of this has to do with human nature (which, no matter how hard we try to suppress or get around, is still there). - right now, we have the ability to communicate with [almost] every person around the world. hell, we've had this ability for almost a century (ex. mail, telegraph, direct phone lines, etc.). all this technology has allowed nations and groups to form up logistical efforts faster and more effectively (though, no group has made more use of this than the military).- never. racism, bigotry, slavery/human trafficking, religious fearmongering/\"superiority\" are all facts of life today (as they have been for centuries) and i don't see any of them going away so long as there is profit and \"weak-minded\" zealots to fuel them.- since the late 1800s we've been able to move large amounts of resources (both for need and want). today, in the early 21st century, we've merely 'perfected' this practice. and yet we still have global famines, poverty, and starvation.- until recently (last 10 years or so) few of the \"common man\" could translate and read/hear what the \"common man\" of another language were saying. yes, with the advent of translation technology we can now understand each other better than ever. however... the results (which can be quite clearly seen on the eve boards here between us, the chinese, and russians) can best be described as a \"flame war\" with very little civility on who is dumber/more brainwashed/smarter. because a 'peaceful' game is a 'static' game and thus not real interesting in the long run (not the mention that 'peace' would almost certainly crash the eve economy which depends on ships and mods getting blown up).how does libya have anything to do with eve????? anyways... my points are this:eve is a game based upon the darker elements of humankind... elements that we are all quite familiar with (ex. greed, nationalism, oligarchies, despots, piracy, etc). the game takes these dark elements and creates it's own reality by saying \"what if.\"more than that... we are 'immortal.' we cannot die. and without that \"final of final\" restraints there is no reason to hold ourselves back from conflict."
"well... i'm immortal.and peace is bad for business.that is one more reason than i need.there is also fact that blowing other ships is quite a show. and the crew... well, human life is so cheap that one has to wonder if it is even worth remembering."
"i think that the start date of your toon should be removed because its better if its all a mystery. it should only show the current corp your in at the moment with dates and so on, but if u go to another corp then that one will show up within all players view...i mean what do i know...its just an idea. i just like the mystery as to how old are you really? also, you dont have to se the texts of people always calling you a noob all the time...serves them right..lol"
"be quiet noob!edit:first...probably last :-)"
"why? age really has nothing to do with anything."
"so you want to remove employment history. not supported."
"1.0"
"nerf it.and nerf jumpbridges too."
"unerf it !!!! how are some of us to make isk when you nerfed it. i think what you ( ccp ) did sucks !!!!"
"drakes too :p"
"unnerf it."
"unnerf itreluctant cuz i like the idea behind it, but ruins any chance for smaller alliances to build themselves up in null sec (and make renting system more ccpized) which was the whole reason behind dominion"
"exellent change, keep it."
"keep the changes, people have become too used to being spoon fed."
"after seeing already a major shrink in nc fleet sizes i say to you dear ccp:awsum patch, keep up the good work \o/"
"to everyone who agrees with the nerf: go make your own thread - this thread is for people who disagree with the nerf.un-nerf it. was a poor decision made for even worse reasons."
"good change.. if the space you have blows now move somewhere better."
"unerf it!, all null sec is dangerous and should be equally profitable!"
"make outpost stations destructable so the carebears have to fight for their stuffs"
"agreed, this is the worst change that has happened all year. the point of eve is to have billions of isk and be successful, but that's impossible with the sanctum nerf. 0.0 was fine as it was, the sanctums need to return so that people can continue to make lots of isk to fill the huge fleet amount demands.unnerf it."
"think i need a bigger bucket to collect the nullbear tears."
"people who say keep the nerf make your own forumn this is a precise forumnbtw if we stop making money in null sec industry will go down which will mean more high sec prices for you hulks won't be 200 mil anymore they'll be 500 again. just expect a rise in prices"
"unnerf it, the change was incredibly short-sighted, ******ed and just horribly bad."
"nerf it moarrly these ppl cant even check to support their topic ,they are clearly unable to decide what is good for them or not--> nerf it more pls"
"unerf it"
"the nerf was a good start, while you are at it, remove level 4 missions from empire. nobody should be able to farm that kind of isk hiding under concord's skirt."
"unerf it"
"unnerf it"
"unerf it please"
"unerf it! if an alliance can raise the isk involved, and logistically manage to get i-hubs and upgrades out here, then they damn well deserve a decent reward from doing so. it still doesnt make your space safe at the end of the day, usually more attractive to the enemy in most cases."
"you people disagreeing with this are stupid. it's like if ccp decided your mission tengu's were way to good at lvl 4's and just removed them from the game without compensation. people are ****ed that their upgrades are worthless now. having to haul them in a freighter is a major pita and all that work is lost with this nerf. also, without being able to farm sanctums the potential isk/hr for 0.0 drops significantly. sure theres still exploration, pi, mining, belt ratting, all that crap but none of it compares to having unlimited personal missions in the complete safety of highsec (suicide gankers blablabla fly a cheaper ship). it shouldnt be mandatory for everyone in 0.0 to either jump clone to highsec or have an alt that can run lvl 4's in highsec. either a. move lvl 4's to null and low quality lvl 4's to lowsec. highsec gets 1's and 2's, lowsec gets 3's and low quality 4's, 0.0 gets 4's and 5's. this isnt \"forcing\" anyone to nullsec, you simply just have to run crappier missions or move to lower security space, following the risk/reward balance eve is based on. also nerf un-probeable tengu's buy raising the probing strength not nerfing sensor strength. b. keep all the carebears happy and undo the changes. sure its just as stupid as it was before but whatev's it kinda worked. now ccp, if you want to break up coalitions then get rid of jump bridges and presto, no more 1500 man fleet fights, more of a trickle of ships comming in to defend an area. it forces allainces to focus forces and allows a lot of crappy space to be open and free for potential small allainces to take to and grow in. boom, you guys should hire me and all your problems would be gone with this game. lets let the carebear whining commence about how unfair this is and threats about how many people will leave eve if you nerf highsec. how about you try out 0.0 before knocking it. pvp isnt much different than pve, you just click on red squares. not that many people will quite eve and the people that will quite were not going to stick with the game anyway."
"ccp did this with my whole caldari race... :( poor caldari only left is the noobish drake and falcon :(now everybody fliest op matar:="
"tengu, falcon, drake, raven, gila, crow, hawk, caracal (sometimes), kitsune, ok maybe you got a point but gallente: ishtar, dominix, taranis, myrm(maybe), proteus. caldari is pretty sweet in that they are rather versitle. most of their ships can both active and passive tank, can be nanoed and missiles always hit. not to mention the ungodly range of ecm and heavy missiles."
"rly crow?? rly?? caracal omg ??? gila ?:o , hawk no no more jokes pls , kitsune? yeah ea-s are crap,tengu cool another pve ship ... oh and the raven is there anybody still using that ****?:o"
"hello. i have one suggestion which in my game will improve at least for some people. by purchase of the lp store, you can give the opportunity to buy larger quantities at once. for example, i have 180 000 lp and lp of turning the sisters combat probe (1800lp) and it is up to a hundred you click accept. this would give you the option to buy the thing at the same time hundreds of times and it would save time and problems with the lags during the buying.ps: sorry for my english a low."
"yes, this has been requested many times and still hasn't been addressed. so still supported!"
"someone should slip this one on a note to team bff."
"old idea and still universally supported i think. it reduces server load, makes it more user friendly and wouldn't take but 2 minutes to program."
"yup."
"yes!+1/signeddu et ccp!"
"hey everyone,i would like to ask if the csm could put in a word to ccp about drone navigation. i love using drones and right now there is one small thing that bugs me a lot and that is that i can not launch my drones with a shortcut. i can basically do everything needed once they are launched, attack, pull back, orbit and return to dronebay, this can all be done with shortcuts, however, launching drones still needs to be done manually.i would like to ask if the csm could put this feature on their list, it's a really minor change and it would add so much more to the playability, for me atleast.greetz,joyana"
"while i'd like this as well, there's some aspects to be discussed: the shortcuts would probably work on a per-drone-group basis. but those groups are tied to a ship, so shortcuts would end up being ship-specific. not a problem, but something to be aware of.so i'd suggest reworking the drone grouping to allow for two new things:a) allow managing drone groups while dockedb) allow adding shortcuts to drone groups and store the setting (on the server or client?)"
"supported.if i were to select all my drones in the bay right now and launch all of them, i would either get the 5 or if there r more, a random 5. at the very least, this should be a shortcut as a quick and temporary band-aid."
"interacting with drones needs to be streamlined across the board. both for the host and the target."
"i proposes better linux support. this would entail having one dev tweaking the client to run better under wine. im not asking for a full port, just some attention to a player base that is at least as big as the os x player base (assuming a player distribution similar to cross platform games)."
"of course i support my proposal."
"mac client has a much larger user base and hasnt been fixed since like apocrypha. dominion really ****ed us mac users over."
"how about better cross platform support then?"
"before, you used to be able to interact with your agent in more ways than 'accept' and 'decline'. take a scenario for example:\"hey joe, i need you to go run 5 copies of this manuscript for me.\"\"accept\"\"thanks, and yes, i'd love some coffee too.\"versus\"hey joe, i need you to go run 5 copies of this manuscript for me.\"\"yeah sure, want me to get some coffee?\"\"thanks, and yes, i'd love some coffee too.\"in the real world you don't literally say accept or decline like a robot to your betters when they assign you a task. this is immersion breaking and even makes some of the mission text not make sense. consider incarna too, when it is implemented soon the accept/decline method will really need to be worked on so that your character does not seem like a robot in interactions.in the end, you're still clicking somewhere to initiate a mission. bringing back the quirky responses would just make sense."
"ships that are not in combate can freely self destruct. (would be happy with a 10 second count down)ships with any form of pvp agression cannot perform the self destruct action while in space."
"translation: when a pirate holds a target hostage, if the target doesn't eject or pay the 100 mil+ ransom that he doesn't have to honor, he can be held indefinitely until he finally gives in out of boredom and/or frustration of waiting long enough and having better things to do than stay glued to a screen the whole day."
"denial of fitting intel and loot is a valid tactic, so no. the self-destructed ship is still just as dead as it would be if you blew it up, you realise?"
"hello togetheri would like to discuess an idea... so, here's an example:you want to buy a ship from the contracts, fitted with multiples modules, rigs and drones.if you now check the prerequisites of the assembled ship, then you'll only see the skills you need to fly that specific ship... no word about the modules, rigs and drones. this works perfect if you are buying a \"naked\" ship fresh from the market and assemble it.here's an example about a retriever:"
"this feature already exists but only for saved/linked fittings. would make perfect sense to have that for contracted ships as well."
"discussion of moderation removed as per the forums rules."
"supported."
"maybe just require standings with the local factions for reps. ie the caldari like me so they try and keep my ships alive when someone else aggresses me. maybe they will stay out of the fight if the attacker also has high standings...it doesnt negate suicide ganking but it certainly doesnt make it easier."
"i have a counter proposal. just make the system scanning array a usable pos mod like a gun. make it sit outside of the pos shields just like a gun so it can launch probes. make it require the same skills and possibly high scanning skills as well. then boost the array's probe strength by a large amount.this way pilots still have to work for their intel and scanning gets faster for people who invest in a system.this in my opinion would be a win win for everyone. but seriously. this mechanic is working as it was intended. you get a much higher income rate from exploration sites and therefore an hour of work (really do you constantly have 50+ sigs in your system) should give you more reward than usual.ps. this is not wow and ccp is not required to give you a map to your cookie. (i know that you dont want warp ins but then again a normal map doesnt walk for you either.)"
"not supported.and i'm really curious how you can consider yourself a relatively new player at 'nearly' the two year mark.the learning implants cost what they cost because it's an open market. their cost is dirt cheap because the market is flooded with the damn things from all the missioner's doing materials for war prep. having ccp make changes to make the implants even cheaper would be just a nerf to high-sec storyline mission rewards (which can be pretty horrible already).as for jump clones? a one day old player could join one of the jump clone corporations and install a jump clone. l1 of the skill takes a brand new player 8 minutes without implants, and a million isk which could be a heavy toll, but that's neither here nor there. or they could simply join a corporation full of missioner's that offer jump clone services. once you've got a jc installed somewhere you have a perfectly safe spot to hide your implants during war decs or pvp operations.and... i doubt either of these changes would convince the afk warbears to undock and try \"having a go at it\".//edit: inb4 someone supports the idea so they could create new characters to get a leg up on cheap learning implants to make some easy isk."
"on april 16th at 20:00 csm 6 held its first of many fireside chats as outlined in our recent devblog."
"how do you feel about incursions."
"why do you list the anomaly change as a scandal?"
"because hilmar said there would be more communication about how things were going to change, and that anom nerf was deployed without communicating to any of the csms?or wasn't that tinfoilhatty enough for you?"
"because they need something to rage about?"
"while it would be nice if the csm could make a difference.everyone knows ccp disregards the csm as and when it feels like, paying it only lip service in there plans.the anom changes are a very good example of this disregard"
"temporarily moved to general discussion for more... discussion...thanks to the council of stellar management members for this unique and important initiative. here's hoping that everyone who spends time in new eden finds some time to listen to this recording, even if just while mining or en route somewhere or waiting around for your fleet to assemble.in order to foster wider discussion, we'd love to see this link shared and issues talked about in a wider arena on your corp message boards, the #tweetfleet and #csm6 twitter hashtags and here in this thread. the feedback loops are important for the csm itself to better represent you, and the more data, obviously, the better."
"yes we can give feed back on this threadi listened to it live and liked the info it contained. hope everyone gives it a listen as well."
"yes, this is why it was labeled as a scandal, i believe it was covered in detail during the mitanni's talk."
"i love the idea and am thankful that there's a recording. it will give me something to do on my nearly three-hour drive to work tomorrow morning. thanks guys, looking forward to it!"
"^^^"
"\"herp derp industry expanshun??? u haz awesum orca so shut up!!!!11!\"......"
"please give a nsfw warning when linking to audio file of mittani performing auto-fellatio."
"this is one of the main reasons you can never find csm info. cuz it's in the wrong place. a noob who has just figured out that the csm section on the eve main page is utter crap and that he needs to visit the forums where there is a specific csm section will now not find this thread there.... being completely oblivious of it's existance, he will prolly never see it...."
"it was covered in detail during the mittani's talk (multiple times in fact, i believe). marconus orion is just one of those guys."
"i did...file size is approx 50 mblength is about 2 hoursexplicit language"
"maybe try checking first...when ccp manifest moved the thread he left a reference to it so it actually is posted in the right place, and its posted here too (for a few weeks)"
"nah, you misread the trolling draco. it's not \"hey, there's nsfw language here, mark it appropriately!\" it's \"lowell! mittens is blowing himself, hey, everybody, i'm clever, i'm saying mittens is blowing himself!\""
"oh lol yea i failed.. i was internet reading.. read the first few words and moved on.. oh well.."
"interesting stuff, thanks for posting the audio.on the \"industrial expansion\", at least some recognition was given that the original plans were shelved in favour of stackless io, and that the whole idea hasn't been totally forgotten about.there were so many ideas floating around at the time, largely rumours and false hopes, that some digging around on what the expansion would really have been, and what may be expected in the (hope not too distant) future could be a useful thing for the csm to ask ccp about, if only to manage expectations out here, and get you guys clued up on what was shoved under the carpet back then."
"well this hardly encourages people to post to the csm, or instills confidence that they will be listened to."
"yes, please give the leaders of certain alliances a heads up on all game changes so they can use them to their advantage in game. if ccp did have to run all game changes by the csm first, i think it should only be fair that the rest of the eve player base have an opportunity to see the proposed changes at the same time."
"excellent topic, i'm downloading the mp3 right now. could we hope a total debriefing for those who, like me, aren't amazing english-spoken people ? :)edit ---wow ... man you've convince me ... csm6 rocks !"
"what the hell was that?! no one apart from mittani was allowed to speak?!"
"i threatened to strangle anyone who spoke out against me - through the internet."
"pretty sure there'll be a grace period between when the changes are published till they go live.i strongly doubt you're going to get much more transparency than that, certainly not so far as to seeing each and every draft of every proposal that ccp employees think up.this was covered in the session, at least once."
"no wonder ccp doesn't take the csm seriously when the chairman starts insulting the intelligence of anyone who doesn't ask a patsy question."
"so... any plans to make this more accessible to those of us that have hearing problems... and any idea roughly how long \"some time\" may be??"
"after i'm done with some more certification exams that end on wednesday, i will happily transcribe the audio for five billion isk."
"um, no. a paper thin 'reason' was given, but the fact that even when mittens was asked questions about things he admitted to knowing nothing about he didn't even think to hand it over to one of the others.why? doesn't he trust the other candidates to speak sensibly? he is only one voice on the csm after all."
"i like the csm's focus on improving the way ccp maintains the larger game vs. focusing on specific hot button issues. diemost, dreads, hybrids, ewar, supercarriers, fw, mining and any other ship, module or feature complaint are symptoms of the bigger problem that is the lack of ongoing itteration by ccp. as the mittani said, this game is full of 'sucking wounds'. focusing on any one of those wounds isn't focusing on the bigger problem. team bff has shown some real results from the thousand papercuts perspective and has actually improved gameplay, the only thing players actually see. i can only hope that ccp's management is open to taking that process to the next level.as a benifit, by directly focusing on improving ccp's process, and improving eve indirectly, the csm can avoid the appearance of bias on specific issues. anything that improves the csm's legitimacy to the players is imo a good thing."
"but they did speak. and they also said that they would have no hesitation speaking up if something was said they disagreed with or was not covered. so what's the problem again?"
"a combination of the dunning-kruger effect and the prevalence of lead based paint."
"nvm, i'm an idiot"
"interesting talk, made me re-evaluate my preconceptions of goons/nc (mittens has all the braincells)really like the focus and the direction. you showed an understanding that this is a business you are dealing with and retaining that concept is key to successful negotiations. i hope that you will not get sidetracked.well done"
"dang, now i have to start thinking mittani is secretly evil instead of openly evil. one of the things talked about was documentation. i just wanted to point out that eve is quite well documented, even officially, through the star team. the fact that the star team's on going official documentation seems to receive less official support than some 3rd party one concerns me. why does the in-game help screen send you to the knowledge base that ccp claimed was going to be retired when the evelopedia came out? why does that search not send new players to the much more useful evelopedia? in what other ways are the isd teams (which have been in place a lot longer than the csm) not being supported by ccp?"
"i'm taking a wait and see posture right now. because i joined before the election, i couldn't vote and rightly so--no complaints there. i think that if the goons and their allies in the csm understand that they now represent all of the eve playerbase--big nullsec alliances, small nullseccers, wildcatters, lowsec pirates, pvpers, and dwellers, and yes, hisec carebears as well, then they'll do ok. if not and this is nothing more than an elaborate goon prank, then from what i understand about the csm there's very little real damage they can do. the csm has no actually authority as far as setting game policies is concerned--it merely acts as an intermediary and advisory body between the players and ccp with both groups being able to ignore csm if they feel the need to do so. ccp doesn't have to follow the csm's recommendations and we players do not have to go through the csm to express our ideas, recommendations, or concerns to ccp.basically, it's up to the mittani and the other goons as to how they want to shape the csm. if they're truly interested in representing the interests of the entire eve community, then that's great. if not, don't worry, no real damage will be done as this csm will be nothing more than a series of \"high level meetings with low level thinking.\""
"if eve was a real place the one ship which each faction would have developed is an anti capital ship and weapon. this class of ship {perhaps a second black ops ship for each race} would be able to sneak up to a capital ship and blow it up, so i imagine it should be skill intensive to fly and use, maybe skills like cloaking 5, black ops 5 ect. i would also make the ship extra vunerable to all none capital ships, its only defence would be the ability to fly cloaked. it would work by flying cloaked to 0 or 500m of its target, decloaking and activating its weapon destroying itself and the target ship. the time delay between decloaking and weapon activation being reduced by a skill this is to give a defensive ship a little time to defend the target ship. though i would also make it almost impossible for capital ships to target or defend against it without support. this ship would obviously have a large impact on gameplay a single titan or mothership being vunerable to a single pilot, capital blobs needing frigs and cruises for defence against the ship might make 0.0 far more accessable for smaller groups ."
"wrong forum, should post in the assembly hall"
"they have two. practically 3. the titan, the dread, and what's ususally used, is the super carrier."
"1) you can't read.2) you still can't read. clearly says i put it in the wrong forum and i found it funny enough to post."
"purpose specific bays are an integral part of the ship constructs since at least 2008 - the code is all there to use them. plans to move ammo into such bays for balance and gameplay have been .. abandoned. this one could easily be added to the list for ccp's future balance dood.adding multiple crystals to each laser sounds more like something that would require coding to support, and is a real change. ask for stuff that's easy for them to do and you are more likely to get a result. i.e. no art, no design, no coding ... just tweaking numbers is easy and takes longer to talk about and document than to do and qa.unfortunately ccp have no business process dedicated to iterative balancing like we all expect from other games companies ... yet."
"this topic should be moved to the assembly hall"
"it's very simple.let me guess more personal attacks, more logical fallacies, more alleging that showing how you lie and troll constantly makes someone a \"forum troll at large\"... but absolutely no answer as to what you're demanding tth do to stop opinions in an opinion column.as i said, providing you with enough rope to hang yourself, you've complied easily. you still can't point out what your actual demand is that would have tth stopping mittani from publishing opinions in an opinion column, other than stopping his column. that's because you're a liar and a troll, and of course that's your demand. if you weren't a liar and a troll, you could state \"why, that's incorrect finn! my actual demand is that...\"instead, you just lie and troll some more and hang yourself with the rope i provided. even allowing you the chance to explain what, you claim, you really meant just leaves you proving that you're lying and trolling, again. it would be so simple to prove me wrong \"no, you're wrong finn, the steps i would expect tth to take in order to stop publishing opinions i don't like in opinions columns are x, y and z.\" except there are no such demands. i'm correct and logical necessity demands that the only way to stop opinions in an opinion column is to remove it, and you can only troll about it. which is why \"no, my actual demands are...\" but that's because you simply do not post at me without lying and trolling. like your lie that you weren't making this about a tth, followed by ten quotes of your own words where you made it about tth... and after being caught (yet again) lying in order to support your trolling, your quickly changed to subject with another lie that you were trolling with. and when it was proven that you deliberately took the second of two lines and lied that the first didn't exist, in order to troll, then you claimed that maybe the article had been edited. figured out yet what your \"real\" demand is of tth so that they stop publishing opinions in an opinion column? no? just going to troll some more?prove me wrong. we all know why you can't."
"a ccp person for csm vice secretary? what is the reasoning behind that decision? did none of the other delegates step up for the position?if it had to be a ccp person, i would have thought it should be one of the advocates or a game designer. of course, this position doesn't ever get called upon to ever do much anyway. but i assume it means that sreegs will be attending all csm working meetings and ready to fulfill secretarial roles in case treb can't. glad to see treb as secretary btw.on a related note, what have you decided to do about working meetings and documenting them to the public? you've said you're not going to be dealing with assembly hall proposals in the same way that previous csm's did but won't you still be having regular meetings from which players will be provided minutes/logs of some kind? or is it all going to be audio meetings only?"
"we will wait and see"
"with darius johnson (ex-ceo of goonswarm) as vice secretary, this allows better control of the csm./tinfoil?"
"i didn't mean to imply that, but i did wonder whether it was a troll or not. in case not, i asked the questions i did out of actual curiosity."
":cripes:"
"the vice-secretary position has been left unfilled at this time. apparently, nobody wanted to be in my shadow -- which, as anyone who has seen my ass can testify, is a large one indeed."
"you are truly the alex jones of eve-o"
"i had a funny feeling people were going to take this literally."
"when were the officers chosen and on what format was the discussion? i don't recall seeing anything in the official channels regarding this...."
"yeah, strange how we expect our elected representatives not to troll us in \"official\" communications. i doubt i'm the only one who prefers to just get straightforward information and not be left guessing about the facts. also, my other questions still want an answer. if the answer exists somewhere on eve o, kindly point me to it? thanks."
"i'd also like to know where i can find the minutes for the meeting where these officers were appointed. i'm also disappointed that nobody on csm6 is willing to step up and be vice secretary - who will take minutes in case trebor is unable to?"
"why does it matter?whether you are informed or ignorant, you can't actually do anything with the information you do or do not have.unless you count making bad posts on the internet."
"try to be less goon and get out of your dipers.the question is valid if a voter asks someone who is supposed to represent him or her about certain information which isn't closed under the nda.and making bad posts on the internet we gladly leave to goons as they prove over and over."
"speaking of bad posts it matters greatly, because we can only assess the quality and performance of the csm members if we can see how they act and come to their decisions. so you can in fact do something with this information."
"so far the csm election was more a popularity contest than it was an election.also the qa looked to me more like an ego boost event where mittani speaks like he has been interested in csm ever before csm-6 (not).i'd say mynxee and dierdra made valid points.please don't turn the csm, where others before you worked hard for, into a muppetshow.show some respect to the community.also this new non-open communication through skype is something i have to put questionmarks with concerning transparancy.final words:its an emberassment to see that the winners of the popularity contest (csm 6) that there's no one else willing to be vice secretary.gonna be a long year"
"csm6 did not feel that it was necessary to elect a vice secretary and so as an act of humor we decided to appoint ccp sreegs, it was pure humor, nothing else. i also find it amusing how with one hand you can complain that csm6 is constantly connected, yet simultaneously you attack our legitimacy and or seriousness about it. we have composed our objectives and are solidified on a level that no previous csm in history ever has been.the csm is also entitled to a degree of privacy when it comes to internal deliberation. it is literally no different than the use of the internal csm forums. we routinely discuss topics which are generally not ready for public presentation."
"we decided on the officers over a period of days, and we'll rubberstamp them when we have a formal meeting, but wanted to get the news out.csm6 will probably have fewer formal meetings that csm5, but communicate more tightly on a day-to-day basis, and do more direct communications. it remains to be seen if this is a better idea or not, but the noobs on csm6 deserve the chance to try new approaches, just like the noobs on csm5 did."
"the least 'we' can do is to connect the current csm with all former csm at our csm continuation channel if csm-6 is interested.mynxee still has the operator status of that channel."
"to be honest, i don't know if ccp sreegs can hold down such a critical post effectively. we're going to have to evaluate his employment on an ongoing basis, to ensure that the crucial position of vice secretary is given the respect and consideration that the position deserves."
"we were relatively well connected with the former csm, and trebor has been extremely helpful in guiding us through the process. he's an agile and talented individual who's offered sage advice on the process we go through."
"then i'll happily await the minutes and the official appointment of these positions, and i hope that in the mean time someone will step up to be vice-sec. i fully agree that the csm needs a place to discuss things in private (whether that is ingame or on the forums or on skype), but ultimately decisions and the motivation for those decisions need to be made in public (formal meetings) for the sake of transparency and trust in the csm."
"i know trebor, met him at csm summit in december and personally i was in csm-2.what you are probably not aware of is that we do have a csm continuity channel. the csm noobs (using trebor's words) are probably not aware we have such a channel :pedit: the eve-csm channel has been officially approved by the almighty lord xhagen"
"there was no formal meeting. after a week within the term beginning the chair can simply appoint titles at his discretion, or hold a vote via the csm mailing list; we got together briefly in skype after the q&a and handed them out by consensus. csm6 isn't particularly interested in titles beyond the ones 'with teeth', we're more concerned with getting things done."
"i totally gave up the vice chair position because meissa is a big cry baby. true story."
"sad to see mittani and co already making this whole thing into a big in joke. listened to the whole of the q&a and was struck by the fact that it was depressing to see it all being so one sided, and now even the announcement of officers is done purely to amuse mittani's corpmates."
"more details please..."
"i promise you i am alone in the csm, in not kissing the nether regions of mittani. they are lined up like followers adoring the budda. makes me sick. i am definitely outsider on the csm this year, which is good as i won't catch space herpes from them. bunch of hypocrite windbags if you ask me. remember all the candidates promises? kiss them goodbye. botters/macros get stopped? all credit to ccp in the extremely unlikely event it happens. most of csm mostly so far looking to get in bed with ccp and the ever widening circle-jerk continues. uaxdeath and kruton are seemingly immune to the ph balanced perfume of mittens though, maybe next year as full members we will form dissent coalition within csm. sorry carebears-your concerns are going unnoticed."
"wow. bunch of try hard trolls in csm this year."
"told you i'd resign if i didn't get it... i got it, it's all that matters. i deserve some epeen!"
"one of the amusing big-ass holes in the csm white paper is that the csm is not required to have any meetings at all.if there are meetings, the secretary is required to document them and publish minutes to the players. but meetings themselves? nope, nothing in the white paper saying they have to happen. it just lays out a \"recommended guideline\" for meeting frequency. it also says the chair and vice chair \"may\" summon the other representatives to these meetings. and of course, there's notes about the sorts of things that should happen at these meetings, if they happen.interestingly, it also specifies that a meeting is only valid if there are seven representatives present. so mittens can pull together five other reps on skype, they can chat about something of note, and then break up a) without it being considered a meeting, and b) without the secretary having to document it.so, what csm6 is doing is all perfectly legal."
"dude, you should have paid a little more attention... agreeing on a position after days of continuous discussion does not make us pushovers. in addition to which we already were mostly in agreement with what needs fixing anyway (not necessarily how, but that's where the discussion came in, progress was made and compromises were reached).mittani has absolutely no hold on me, what does he have that i want? what could he threaten me with (i'm already shooting goons in-game)?i'll be very happy to listen to any and all the so-called \"carebear issues\", and if you had paid attention, darius, you'd know that there's actually no opposition from the 0.0 delegates to the highsec/lowsec proposals. because those are not their primary concern doesn't mean they are incapable of holding constructive conversations about them, agreeing with the topics raised and supporting them if they're reasonable.but if anyone thinks the 0.0 delegates are going to block non-0.0 proposals that have merit, you'll just have to wait and see.and either way, my evemail is open and i accept all convos if anyone has an ah proposal they want to bring the attention of the csm to."
"no, my initial complaint was that \"communication on demand\" is not something the csm should do.i have no idea what made you think someone asked for impotent raging or useless posting."
"for those looking for the discussion thread about the csm 6 fireside chat, it is here, temporarily been moved to general discussion for more ... discussion.you should had done it differently.1. keep the original thread where it is supposed to be (jita park)2. copy the qa session into general discussion (being locked) and notify people that they can respond in jita park (make a link to jita parkwhat you did now is the world upside down.(you brought the mountain to mohammed and not mohammed to the mountain)please fix this"
"interesting idea certainly.what about people (people are elected not the character) with characters in null and empire, do they have to pick one seat or contest for two different seats.what about the population difference between e.g caldari and amarr regions? could a caldari pilot vote for an amarrian seat candidate if they so chose?although it's a great idea, eve is a bit too fluid to trust you'll be in the same area for the next 12 months."
"the first meeting confirmed they have absolutely no interest in the overall health of eve."
"in your opinion. in my opinion, after attending the meeting and talking to some of them on their public channel after it they have no other interest than the health of eve.in my opinion, one of us is a sad, bitter, and cowardly troll.feel free to join members of the community on text, on voice, on out of game forums, and even on comms channels where our real life identities are revealed for constructive discussions on the future of this game; a game many of us have been playing for five or more years and want to enjoy for years to come. or keep on trolling anonymously .. whatever."
"here is the audio from todays fireside chat:csm.evereport.comyou can directly download the mp3 file here."
"i have 12 labs on one pos and i royaly hate sorting threw them to find the lowest avaible slot for each grouping like me, pe, copy yah a royal pain with multiple toons and such. would love to see them grouped for each pos."
"please, bigger fuel bays. it wont unbalance stuff."
"supported naturally."
"keep up the good work ccp these ppl play too much anyway.give this game a new imo like changing the name to matari online or something."
"i'm sure none of you have any opinions on this and i personally think everything is fine just as it is so this is probably going to be this post and nothing else, sorry to waste your time.ok now that the laughter has died down we all have some strong opinions on this subject and i'd like this thread to encompass everything from individual ships to how they interact in fleets. the sky is the limit. i want your ideas on what is messed up and why you think it is messed up but also i'd like to hear from you what you think works particularly well and why. we need every bit of information you can throw our way because while i think the the ferox is an industrious ship that is capable of taking on all comers i fear some of you feel this might not be the case. arm us with your best rants and most thoughtful ideas so we can spend hours slamming our shoes on the table reciting our best poetry on why assault frigs truly are worthless and how they can be improved to be better utilized in small and big fleet engagements. maybe you thought up a new way that fleet mechanics can be designed so your special snowflake electronic attack frig can be integrated into large fleet combat if only x was changed. don't let me down friends! we got a lot of work ahead of us on this one and i want your input so we can attack this properly."
"in b4 the rage on \"fix gallente\""
"in may, we'll be discussing methods of improving nullsec industrialization with ccp at the ccp/csm summit. in this thread, we welcome the community to offer advice and counsel.this is something which we discussed at the fanfest roundtables at length; right now nullsec is entirely dependent on importing virtually everything from jita, and exports only moon goo. meanwhile, nonsov small-gang entities can only 'contest' the empires through the sov system, which does not interest them. industrialization would provide both 'crops' to grow in nullsec, and provide targets for smaller entities to set on fire to make life miserable for empires beyond tcus."
"the things that keepb ppl from bulding stuffin 0.0 are:first and most important it much too easy to haul stuff from empire jump bridges, and jump freighters make it very easy to haul things(site note: super capital esp super carrier building is often done via reprocessing carriers which speed up the process as one carrier can give the parts you would need 3 runs with a jump freighter)second: its harder to get production slots etc in null sec also refining ore is harder you need to run poses for all that which is a lot of work so the solution would be something like removing jump bridges spread the null sec systems apart (light year wise)so it rakes more jumps to get through to your destination also maybe make it easier to catch ships jumping all just some vague stuff pointing in the direction i think the problem lies"
"current issues: mining sucks and is boring and not that profitable in nullsec, so it's easier for me to buy stuff in jita, compress it into guns/ammo and then jf it out, i can fit a supercap into 2 jfs. if there was a better way of getting minerals in nullsec (maybe nullsec mining should have a better mineral breakdown and be like 10x as profitable as it is now or something), i might not have to do this.also, a major issue is the availability of factory slots. empire is so chock full of factory slots it's ******ed, and since you can only have 1 outpost/station per system it really sucks. alliances should be able to have multiple outposts per system and amarr stations should possibly get an extra 10 base slots, with minmatar, gallente and caldar gaining another few slots per."
"in may, we'll be discussing pos misery with ccp. starbases are awful in myriad ways, from the green box of hate to the widespread desire to see fuel pellets implemented. sound off in this thread with the things that you hate about poses; while suggested tweaks are fine, we're more interested in macro level problems like \"the ui for towers is terrible\" or \"give us a better security scheme than passwords\" than a micro tweak like \"change the gallente tower bonus from x to y\"."
"in may, we'll be discussing the eve npe. ccp has made great strides in improving the overall npe. we would like to gather feedback from current players on ways to improve the npe and ideas to increase player retention (by giving a good npe)post your thoughts feedback or experiences here in this thread"
"support"
"supported"
"while a hybrid/gallente rebalance would put my beloved missiles even further behind the curve, it could potentially make the non-missile caldari boats more viable, or at the very least give me a crosstraining option that would make use of the gun skills i do have.supported."
"in may, we'll be discussing methods of improving the eve ui with ccp at the ccp/csm summit. in this thread, we welcome the community to offer advice and counsel as to particular ui fixes they'd like to see the csm address.we want specific and reasonable suggestions to incorporate with our own views, rather than broad-strokes 'this **** sucks, fix it' commentary. feel free to include links to illustrations of your ideas if you're a photoshop wizard."
"pi's interface, while improved, still has major annoyances such as a very clunky workflow for import/exporting, in particular the act of figuring out what resources goes where (there's no ability to give storage areas names), and switching between import/export mode could be cleaner. the delay between actions is also hideously annoying.the pos processes interface could've been massively improved by the simple act of being able to reorganize the different reactors and silos so it makes sense to me (instead of the random order it appears in now)."
"i personally would like to see a general ui feature where we could adjust text size in all windows such as the overview, wallet, market, stuff like that. reason for this suggestion is that i have astigmatism."
"support"
"agree"
"spades: while those look like launchers in your photo, if you watch the video itself, they labeled them as ion blaster ii's. also, that would mean ccp is pursuing hardpoint launchers. as op says, many missile-oriented ships don't actually have the harpoints in their skins for launchers (the caracal and drake being excellent examples).i'm all for a new missile graphic, but i think many would agree that hardpoint launchers won't work unless:a) the fb fix is used so that lag isn't increased by missiles launching from multiple points, and...b) the skins are updated for ships that have no hardpoints or not enough hardpoints (drake, caracal, tempest, typhoon...etc)"
"def supported. missiles haven't changed graphically (since post beta i think? correct me if wrong) in a stupidly long time while guns(i love ac's btw) have gotten effect changes and now epic turrets. at the very least change the spawn points to surfaces on the ships."
"this is a must , missiles are left behing even in graphic :(about defender ms just remove them from the game, same for fighterbomber remove them with the supercaps toooh and dont forget the trails those should be awesome like realy awesome then the explosions too :)"
"makes sense"
"such a trivial and inconsequential thing to worry about...but it seems like a quick and easy 1 minute fix for a dev so i support."
"i agree"
"*wonders why he didn't support this already*"
"i for one would like to see more of the ships underused due to something as arbitrary as tier, such as the ferox."
"supported this"
"supported"
"if you're going to do this, get rid of the ******ed sec status penalty for repping flashies. my sec status has dropped more in the last month from that than any other source.actually, logistics and sec status interaction is crap overall. fix logistics aggression."
"this simply makes sense. you can't lose se in 0.0 so there's no reason to gain it there either. it will create much more gameplay than the silly \"fines\" idea above, plus we'll actually see people ratting in lo-sec again. this proposal is a win for everyone."
"petition it and ccp will give it back, being in the militia this comes up a lot and we found that if you petition they recognize its broken and will give you your sec status back. i've gotten mine back every time.also i don't think my fines idea is that bad, it actually makes you pay for your crime rather than be like oh i lost sec pffff i'll fix it in a day or two. ratting is also the worst way to gain it back. try running an incursion or run level 4 missions or go do exploration and kill overseers and faction guys. centum 6/10 has 4 overseers, each give nice big chunks of sec status. i know why you want more people ratting in belts is cuz you want easy ganks. if you want more targets in your low sec, yell at ccp to increase rewards in low, but then you run into the problem of null sec alliances showing more interest in low for isk potential and so the endless debate goes on. you want pew pew in low just move over to amamake you wont even have to worry about sec status there"
"problem is that isk is cheap (literally) whereas time is not. were people allowed to just buy security you will be in worse shape than the current \"rat in safety in nap-land\" .. besides, wouldn't really make sense rp wise unless you consider the empires and concord 3rd world banana republics where money talks.idea is for people who break the law and get negative security to be forced into doing community service (low-sec ratting) and not just their day-job (null ratting) which they are going to do anyway to fatten their wallets.ps: it will make a lot more sense in conjunction with a low-sec revamp to truly make it the area of space the gentile fear and -10's fight perpetually over access to stuffz"
"good idea this. it always makes me laugh when i see a 0.0 dweller with a 5.0 sec status. i know what you've been doing. i wonder about the sec gain in highsec alternative though. many (not all but many) missions give sec status gains. i've used them to fix sec status in complete safety, once i've grinded up to -4.0 or whatever i needed to not have the faction police get angry at me in that system, and it would quite easy for a suicide-ganker to manage sec in this fashion without having to go to lowsec. if nullsec doesn't give sec gain, neither should highsec missions, or missions at all (just lowsec anomalies and belts?)?"
"that is correct, as per the proposal, only lowsec belts should give sec status gain."
"an excellent idea. and since this is in the assembly hall, ccp can falsely give the credit it for it to the csm as well.everybody wins."
"interesting concept...and how would this address alt usage to completely circumvent having to grind sec status back up in low sec, aka do the crime on one alt, grind easy isk outside of low sec on the other? because i've never had anyone answer this even once."
"you will eventually run out of alt slots. if you start recycling the alts you will get banned as per current rules."
"the poll currently indicates that out of those people who repair their sec status, a large majority do so in 0.0 space. so that gives some weight to this proposal."
"if i had it my way i would say that a piracy killing in empire even just once results in an instant -5 sec status for all of empire. this negative sec status remains unchanged no matter what you do for at least 3 months after which you may slowly begin to increase your sec status. you wanna be a pirate? then be a pirate. stay in lowsec or be concorded every time you enter highsec. live on the fringes and pay more for your ships and modules because you want to be a pirate.piracy as it stands is too cozy of a profession."
"in may, we'll be discussing the thousand little things project with team bff at the ccp/csm summit. in this thread, we welcome the community to offer suggestions about how csm can help team bff focus their efforts to get even more \"bang for buck\".we are not just looking for specific little things that annoy you and that you'd like fixed, but also suggestions about improving the process of identifying and prioritizing them.the csm would like to see a team dedicated to addressing the little things in every development cycle, and your input will help us mount a stronger argument for this position."
"seriously? what are you? the playground bully?grow up.... your just digging yourself a bigger hole.no bigger than your mouth no less.i even agree with the goon... shocker of all shockers.>.<;"
"sooolittle bit of drama here. what do you think the chances are that the op is yanking your chains?"
"i'm posting, but not with my main."
"lol, everyone post with your alts.it makes this thread that much more of a joke."
"not really effects but visuals.now i won't explain but heres a video which show you minmater ships flying in and out of the station and also other ships flying out or in a station."
"realistically the size factor is true that it doesn't make sense, another thing ccp decided and thats how it rolls so i don't honestly care ether way. when i had a rorqual i never really wanted out of it so im not sure why you would ever want to let go of the tity when it so big and awsome.so for the toon crap id stick with a alt for the light pvp stuff a good dramiel should be exciting enough.now from personal experience the alt for the cyno i hated that crap."
"the only way this would be in any way acceptable in my eyes, would be that if the station upgrade for allowing supercaps to \"dock\" only allowed them to simply latch onto the station itself. the act of \"latching on\" would not in any way, shape, or form make the ship immune to damage, it would simply just increase its ehp to that of say the toughest station service. thus making the ship destructible."
"omg this is bull****. i bought a ferrari and now they're telling me i can't keep it on my council estate and should have a mansion!also there's no room for my speedboat in the back yard and my prize-winning racehorse looks so miserable tethered to that lamp post. so *****ing ***** * ** * * * *******rant over."
"ooc reference to an ic thing here, so apologies in advance for the rp angle to this discussion.one of the set scenes in the empyrean age (p268) was when \"admiral alexander noir\" was approaching the lifts in the station that would take him up to the capital pod gantries dozens of levels overhead, this in order to board the wandering saint, a nyx supercarrier.i see no reason why docking should not be allowed, something as simple as a lengthier docking timer would avoid docking games as someone suggested earlier."
"put the titan in a capital ship maintenance array at a pos. there, docked..."
"this. not going to support any mechanism that makes supercaps easier to play or encourages proliferation. i want you to hate your life every second you sit in one of them and i want you to moan and gripe to your corpmates so they also fear the day they decide to make the decision to jump in one because they feel that it's important to be in one as 'end game content'.so yeah uh, not supported."
"perhaps you guys missed the part where this is a multi-player game... if you want to play a game where you can do everything solo, you might consider a console fps or something. a cap ship was never intended to be a single player resource. if you are too stupid to look into the requirements and restrictions of a super before you train for it... who's really to blame?"
"supercaps were originally intended to be alliance/corp assets. there is a flaw in there deployment, as corps can't control a supercap. essentially, they do all the management to build them, but the mechanics to maintain ownership of a ship just don't exist: account sharing is illegal and they can't dock to be controlled during downtimes. when a pilot enters the ship, it permanently leaves alliance control, and the alliance essentially loses all the resources used to create it. to recuperate this loss, the supercap pilot is typically expected to pay for the supercap. this typically limits supercaps to wealthy individuals that can afford a character \"stuck in the ship.\" this is where multiple characters become necessary. a supercap pilot has a very limited amount of activity they can perform in this game. so, to enjoy the many other aspects of eve, you need a second character. given people's interest in various aspects of the game change with time, and the constant need for more sps, this typically translates into additional accounts. if you are playing eve in a super, and you don't have multiple veteran characters, your doing it wrong. pre-dominion: the second account requirement was a reasonable trade off for generating hundreds of km's in one dd. mom's were viewed as near worthless, and the sov system required massive amounts of pos bashing, which pretty much requires the use of dreads. as such, dreads were the workhorse of sov warfare. unfortunately, the pos-spamming sov mechanics were tedious, and titan proliferation was nearing the point to mandate removal of the aoe dd. hence, dominion. post-dom: sov upgrades made nullsec an isk monsoon, threatening to drown the economy in a biblical noah-style isk-flood. sov warfare moved from shooting pos's (which fighters couldn't hit) to shooting structures that fighters and fighterbombers can shred. and mom's were buffed into untackleable seigeless monstrosities that consumes dreads like a fatman consumes pizza!! this changed the landscape from seiged dreads into supercarrier fleets, as supercarriers do almost everything a dread does but better and with much less battlefield risk. with the influx of isk, and the ease of training into sc's, the workhorse ships of sov warfare became the supercarrier. this brings us back to the original post. when dreads dominated sov warfare, most people played the game as they desired, and then shipped into dreads for sov activities. this worked fairly well (even if the sov mechanics sucked), as after sov is claimed, you can go about your daily eve activities exploring many of the other aspects of game play. the dreads position as the sov workhorse was near perfect. unfortunately, the sc changes have ruined the dread. supercarriers are superior to the dread in almost every way, and hence sov warfare has spent the massive influx of dominion's isk to create supercarrier workhorse fleets. the average-jo player in these fleets has two or three quality characters. to fly the sc, they typically have to devote one of them to a ship, essentially removing that character from use in any other aspect of the game. is it fair to impose this cost for a supership? to fix this game: we need to return the sov workhorse to a dockable ship!! one option, allow sc's to dock. this will result in the continued proliferation of scs. for the love of lowsec, limit their docking to a sov based structure. note: until there is a counter to supercaps beyond more supercaps, sc proliferation is a terrible thing. alternate option: nerf supercarriers so they can't be used effectively against sov structures. unfortunately, since scs are so effective against dreads, dreads will still be rare, and bs+sc the norm!in either case, supercarriers need a vulnerability. whoever introduced a super tanky, super dpsy, ewar immune, logistics ship that lacks siege vulnerability, tracking difficulties, or an effective counter aught to be *%&$^#!"
"why dont you just buy another char to hold it."
"is it just me, or do people forget two important facts:1) there is one vote per account, therefore, it is much more likely that far more experienced players (mostly found in nullsec, i hope) will inherently have more weight in an election than newer hisec players that have only one account. my three votes are more than your one, even though there is only one player. new players won't invest in multiple accounts unless they have lots of money or realize quickly the benefits...in general they won't because they aren't ready to commit to eve as their game that early.2) newer players often don't know to vote. they see the ad on the client login, maybe on the website if they visit it often enough, but likely won't vote because they don't know any of the players. they often realize they lack the knowledge to make such a decision since most candidates portray themselves towards either a grandiose (and complex) vision of eve or nullsec fixes, neither of which new players understand.all csm's are inherently going to be weighted a certain way because, like eve is a niche game in the market, those who vote are a niche market in eve. if you want to prove the elections are flawed, have a player actively campaign new players (such as earning e-uni's total support) and gain a ton of votes with new players, only to lose anyways. elections will forever be lopsided unless candidates make it a point to work together to involve more players in the voting process.why should ccp changed the csm when the players that take the time to vote got what they wanted? you and your few friends would have voted someone that benefits you too, that's why you vote! if you want that person to win, you should have made it a point to find them more votes. votes should continue to be on a single account basis. those who are willing to dedicate the funds to ccp deserve a vote for each account. they want to see the game continue, and they obviously have a vested interest in the game's success because of that."
"maybe they didn't bother, because they knew that (for example) given that only 2% of accounts are active in fw, then what is the point on campaigning on a fw platform? even if they did get all players in fw to vote for them, they won't dent the 0.0 votes.now if ccp dictates groups of constituents (based on a census or a survey of all players, and how each player choose to identify themselves as) then that would incentivize more minority players to run for csm (because frankly, who wants to bother if they have no statistical chance of winning?)for example, before the next csm, have a survey that all players are encouraged to fill out, which asks each player (1 per account)which best classifies what you spend most time doing in eve in the past year:1) pvp 2) pve3) mining4) industry5) exploration6) trading7) corporate management/pie8) faction wars9) piratingwhere do you spend most of your time:1)empire2)lowsec3)null4)empire null5)whthat should bucket the population into groups which can then be assign a number of seats (depending on proportion). each player can then vote for a candidate for that seat(s). ie, players who are identified as null sec pvp, can only cast a vote for the candidates running for the null sec pvp seat(s).as an aside, i believe that any argument that a goon (or better 1+ goons) on the csm (sorry, i don't mean to pick on goons, just a handy example) is not biased is going to be flawed. even if they had the best intentions in mind, i doubt that a player that spends 100% of his time and experience playing in null sec is going to give the same mindshare to a suggestion that affects empire space or fw than one that is more familiar to them on a daily basis. they just may not have the experience in the other aspects of the game to be able to contribute as well as somebody who do spend all of their time there.this system is not without its flaws, but i think it would at least give a chance at letting the lesser (in terms of population) aspects of the game get some coverage and spotlight, and chance at improvement. it's arguable that those sometimes forgotten aspects are the ones that should get some more attention after all."
"on the first point - it makes perfect sense to vote for someone who will reprisent your interests at csm - so a 0.0 player not voting for a rep. from 0.0 would be odd. on the second point however - you do realize that fw has had no changes since launch, is basically broken, and ccp did not even show up this fanfest to th round-table for it yah? no csm has reprisented fw (just to focus on that) and looking at the voting numbers - no csm can be voted in on a fw ticket. (the numbers just don't add up)i don't care if its the alliance leader of gsf, or whatever - thats the ops concern. my concern is that minorities (like fw)are not being reprisneted and while it may sem only fair that the better organized 0.0 alliances should vote their own membes into csm - it undermines the idea that csm reprisnts the community. if there is any change to anything that is not related to 0.0 (moon goo, 0.0 sov mechanics, some pvp tweaking, logistics) i will be suprised. i think this is a problem in terms of what csm was designed to do - but - i am also glad that at least someone is getting their voice heard. so more power to them."
"look...i would love to be the first person to say anything negative about mittani and goonswarm but there are too many people ahead of me in the line for that one. i will say i am however the last person to ever support goonswarm...in game.that said...while it is true that mittani is a distrustful ass of a gnome in game i don't believe that he as a csm are the same. listen to the fireside chat that was posted today. he in no way shows any interest in ****ing over the game to benifit goonswarm. even if he did he is not the entire csm. there are others there to keep him in line. he is working with the rest of the csm and taking input from the players through the assembly hall to get done what needs to be done.do i fully support him? no. but i am not in direct opposition of him either. despite his in-game jackassery he does have some good ideas and he does have the real life experience to get the job done.threads like this do nothing but build mistrust and hinder the process. does he deserve that mistrust? yeah...but at this point nothing we say or do will change the fact that he is the csm chairman. nothing! ccp is not going to kick him out. he was voted into his position and no amount of whining is going to change that. let him do what he needs to do. give him constructive criticism and ideas to help better the game."
"i propose a new item that is basically a low yield nuke you keep in your cargo hold (so it can be scanned and seen by the gankers) that detonates upon an unexpected venting of the cargo hold (i.e. it is rent asunder as the ship is destroyed). the up shot would be that it progressively (via skill levels) reduces the % chance of your goods dropping for suicide gankers to harvest. from the 50% chance of any one module or stack dropping on ship destruction it drops by 5% per primary skill level. add on a couple more skills (heavily pre-rec) and possibly reduce the chance of a drop down to under 5%basically what you are trying to do is make sure if you are ganked then you assure that your precious cargo is rendered useless. if you drastically reduce the chances of a profitable drop then the desire for profit motivated ganking also drops..for the ganker it's not all bad news as not every one will do the research or even know of this item so there still will be viable targets. also even at the highest skill levels there should be a good 5% chance of a good drop.this idea would not stop ganking, but add another deterrent.anyway. just a thoughtedit: fixed an auto-correct snafu"
"no. i think what a lot of people fail to realize is that suicide ganking is part of the game. just like scamming and thievery. you wanna be a ****...well be a ****. you wanna steal and pillage...steal and pillage. you wanna become the leader of the biggest alliance of jackass's in the game and then become chairman of the csm and have a bigger impact on the game. then do it. thats what is great about eve. you can be and do what you want when you want. if you want to stop people from suicide ganking you...then do your business somewhere other than jita or stop making yourself the obvious target."
"why should suicide ganking be \"deterred\"?if you really want to \"deter\" suicide ganking i suggest using a super special ultra-secret h4xxsploit known as \"tanking your ship properly and not autopiloting when you have valuable cargo or modules\".i hope you see this post before it gets deleted and i get banned for revealing this exploit."
"i've heard scouts help. or flying as a group... you know, in a massive multiplayer."
"not supported.suicide ganking is working as intended."
"your solution is a module that when in your cargo, reduces the chance for cargo to drop. i actually like this idea.... but need some extra thought put into it. what uses does this cargo-mod truly have: it means when your ship dies, so does more of your cargo. can this be used in all ships? does it affect fitted mods? could this have any potential for abuse? what is a fair \"reduction\" in likelyhood? i would suggest a reduction of chance to drop to a minimum 10-20%. why do you want a mod to do this? would a skill be better? if its a skill that you can't turn off/on, then it has a nice double edged sword feel to it!"
"i would like to see a vision of highsec that revolved around reducing conflict between empires rather than amplifying it."
"it's people like you who give peace a bad name."
"\"it's a possibility, i'll give you that. however, it's also equally possibile that we'll wipe ourselves out.\"- yea, \"it's equally possible\" so why bank on the outcome where everyone dies? if there is no hope, then why bother? 'kill them before they kill me, even if that's not their intension.' this is the kind of thought process that gets us into conflicts in the first place. why change anything when we're so efficient at war? we're better at fighting than we are at peace, so why not keep killing each other until nothing is left but the roaches? then they'll be no question, peace will be the only choice because there will be no one left to make war.\"irrelevant. none of this has to do with human nature (which, no matter how hard we try to suppress or get around, is still there).\"- hmm, human nature. this is a funny little joke which people like to fall back on to make excuses. i'm sorry to have to shatter your glass house but humans aren't natural. yes, we do a lot of the things which other animals do, but we also have reason, awareness beyond the self, a concept of time and long term effects, as well as the ability to feel empathy beyond our own species, let alone our own families or tribes or communities. we are freaks of nature. we are not 'natural'. we're something more, it just requires us to realize that so that we can move beyond making excuses and start making a difference. and if you don't believe that then you should just dig a hole and crawl into it.\"right now, we have the ability to communicate with [almost] every person around the world. hell, we've had this ability for almost a century (ex. mail, telegraph, direct phone lines, etc.). all this technology has allowed nations and groups to form up logistical efforts faster and more effectively (though, no group has made more use of this than the military).\"- because the military is the only group which receives adequate funding to execute these maneuvers on a regular basis. imagine if disaster relief groups had billions of dollars and thousands of fully trained operatives at their expense.\"never. racism, bigotry, slavery/human trafficking, religious fearmongering/\"superiority\" are all facts of life today (as they have been for centuries) and i don't see any of them going away so long as there is profit and \"weak-minded\" zealots to fuel them.\"- but they're less acceptable than they were, and that's the point. people don't do these things in the open anymore. more and more they're being pushed to the shadows because that's the only place that they can exist. will they ever fully disappear from human society, probably not. but would you rather be born (or have your child be born) into a world where slavery/fear mongering/exploiting others is a rule, or rather an exception which is hunted down and abolished? 'weak-minded zealots' include people who cannot see beyond the shortcomings of the world and accept them rather than fight against them.\"since the late 1800s we've been able to move large amounts of resources (both for need and want). today, in the early 21st century, we've merely 'perfected' this practice. and yet we still have global famines, poverty, and starvation.\"- \"global famines, poverty, and starvation\" are the result of those in power (including nations with technological solutions) choosing not to act, or worse, not acting to maintain their 'superiority' over those who are not able to realistically do anything about it. it wasn't until the 1920's that cargo planes outside the realm of posted mail were developed and commisioned. by shipping standards, the largest oceanic cargo ships can carry approximately 14,000 teu, which at the maximum weight per teu would translate to 500 million pounds (or 250,000 tons) of cargo (these are very conservative numbers). modern cargo planes have a capacity of over 100 tons and a range of over 6400 kilometers. imagine if it was all food and supplies rather than weapons and pessimism."
"- until recently (last 10 years or so) few of the \"common man\" could translate and read/hear what the \"common man\" of another language were saying. yes, with the advent of translation technology we can now understand each other better than ever. however.."
"\"more than that... we are 'immortal.' we cannot die. and without that \"final of final\" restraints there is no reason to hold ourselves back from conflict.\"- yes, that's quite true of the video game, but i was hoping to make a point beyond the video game realm. have you ever had an in-game friend die in real life? last time i check, and i'm quoting fps dave on this one, \"there is no respawn in rl.\".\"how does libya have anything to do with eve?????\"- excessive question marks aside, libya has nothing to do with eve. as much as i hate repeating myself, i was trying to make a point that if one woman can be the final straw which moves an entire nation into revolt, imagine the message that tens of thousands of people across the globe would send to the rest of the world. especially coming from the 'video-game playing community' which is, at times, blamed for 'desensitizing' and 'promoting violence' because players 'cannot separate the real world from the fantasy that is a video game'.\"it's people like you who give peace a bad name.\"- and what have you done? if you're so enlightened, maybe you can offer more than an off-hand remark that holds no weight. and last time i checked, the idea of peace was never a bad thing, only a fantasy, which is what we all immerse ourselves in every time we log into a video game."
"your just a joke who thinks he knows what peace is.i'll tell you what peace is.... peace is mutually assured destruction.peace is a lie... a total fabrication of your mind.your definition of peace is where you don't get shot at and make all the isk you want.my definition of peace is literally ending your career in-game so i don't have to hear you whine when someone suicide ganks you.peace is a subjective stuffed toy... it gets tossed... ran over.. changed... stitched... and torn up again... not to mention set on fire.the goal in my book is cooperation... i cooperate with you to take down my foes.i cooperate with my foe to take down a common foe.and along the way we get some laughs... have some fun... because this is just a game.so please... take your carebear peacemaking excuse of a pipe.. and shove it where the sun don't shine.because this is eve online... and we all aim to misbehave. (you can thank cap'n reynolds from firefly for that one)can i get an amen folks?"
"+1go back to high sec plz."
"your history is your history. if you don't like your history you should have lived a better life!frankly i want to know the history of people i play this game with because in a lot of ways that gives a good clue as to how badly that player is ready to **** you. sorry i can't support this."
"this. sounds to me like someone is trying to add in a stealth buff for corphopping thieves."
"unerf it !"
"unnerf it"
"you mean the ihub, that must be destroyed (along with any upgrades in it) before they can take the system? yeah, sure.. attractive.one question for posterity: is there any physical pain involved in being as wrong as you are in the statement i quoted above?"
"i will have to concur with the others. i also request to un-nerf the current system in place."
"for the love of null (and hate of missioning) - unerf it"
"bad change. instead of bringing more people to nulsec this is driving many of them back to empire.i don't know that a complete reversal is needed, i like the basic premise that some space is better than others, but they've taken way too much out of the lower end. it really is a pay-cut to move from solo mission running to move out to nulsec and join in an alliance. as has been mentioned before, this change doesn't really have much effect on the power bloc alliances and completely screws the little guy.un-nerf and try again."
"i was ambviolent towards the change. but, seeing the results, it's obvious this was a ****-up. solar systems are being abandoned and i've watched the military indexes on adjoining systems go from 5 to 1 or 0. it's a ghost town out there now and the thrill of being in nullsec is wearing off... rare pvp... and then nerfed isks when you do something else out of boredom. for pepople who invested in carriers, losing the sanctums is a huge hit in their isk/hour."
"it needs to be unnerfed."
"unerf. poor ideas executed even more poorly. -1 ccp."
"what he said. big mistake ccp...but...i think thats already been said about a million times before you went ahead and did it anyway. question is...have you learned your lesson yet?"
"all the risk, and no more rewardnul sec is void unnerf!"
"unerf it"
"keep it"
"give the changes time."
"ccp took a stick, shoved it up where the sun doesn't shine and broke it off then twisted it.i thought ccp wanted more fighting but with these changes it takes 2 to 3 times the time to make the isk for the loss of a ship.in all it wasn't a bad idea to give systems with lower true sec more anoms but the execution of of the plan completely failed. un-nerf 0.0 please"
"during the may summit, the csm will be discussing improvements to eve customer support that impact our everyday game play. this thread is not to discuss individual petition details and responses from game masters, but more of a way for you to provide some input as to how customer support can be improved.this should focus around improvements to existing policies and procedures (e.g. the recently announced reimbursement policy) or the implementation of new policies and the expectations you have as players when you file a support petition."
"i am just wrapping up listening to the recent fireside that was posted. about 2 hours long but a lot of good information came out of it. it was nice to hear the ideas coming from the csm and the interaction with ccp. the clarifications made in the fireside not only on what the csm is able and not able to do but also what is intended is great. i was also glad to see that a couple of the ccp devs made the effort to attend and also put in their input. listening to all of this was not only enjoyable and informative for me but it reminded me of the fanfest and the kind of information gained from watching the fanfest.that said...i would like to see more of this. i know it was stated that the goal is to do this once every month or two or as needed but would it be possible to make it more like twice a month where updates can be given...more ideas discussed and so on. i wouldn't ask that they be two hours long...half an hour...an hour...whatever. we see in the assembly hall ideas come up all the time. maybe address the bigger ideas each week in a vocal setting like this and discuss said ideas on a broader scope. get input from ccp devs at the same time and let the players as a whole hear a devs input as to why an idea would or would not work.i know the forums are exactly what this is for but rarely do we see a dev actually give real solid input or opinions on an idea. the interaction from the regular players asking questions to the csm answering them and even ccp jumping in was fantastic. again...shorter versions of this more often with dev interaction would be awesome!i just now heard you guys say it would be a regular thing at the very end of the csm and the request of devs to tag along. i am going to post this anyway since i have already typed it all up. and here is your thread...loli do apologize...i was at about 1:45 when i started typing this. at the end you guys started saying you were going to hold this regularly as needed and even said make a post about it in the assembly hall right at the end there."
"supported. i loved this chat and hope to see more (though more concise and dense would be my preference over a 2 hour rambler, but that's expected for a first go)."
"moar."
"agreed. they don't need to be as long. maybe a half hour that touches on the key issues with the community - where those issues are, updates, that sort of thing.definitely supported."
"but... but... they're harvesting your ips!!!!!!!111111"
"i cannot support until i can get access to a version i can read.i can't hear... edit: incidentally, shorter ones would make it easier to put into text..."
"i guess what most morons out there don't realize is that their ip changes on a frequent basis. mine changes every day. that is unless you pay to have a static ip...which most people are not going to fork over the cash to do. and no...your ip is not 192.168.1.1...as for the hearing impaired...yes you have a point. personally i don't have the time to be typing out two hours worth of chat but maybe there is someone out there that is willing to put in the time and legwork."
"just so i'm not lumped into the category of mouthbreathers i've had to read the past few days, there are actually people who unironically think that because the first talk was hosted on a goon-hosted mumble, we'd easily be able to harvest everyone's ips and thus easily weed out all the spies that connected to that server. i'm not even joking or being sarcastic.\"yes, the goons are so crafty they'll figure out that the guy connecting as \"sir dongalong\" is actually $spy_char_1_in_gsf even though his name is completely different.\"i can't facepalm hard enough every time someone get this paranoid."
"yes...you are right. but...you are a goon. i still hate you."
"don't make me call durrhurrdurr."
"this thread has been derailed enough without that!"
"a dread does less dps than a well fit cruiser unless it goes into siege mode, thereby becoming immobile and unable to hit anything smaller than a pos."
"dreads are not the problem, supers are."
"this is largely my perspective on this."
"thank god. dreads are about as useful as a screen door on a submarine at the moment."
"my understanding of dreads was that before supercarriers got buffed dreads were in fact on the field to be carrier killers. i could be wrong on this because this was before i got into capitals but it makes sense.either way i support this idea to make dreads more useful."
"honestly, i think making dreads more useful involves less changes to the dreads themselves and more changes to making supercarriers less of the solo pwn mobiles they are now."
"buff dreads with a 5 min seige cycle, drop invulnerability of supercarriers."
"qft!!!!"
"server load for lp store is irrelevant.and it's more than 2 minutes of code or i'd have bartered beers for it with a dev long ago..."
"uhh this seems like a no brainer provided it's not a huge monster code rewrite. hell i'd support this even if it was."
"indeed."
"i don't even use the lp store...supported anyway."
"little things like this make sense."
"so, the second design a starship competition has been and gone, and yet we still have not seen hide nor hair of pattern's tornado, the winner of the original design a starship competition. for thsoe of you who forgot or don't know what this is see here.i would like to ask csm 6 if they can't do something about getting ccp's proverbial backside into gear and give us a date, preferably before 2013, when we can expect to be able to actually fly these ships, as promised."
"what is this? i don't even."
"i would like to point out that the tornado (a battleship if i am not mistaken) being put into the game also means that each other race will need a ship to match. not to have a ship for each race would cause an imbalance in pvp...one thing we can all agree we don't want. i personally believe that ccp went into the \"design a starship\" competition without any idea of what kind of ship would win. that said...when the ship was chosen they then would have to create not only that starship...but the ships for each other race as well. i wasn't expecting to see the ship entered into eve with the very next expansion...i do however hope to see it within the next or the one after.it was unclear if you are expecting to see the winner of the second competition in the game. if you are...don't. it was already stated that the winner was not going to be put in the game. however...i would hope that ccp would see the contest as a way to get the players to create and vote on what they want to see in the game for future ships instead of the crap created by the past devs. no offence ccp but most of the ships you made for eve are crap and look like crap...*cough*revanant*cough*.i agree that having a date of the release would be nice. however...setting a date and then missing the date is worse than not setting a date and releasing it when it is ready."
"i couldn't agree more !!!!!!"
"hi everybody"
"add a dmg attrib to ecm-s so a jammer ship can defend itself"
"so first people scream ecm's are overpowered.people argue that fitting eccm's are the solution (aside from the stfu remarks)and now your saying eccm's are overpowered?is this supposed to be funny?somehow i missed the punchline in this pathetic joke."
"+1 damn those multispecs!try again."
"a good idea when dust 514 comes out. could also be a good thing to add for dust players to take out while fighting.a new upgrade for pis would be space defense's which you can use when battles are happening in space right next to a planet which you have colonies on.what you do is make defenses which send rockets, bombs, lasers up to space and hit a target you painted. the damage is really powerful but it depends on the ship shields or armor.another thing would be airfields which launch fighters/bombers(combats drones as well)into space to fight for your corp/alliance.so just another thing for guys to consider.leave comment or like.stay"
"if not, what would the dusties be good for? unless their targets have military significance beyond the military value of pi goods, dust is going to be a huge flop."
"are you dense?they fixed eve sound nearly a year ago, its been working perfectly since then."
"last stat we received is that 72% of players play with sound on.sound works much better than it used to, and i haven't heard of any serious issues on that front (other than granularity of control, but that's different).if there is any prevalent bug/issue with sound at the moment, i'd be happy to hear about it (and the bug reports associated, you did submit bug reports, right?)"
"i used to play with sound on until my computer discovered this one explosion sound that would cause the whole client to lock up. i haven't played with sound on since that moment (but with a new computer and updated sounds i'm sure it's fine now). gonna need specifics on this one."
"what was said about drone groups and the ship is very true.i'd say the fix to this is having keyboard commands for drone groups 1-20. (i can't even see that many groups for carriers, but just to be safe). you then assign your shortcuts to each group you intend to use.for the ships: drones are assigned to a group number, which can also be renamed (per ship or the account itself) to make it easier to use.ex:my myrmidon has four drone groups, 1 2 3 4.1 = 5 hobgoblins2 = 5 warriors3 = 5 hammerheads4 = 5 valkyriesthe shortcuts, programmed to those groups, launch those drones. i actually name those groups what they hold (less memory on my part needed). i'd say the groups ought to be named across the account, not the ships (probably easier to program, but i wouldn't know.) then, whatever ship you are using, you place drones in groups just like now, but in addition to groups you manually create (as you do now), there would be an option for \"preset groups\" that then allows you to assign the drones to one of the twenty available groups on that ship.(skipping my speel)yeah, a launch command would be great but it needs to be able to control which group launches."
"already requested in csm 3 (check the minutes for ccp's answer).basically there's a technical issue there. however a general revamp of the drone launching/monitoring and general interaction could be interesting in its own right."
"no comments at all? does this need to be moved to f&i?"
"leaving aside purchased accounts, storage issues and the fact that an old 0.0 player now without alliance may decide to have fun in fw for, who knows, roleplaying reasons would be left out of it, the basic flaw of this proposal is that the most fun people have in fw, the sooner they'll get locked out of it and this runs contrary to the objective of the proposal.so, no, not supported"
"this came up during the csm q&a session but i didn't find any threads to it.anyways, the idea is to be able to selectively turn on or turn off certain visuals or sounds and having more options to control these.small examples:leaving effects on but turning off just sensor booster effects.turning sound on but leaving low-shield/armor warnings on.shortcuts to turn sound on and off.sound/visual profiles eg: having one for general pvp and another for fleets.while i'm on it: overview folders."
"ctrl+alt+shift+f12 turns off sound (and back on).we've requested more granularity for selectively turning sound on/off in csm 3, so it's somewhere in the backlog, will see if any progress has been made on that front."
"something to think about:"
"hello guys. i'll try to be short as possible.i got a idea about hit effects and shock waves that make you ship move or stir off course for a second or two. i'll try to make as short as possible.okay so when you ship takes a hit from a enemy ship your ship rocks a little bit from the blast or rocket hit you take. say your orbiting and they score your ship rocks a little but it regains control. gives the feeling that your character is flying it. so thats one down.second is shock wave effect. now this can range from your buddy's frigate exploding next you to a titian blowing up. also pos's going up.the effect rocks your ship(depending on the size and explosion) a little but does no damage what so ever. its basically the same thing as i said above. so that's, that's thought i get the ball rolling on that.so leave a comment, like or whatever and hope you guys decided to throw it the game one day.stay"
"+2my boyfriend plays eve on linux."
"the buttons are symbolic. specifying exactly what your own character says is trespassing on a more important aspect of immersion."
"i like mittens. mittens are cool in both the clothing form and the csm form. he spoke warmly and fuzzily. ok in all seriousness i look forward to more of these q&as because i gained alot of insight and was happy with the issues that were brought up. i'm satisfied with the csm as a whole and even though mittani was the only one to really speak for most of it, with the others chiming in, i can see that he has forged this csm into a very effective and unified front and that is something i am glad to see."
"thanks for the link to download the fireside chat audio. can the csm request ccp to include the fireside chats in the eve gate calendar. the facebook notification was posted at least an hour after the fireside chat began."
"i'm pretty impressed that they seem to have developed cohesion and solid positions on so many issues so quickly. i also like the way they're approaching the game balance issue. they're very much right that eve just doesn't get the constant fine tuning that happens in most high-caliber multiplayer games. improving this in the way the csm is suggesting seems very much within reach and i really hope ccp takes action on this input."
"i have not been a supporter of this csm, in fact i've posted some negative projections of what i thought might happen. can't tell about the future, but the macro over micro approach almost seems obvious as the right way to present issues to ccp. i must admit my opinion has changed. in my humble opinion a most impressive intro of the csm6 to the eve community."
"forgive me for asking a simple question while at work instead of dropping everything i was doing to run off and connect to mumble hosted by goonswarm for a totally unbiased slant on the csm where i get to hear all of the members and not just two hours of mittani stroking himself.run-on sentence is a go!"
"it was exactly what i thought it would be, mittens talking about mostly null sec issues (wonder why), glossing over anything difficult or contrary to his 'place' in the eve world with 'i don't know anything about that', insulting past csm's, but mainly masturbating in front of a mirror as he listened to his own voice droning on and on and on and on and on. pro-tip - when so many against you it's pretty stupid to hog the conversation 99% of the time. yeah that showed real cohesion in the csm. the only time anyone else got to speak was if mittens was clueless. or on such important matters as what sandwich they enjoyed in iceland. wow - that's sure important. but it was an excuse to insult someone respectable who doesn't go to iceland just to drink yah? how witty.wrong way to go about it dude. chairman has certain responsibilities yes, but twisting that into making the csm broadcast into the 'mittens show' was pretty damn dumb - and selfish. if anyone is interested in how long mittens can dominate a broadcast - current record is 2 hours minus 1%. am sure that record will be beaten in the next, or he will learn from this mistake. hope so. my guess is he will learn, but not enough. next go around they might get 2%."
"they might get 2%, but the broadcast will run extra time to make sure mittens still gets his fill."
"ccp doesn't need to tell the csm everything and never should. also,\"more communication\" doesn't mean \"everything\".trying to classify this as a scandal is rather petty and belittles the true scandals that have happened, which have been rather few in number.this is just players trying to fan the flames to try and get what they want. normally happens with unpopular changessuch drama from the csm will only marginalize it."
"lol at mittens expounding on his speculations as to what \"flavor\" the eve economist is. is he old school \"homo economocist\"? or more modern behavioral cognitive blah blah blah\"?next. oh wait no, someone else wanted to talk...just joshin' ya. it was a good talk and you guys cleared up some misconceptions i had"
"the \"scandal\" about it is that ccp put the news up about it while people were on the airplanes to fanfest, refused to talk about it at fanfest, refuse to have any dialog about it after fanfest, and are ignoring even the legitimate questions and feedback. it's not really that ccp is making an unpopular decision so much as they trying to hide from that decision, and it possibly lying about the decision (depending on your favorite conspiracy theory.) in fact the devs in general appear to be laying low and on the defensive on the forums these past few weeks. i think most of the devs know that it was an absolutely stupid idea but some scrub made the change already and there aren't processes in place in the growing company for everybody to tell him how stupid he is.\"scandal\" may be a little bit strong of a word for the nerf itself. \"embarrassment\" sounds more appropriate for the nerf itself, and \"scandal\" the way it was implemented."
"just to be clear, homo economicus is not a gay joke as much as it sounds like it."
"as for that file system it does not work on my computer make it easy okay"
"the \"download\" button is for torrent users. if your old school like me, use the smaller direct download just below it. that'll give you an mp3."
"remember guys, the csm are people who either failed at life because they didn't realise that swearing is very unprofessional, or that making childish jokes is also rather unprofessional. oh well, another failed csm. the chairman takes command of the meeting but does not give anyone any room to speak. either they don't have any education or they didn't pay any attention during their lectures."
"lol ok...but the ones they have are impressiveim guessing you ignore most of the things that go on in this game then"
"i like the idea of time dilation, but the lag i experienced in the only fleet fight i ever participated in has kept me away from them for years now.i like the idea of a couple devs devoted to constant balance iteration of ships.i agree feature abandonment is one of the biggest problems with eve. devs seem to treat features as the \"theme parks\" that other games use, build and forget. but we don't have theme parks in eve, we have tools to play in the sandbox with; some of which are defective.documentation does need to be better, but i badly disagree with the idea of the isk book getting the attention it is. that stuff needs to be in game, or at least easily found on the evelopedia. license, buy, or steal the thing and give it its own button on the neocom. i don't want to tell new players to go out and buy a book, or to download such and such pdf. i want to tell them \"click on that button, then go to this section.\" until documentation is easily found without having to fire up google, its a fail.i disagree greatly with the slant of all these issues by the csm though. the number one problem with eve is pve. i'm going to go out on a limb and say the vast majority of eve players are going to do some sort of pve on a daily basis. shoot a belt rat, do a mission, mine some ore, run a complex, something. its almost inescapable to not do some form of pve. its the foundation for which all other things you do in eve are built, in that it supplies you the isk to do them.i've quit eve, came back, quit eve, came back, and i'll probably quit again. and its always for the exact same reasons that i quit. i do not want to slog through hours of unfun things to do a single hour of something fun.the way it was glossed over in 4-5 minutes of \"that's something far outside of anything which could be accomplished during our tenure\" just aggravated me greatly."
"this is great. very informative and funny listening to u guys.this record should be properly promoted, explains very well what csm is about and what u are trying to achieve. because from the perspective of the casual player csm looks like a bunch of mega corp/alliance leaders or representatives pushing their own agendas. and they are probably asking themselves why should i care what those guys have to say.so rly i heard good things keep the good work.p.s.they are professional enough considering this is a computer game."
"ive always seen it like this;they bring out a feature, see if ppl use it and decide if its worth putting time into the feature and ironing out the bugs, cause if most ppl dont use the feature, they dont see any reason to devote development cycles to it as noone uses it.not saying thats a good thing mind you, just the way they seem to handle such things."
"i'm really happy to see the direction the csm6 is headed in so far. more communication, more open channels, more of a sense of direction and seriousness about the job. thanks for holding the fireside and posting it up.but i do have to say that a whole lot more professionalism needs to be put in place. i don't mind the f-bombs and whatnot, but using the word \"re-tarded\" 100 times, schlong jokes, stupid comments about jewish last names? offensive and totally unnecessary. this isn't your alliance teamspeak. the csm is a very public representation of the player base, please treat all public communications with a lot more professionalism."
"imo csm work is voluntary they do not get paid, so they should act as they like with some borders. can they have at least that? as i said above this is only a game. we have enough of the long speech boring kind of guys in the real world. they are probably much more formal and considerate when communicating with ccp staff to represent us. or am i wrong"
"i'm not sure why the lack of pay is relevant. they took on a job that makes them representatives of 350k players in a very public way, and they should treat that position with respect and a level of professionalism that was lacking in many ways on this call."
"on another note, one thing i heard brought up over and over on the call is that ccp will not listen to \"micro detail change suggestions\". can i ask, why not? is it an ego thing amongst the game designers? i would think they'd be open to taking ideas and suggestions no matter how \"micro\" they are. i understand that the big picture suggestions are easier for them to digest and respond to, but ignoring all micro suggestions is just...lame."
"unlike the misc rap songs ccp have made the past few years, with a peachy white and fat technoviking, or \"the beer ship\"?"
"yeah, you have a point there, but this was a thread about the csm's fireside chat, not ccp. i'm not saying it needs to be pg-13 or anything, i'm just fine with adult chat and humor, i just think that some of the discussion was more akin to listening to an alliance team speak and not really professional for a representative body."
"so the csm should be held to a higher standard than the playerbase (not particularly hard when 90% of local chat is in smsese or trolling) and the company which makes and maintains the game and actually gets paid for it?i'd have expected more professionalism from the company that makes the game, but i give no ****s if they prefer to be a bit more ~chill~ about it and not take themselves as seriously as an old lady with a whole broom up her backside."
"i thought this one was pretty clear. it's not that ccp won't listen to these ideas. it's that these ideas just get added in to the black hole of a backlog which means \"maybe someday if someone is bored enough and there isn't something else they'd rather do.\" ccp has bazillions of ideas on record for how to make things better, but they have nobody in place to work on them. the csm has decided that it's a waste of time to just dump more ideas on the pile at this time, at least until ccp starts catching up with things.i kinda had mixed feelings about the lack of professionalism... on the one hand it was a never ending **** joke about how everybody in csm, ccp, and goon are gay for eachother and sucking eachother off (i'm not paraphrasing here.) on the other hand the impression that they all seem to get along (at least from the 30 seconds of people other than mittens talking) is a positive thing. although i betcha there are at least a couple guys on the csm who sit there and quietly loathe mittens and the joke he's making of the csm."
"and i understand that, i just feel that first should come the broad strokes kind of suggestions, but once ccp accepts one of those and decides to iterate on it, why wouldn't they want the micro ideas related to the broader subject?"
"come on guys a bittorent file?can't you just upload the mp3 to youtube?"
"laughinggirls.jpg"
"gotta say, i really like the idea of getting ship iteration (and how about feature/expansion iteration too? fw anyone?) into ccp's process as a regular thing with dedicated dev's to support it consistently. this is one of the most important things csm6 has in their plans, me thinks."
"from my perspective, the problem is that this has been attempted, and it hasn't really gotten us anywhere. it's not like the backlog or the ideas are going to disappear just because they're pushing for there to be someone, anyone, to actually look at the way the game is to play today and do regular tweaks instead of using a big-assed 5t hammer to bludgeon a change in.once that is in place, then the focus can shift back to ideas, but i wouldn't be surprised if that would be something for csm7."
"ccp has way more broad strokes plus micro ideas that they will ever be able to implement (especially since many of them are probably contradictory.) if they find they are short of micro ideas, they've got eyes and access to these forums, just like anybody else. it's a waste of time for the csm to work on the little things (especially since ccp has a team that's already doing them.) even if csm were to focus on them, the work's already been done, and doing more work on it will not get it done sooner. i agree it's better for them to focus on getting processes into place that will get ideas implemented rather than championing specific ideas that will never get implemented."
"there is a direct download link on that very same page. finding it takes less time than it did for you to login and post your message. how ******ed are you?"
"one: youre asking for professionalism from a goon. one that most people seem to have voted in because \"either he'll fix the game or burn it down\"in before \"its internet spaceships\""
"sir you are a very stupid eve character please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"i really like that idea for having more scrum teams for broad topics that continually need improvement, stuff like feature advancement not abandonment, game balancing (hybrids, dreads, moon goo, etc.), and the npe (new player experience) i also love the idea for a redesigned noob ship! team gridlock and team bff, if your reading this, good work guys i personally know many players appreciate your hard work."
"it was a nice session to listen to, i liked it."
"change in game to make null sec entry for small alliances easierhope the following is written in a proactive manner contains limited tinfoil hat attitude.executive summarycore problem:the resources to have major battles over are in place, ie tech moons, stations and larger alliances gobble them up and use them heavily to help fund their pvp players. these promote beautiful large battles. the problem the smaller, newb, just starting out alliance have to support their pvp the hard way, spend countless hours to mine, and pve for it. these incomes are easier to attain thanks to ability to resource building though dominion but didn't this didn't protect these small alliances from larger alliances easy to used tactics like: though afk cloakers and hot drop titian fleets. solution theme request:put features in the game that give:-->bonus to an alliance, core systems 1-5 solar systems. -->-->so as an alliance grows beyond its initial growth stage the benefits become less important the bigger they become.-->provide ships and equipment that are more fragile/ inferior ones controlled by larger power blocks, -->-->titian bridges minus the titian. pos based clone bays, -->provide tools/system upgrades that can be easily damaged and repaired by some blue collar work. give the infer-structure partial weakness options not just  there or not there.-->--> auto resource collection damping units, able to shoot structures, pos, infrastructures components that allowed produce lessen effects or cost more to maintain if damaged. \/the great wall of text \/ the sob back storylife as a member of a small alliance it is tough.we are so small that we can be suppressed easily and we don't have the resources to make it out on our own compared to the big blocks.to survive we need to join a pact with a larger alliance as a pet and just hope the we get treated well and the enemy block does not lock it's eyes on us.currently there is no diminishing returns on the growing you alliance larger, resulting in large alliances being formed to to be able to share resources and create land buffer zones to either force the enemy to jump a few to systems of lightly populated carebearing content so the intel channels can report them or have enough space so that if an opponent tries to suppress them (ie afk cloakers,) the alliance can simply shift its care bears members from one system to the other. face it; in a harsh world there is safety in numbers, in nullsec bigger is better. there are very few things that become less effective as an organization grows.pre-dominion large alliance could hold vasts volumes of space reasonably cheaply. and crap space was just plugged up just so there would be a land base barrier to protect vs roams. if there was trouble you could simple blob it out at your convenience.post dominion  it removed the ease to just grab space. the cost was much higher and the sov system allowed for upgrading a system that allowed alliances to take up less space. the ones able to leverage this advantage though, was the larger alliances as they had resources to upgrade the systems simply.for the few organized smaller alliance also took advantage of this allowing them to build up a system of their own crap system to be able to function in a section of space. though they had to bargain with the local power block to allow them to be there as the asset.sadly this only worked well in isolated regions of space which the larger power block too the opportunity and organized renter power blocks that allowed them dedicate some tools like jumpbridges to assist there renter alliance to turn isk and were in return able to charge an arm and a leg in rent. as a strong side benefit, it made blue lists a lot simpler.to be continued...."
"sadly the game play issues that would be used commonly to shut down small alliances were never addressed. -->there are limited mobility options that don't required large alliance ships and assets-->there is no option for a small/starter alliance to fortify its self in its starting location.-->there are limited options for small roam objectives that can have an effect on a larger alliance with out being curb stompted while in the the process. the following are issues that if address can assist smaller alliances, while not taking away from the large alliances but only giving them marginal benefits.i will list the general issue and then follow up with possible micro issues to fix.mobility -as it is:only large alliances can set up supply routes though jump bridges. smaller alliances have to rely on these larger alliances to get out into their territories. the jump network set up by larger alliances has been a big help in this area, but has crushed any idea of small alliance independence it they wish to stand on their own. if we the small alliance wants to do close to home pvp and turn on our larger alliance allys we will be cut off from the nipple of empire for sustaining ourselves. only the large alliances have the power to force project them selves into distance fights with titian jump bridges, so it is either travel for ages or blob with the big boys. we need to make travel in eve more fluid put more options in the hands for small roams to go, enjoying in the harassment in some locations away from the well travelled path. (grass can't grow on a well travelled trail) and opening up access to others. need to put force projection capabilities in the hands of the poorer man.the problema small alliance is crippled if it wants to be compete or stand on its own from the major power blocks.the proposed solution:give cheaper tools to help smaller alliances become more mobile ie:-->give jump clone vats (like the rorquals) to carriers:-->--> so that small alliances can load a bunch of ships and pilots and force project near the battle location, to rally their troops, then attack. (larger alliances currently use jump bridges and titian bridges to accomplish jumping right into combat.) this will allow help in getting alliances set up to move out.-->defenceless jump bridge ship-->-->produce a fragile jump bridge ship which is based on a weakened jump freighter chassy that needs escort of fueling ships, has short a spool up timer making it less efficient time wise than a titan (making more of a target roams),jump bridge ship can't to stay behind, and can only project none capital size ships. (that is what jump freighters are for.)-->-->this would allow a smaller alliance independence from the larger block to move material past standard bottle necks and remove the need to rely on the infrastructure of a larger power block. (this ships would be super juicy target, it would required an escort, and would reward those smaller roams with a target, that would be worth while to suicide kill. -->-->clone bays for poss. (required null sec status to install)as a small alliance you will not have the resource to build a station and a have to rely on larger block alliances for an office or a station to jump clone to. if a limited pos clone bay like the rorqual clone bay (holds max 5-10) bodies, would be fantastic. small alliance member get popped and then podded, he may end up in his death clone in empire but can clone jump, w/o implants into his pos where he must install another back up jump clone. (this would be less effective than a station clone but would allow a small alliance to take more risks and pvp in null sec with out the worry of loosing everthing because of 1 podding"
"--> alliance hanger for poss, -->-->allow a single container, like a no tabs corporate hanger array. that the alliance can place in and take out items. personally i am a alliance mining co-coordinator. conduct a local or a remote mining op often becomes c"
"-->dominion suggestion: treaties-->--> not sure how beneficial this will be for the work involved, though. as the out of game politics and diplomacy, in use currently may be adequate. i did a little diplomacy work and didn't like it. and i am worried that"
"doh - i think i may have have just posted in the wrong section. sorry."
"capitals are already mostly useless in 0.0 due to supers. i'd like to see more balance so supers dont make capitals completely obsolete. it's very lame that a 100 man capital fleet cant go out because there's 20 supers around that will **** the fleet.nerf fighterbombers instead. supers already have crapton of ehp to account for their cost. (or buff capitals, 5x ehp would do) :p"
"i like how they don't know how to spell plagiarism."
"as mentioned.. wrong forum... still. funny as hell!this mail was pure unadulterated lol. i bet that the people who came up with this, wrote it this way because it's funnier than hell."
"forgive me for not having the time to troll the forums for the answer to my question, but i would like to know if the csm are going to try and get pos settings looked at.my issues with the current system can be found here"
"we (the csm) all agree that poses suck. we are planning on discussing them with ccp during the upcoming summit. as someone who lives out of a pos in wormhole space, i absolutely understand the pain of pos management."
"yeah i love the idea of being able to set up a base of operations with my corp but i have trust issues, so if ccp could fix this flawed system, that would be great. thank for the reply csm"
"god almighty, both of you just shut up.seriously, take a step back, look at yourselves, and shut up."
"i think they are soul mates."
"thus far i've not seen mittens trying to 'sneak' anything past the rest of us. hell, the guy posts and talks constantly. he asks a ridiculous amount of questions of the other delegates opinions and about past csm processes and we've all started to work on ways that we think things might work better / differently.i guess what people fail to realize is that i'm in a \"meeting\" right now with 6 other csm members on skype. we're actually discussing topics for the may csm summit and the current discussion is heavily focused on improving the game for newbies. ten minutes from now it might be about world of tanks so, yeah, it's all about titans and jump bridges. this has been happening almost every day for three weeks now. i just leave skype on and when i get up in the morning i read all of the :words: that i missed and if i see something fascist or crazy, i bring it up and say, \"guys, wtf is this ****? let's talk some more about it!\" because we're all complete wall of text *****s everyone is happy to re-engage until a consensus is reached.seriously? seven of the nine of us are noobs at this council thing, so we're going to put our own spin on it. i honestly have no idea how many 'formal' meetings that csm6 is going to have. obviously we are going to want to get some specific stuff on the record and we're going to have to adjust our processes for that. at the moment however, we're going 300 kph and are constantly trying to think of new ways that we can take the csm to the next level in terms of effectiveness and community interaction. i think that part of the problem is that the community is used to seeing the csm act or conduct itself in a certain way, we're trying a few new things and because mittens is involved some folks are all, \"zomg they are all goon puppets!\" at this point i am content to just let speculation run rampant while i continue to work with the other csm members as we keep pulling mittens back from [insert bad activity here... like eating babies]. in the end, we'll be judged by our record in office. so far, i am optimistic.as for the content of this thread, the vice chair position was mine if i wanted it but killer 2 suggested that we might want to make it clear that we are not solely 0.0 focused by putting someone else in the slot. i didn't really care because the position itself doesn't really matter unless mittens gets hit by a bus and i like being a team player so, **** it, why not?in all seriousness though, we did consider naming the ferox battlecruiser as the vice secretary. i have chat logs to prove it."
"vice secretary candidates put forward thus far: the feroxmy puppythe 152mm derp gun on the kv-2a roomba"
"oh, i didn't mean to imply anything of the kind. exactly the opposite, in fact.yes, by a strict interpretation of the white paper, since you're making eve-related decisions and there are seven of you present, what you're in right now is a csm6 meeting.the interesting part: if it is a meeting, then the secretary should be documenting it and recording who was there."
"ooh i vote for roomba.. its excellent at keeping track of the dirt we spew.. i wait.. i mean you spew.. we are all mindless bumbling idiots that blindly follow you and have no opinions of our own.. i guess you can keep it busy... :)"
"in all honesty i think you guys have an image problem that you need to work on.that doesn't say you guys are doing a bad job or anything it's just ... that you guys have an image problem.maybe a bit less arrogance from mittani too (at least he has that image of being arrogant).i'm sorry but i'm just pointing the finger on the sore spots."
"you ran a hysterical, ignorant and barely literate campaign as ms pacman; i think i'll ignore any advice from you about image problems."
"this is hilarious. serious internet spaceship politics is very serious. err, a game.p.s. the puppy is the obvious choice as it will actually do something with the minutes."
"from past experience, there will be a long line of people waiting for their turn to do the same thing."
"ccp sreegs is responsible for this pr disaster!!!"
"long awaited ferox buff spotted."
"and then they wonder why the csm has a certain image."
"bread and circuses! csm6 doesn't fail to disappoint. btw, i heard that ankh is back in eve and she would make a really good secretary of vice."
"i would like to propose the 3ed spotlight is something with universal appeal and will improve the game in many ways.updating the look of eve will help improve new player retention and bitter vets. we all like cool space ships flying through space and it undoubtedly plays a role in why the majority of subscribers play eve.engine trails and updated warp effects are common posts in the suggestion pages.it is also well within the realm of possibility for ccp to achieve this if it rises in priority.by having the csm spotlight the lack of these once great effects and request that more development time be put into them we may actually see some results."
"most of our other spotlights will focus on things that will effect almost everybody. not just 'bitter vets', as you call them."
"im keeping this bumped yeah i know lack of updates, but there hasnt been any issues that really stand out though yeah i will add them as the come along.editadded hot topics by akita t, 1000 paper cuts and stop rushing things damnit."
"for great justice."
"supported, and i don't even own a pos."
"incarna will not stop me from canceling 3 accounts if eves old broken features aren't fixedpos towerssovbetter gm's who actually read your petition instead of apologizing for taking to long to get to your petition."
"yeah, there will be a lot of that.i would suggest looking at faction frigates, and balancing them out a bit."
"increase the jump/portal range on the black ops.get rid of the tier system for t1 frigs, it would be nice to have some options besides rifters to fly in pvp.fix the inconsistencies between meta 4 and t2 modules."
"see my sig.capital ships of all flavors (except perhaps the titans) need to be reviewed and possibly even revamped entirely, with special emphasis on dreads.dumping the tier system would pretty much 'balance' the rest of the t1 ships.the t2 lineups need review as well, too many ships out there that nobody uses for anything at all. special emphasis on bo, cs, and the non ecm ew ships."
"nobody is gonna be looking at your sig, just post your ideas here."
"for me the first thing i can think of as far as ships, is the dreads, i remember when i joined eve and was like \"whoa, dreads are fawesome!\" then i found out that they are basically big fat battleships that move 3x slower, have horrible damage against other capitals, can pretty much only shot stationary structures (rly?), only have 3 xl turrets, and not to mention the 10 minutes it takes to make your guns look all fancy. they need some serious buffing, my personal, uneducated, and ignorant idea that will no doubt get trolol'd. is to simply give the dreads more turrets. when i say this, i am thinking of the star wars, star destroyers, like 30 large, 20 medium and 10 small (and proper missile upgrades to the caldari) all active at once.just my opinion, or whatever."
"i didn't vote for you, but i'll humor you anyway.[mandate] tiericidedon't you have a secretary?"
"quick thoughts: 1.) eaf are too weak in the current pvp environment. why does the griffin have 50% farther targeting range than the kistune? all the eaf's have a reduced targeting range, and most have reduced cpu.... isn't this a little ass-backwards?2.) the fourth bonus on af's would be nice, but not required. most af's are fairly quality as is (as long as they have midslots). the ab bonus that was tested a while back sounded pretty nice, i wonder why it was discarded? 3.) the dramiel is a little tooooooooooooo fast for its tank and dps. its ok for it to be the fastest dual-prop frig with a mse, but not if it outputs 200 dps too. the best compromise i've heard is to reduce its dps by 10-20%. keep it at the top, but engageable! 4.) sc's..... 5.) hybrid's.... realistically, they probably should have switched the minnie & gallente weapons platforms, but tis too late for that. hybrid platforms need more pg, and blaster platforms need a way to get in range. i would reduce autocannon tracking to less than their blaster counterpart, and boost blaster optimal by 25%. 6.) i think destroyer bonus's are all mixed up for their corresponding races. 7.) ships with only 1 midslot are broken for pew-pew. if its a combat ship, it aught to have 2 mid-midslots!8.) give bo's some luvin.... either make the ships *cough* sin *cough* more combat capable, or allow them a longer jump range and the like."
"i'd like to reference something that eve facebook page brought me to in terms of ship balancing and that is thisthrowing the math part of the link away for a moment if you look at the distribution graphs 1/4 of the way down and the near the end of the document you'll see graphic representations of why certain ships are favored amongst others when it comes to a ships navigational performance.there needs to be a better spread, although i agree in part with a bit of ship type grouping and racial grouping in this area i don't believe certain ships should have such an unquestionable dominance over another.it makes little real world sense either in terms of industry. just because intel used to make the 500mhz mmx processor doesnt mean its viable for the current era. similarly id rather see ships more closely balanced and then shifted around constantly in the form of updates, improvements and upgrades to simulate shipyard industry rivalry and competitiveness.this does not mean a constant chain of buffing, what might buff one aspect of a ship could nerf another aspect, which may be buffed in another update... providing a detrimental double nerf to another aspect. keeping the level of buffs and nerfs equal and constantly shifting will create dynamicism and a constantly changing combat situation. i would also add with the now 64 bit database it could be made possible to opt a ship out of the update chain, preserving a particularly successful update thus making them extremely valuable commodities."
"from hot topics of the assembly hallblack opstl:dr - black ops are too weak, their jump range and resists should be boosted and add covert ops cloak or a variation there of for black ops ship.original concept - many of you dont remember but when black ops were being tested they were going to mount a module that basically pinged cloakers that were on grid that were cloaked. this ping would allow black ops to temp \"see\" cloakers and fly to them to uncloak them.gallente - drone boats - they are fine, dont fix what ain't broke, anyone who thinks the ishtar or dominix suck dont know how to fly gallente.-blaster boats, hyperion, deimos, astarte, megathron if you are daring. simply put there are two problems, they are too massive (weight), and there is not enough capacitor due to hybrids requiring cap. this puts gallente ships below par of something like the vaga or zealot.fix - there are a few things i can think of.1. increase capacitor2. ship bonus that reduces the max capacitor penalty of mwd3. lower the ships mass to allow faster acceleration.4. increase base speed of gallente ships.minmatartempest needs some freaking love. as it stands right now people would rather get a phoon or a maelstrom over a tempest.proposed fix - tempest / tempest fleet issue - raise the power grid by 1000 mw possibility #2 - adjust the rof / damage mod to 7.5% per leveltempest fleet issue only - add back the 7th turret slot.tech 3 shipsthese also need some major love, especially the legion one general thing - all defensive subsystems should have a drone bay of sorts, ranging from 10-25 m<U+FFFD> based on the type of subsystem.possible fix #2 why is there a reason to train strategic cruiser past level 1 other than for overhead. have the base hulls give a racial bonus of some sort, examplecaldari - +5% flight time per levelgallente - +5% falloff per levelamarr - 5% bonus to energy turret use / 5% rof to missilesminmatar - 5% to cool looking wingy bits per level or 5% to shield / armor boost per level *shrugs* these are just ideas.electronic attack shipswhat to do about these. ummm best guess is reduce sid radius and boost resists to shields and armor. to be in line with af. make them hard to kill like interceptors or give them durability like af.anyway those are just ideas."
"improve the maller and prophecy so that they are something other than bait or an occasional comedy fleet option.the base change should be either to \"abaddonize\" or \"khanidize\" each ship; abaddonize meaning to have laser damage and resist bonuses, and khanidize meaning to have ham damage and resist bonuses. (my preference would be to make the prophecy a ham ship; the maller could go either way).additionally, the maller will need more cpu/grid; it does not have nearly enough of a cpu/grid advantage over the totally superior rupture to compensate for the higher fitting requirements of lasers, especially considering the rupture gets drones.(and nerf angel ships into the ground)."
"my 2 isk for blacks-ops changes.change the cloaked velocity bonus to a 20% per level reduction of scan resolution and speed penalty of fitting cloaking devices.increase jump and bridge range by 50% (should be enough to get some of those regional jumps that are just out of reach currently) change the sin's agility bonus to a 7.5% tracking bonus per level.change the panther's speed bonus to 10% falloff per level bonus. add t2 resists."
"damn, beat me to it. nerf minmatar!!!! /rage"
"the drake really needs some tweaking. it can simply accomplish too much at the same time in gangs of almost every size (except for megablobs). massive buffer +regen, the huge range of heavy missiles, low reliance on cap, and shield tanking allows it to stay faster than the other bc's with the exception of the hurricane (assuming its shield tanked). all this in one cheap, easy to train package that is especially hard to counter in small gangs.yes, yes, bring on the endless flames, but it is the #1 most used combat ship for a reason."
"i should probably point out that the csm have already said there's little point posting ideas for specific balance tweaks as ccp is more interested in hearing what the problem is than what you think the solutions are.edit: by which i mean big picture ideas (\"buff tier 1 battlecruisers\") are probably fine, micro-level tweaks (\"give the ferox another turret slot/5% more grid/500 more shield hp/whatever\") will probably be ignored by ccp.i'll wall-of-text a list of problems a little later."
"replace tempest with freeborn model, ccp starship contest finalist - freeborn - tempestreplace ferox with vidar model - vidar - feroxreplace rupture with thor model - thor - rupture"
"i detest that the following statement is true in this game:\"why fly a,b,c when x,y,z exists?\"that applies to so many ships right now. so many that are simply inferior to other ships so they see no use at all. granted you could name any ship and there will be some die hard out there who had some mild success with it once out of a hundred times and swears by it but lets be realistic here."
"1) oneiros and scimitarboth need a remote energy transfer bonus, just like the basilisk and guardian.2) black opsjump/bridge range increase, because sometimes its quicker to go through a stargate than jump. i wanted to do single jump to a system that was 2 stargates away. but instead i had to travel 10 stargates to get to a mid jump system, then 10 stargates back.3) damps and ew as a whole.with the damp \"reduction\" a few years ago, the arazu and lachesis were rendered fairly meaningless. where as you could damp a single target down to less than 5k, these days your lucky to get the target below max scramble range.i'll use the base raven for reference:raven = 93km rangedamp (lvl5,arazu,rigs) = 60% per damp.0x = 93km1x = 55km2x = 33km3x = 20kmmy scramble range with a t2 scrambler is 16.2km, 18km with lvl5 skills.what i would like is more modules that works similar to the ecm signal distortion amps which gives 10% bonus to use of ew modules (damps, ecm, tracking disruptors, even perhaps webs and scrams). this would enable better use of damps and tracking disrupter's, but also will make you decide whether to compromise the low slots of ships for tank or ew amps.another side effect of increased ew efficiency would be for electronic attack frigates.4) electronic attack ships a) increase tank, whether thats by resists or hp. b) increase lock range. c) using #3 would increase the usefulness of eaf's"
"my ship balance problem with the game, from a macro instead of a micro world view. logistics. once a certain level of dps is on the field, you have to rr to keep ships up. and since there are two types of rr, everyone standardizes to the type that the greatest number of ships in the game use, making life easier on everyone.fix this.and no, this isn't a \"zomg fix my caldari shield\" rant. i want there to be strategic or tactical reasons to standardize a fleet to one or the other, beyond the number of ship types you brought.its a bit beyond the boundary of simple ship balance, but if one type of fitting or tactic becomes the norm because its so overwhelmingly better than all others... its probably a good idea to introduce a balancing factor against it. or, to introduce a new mechanic which gives reasons for, or against, implementing it."
"disclaimer: the following is written from a small scale pvper's perspective only. i will begin with what i think is good about the current system. the rock/paper/scissors model basically works. it ensures that, theoretically, no ship class is useless and even for a veteran with 50 million sp, there can still be a reason to fly a rifter over a battleship, in a given situation. this is a point where eve differs from other rpgs and i like it. there is an ever-changing world out there and you have to use your brains, adapt to it, theorycraft new setups, test them, iterate them and so on. this is what pvp in eve is all about, in my opinion. so, in your attempts to balance ships, do not overact until all ships are the same, the diversity must be mantained and even emphasized!that said, there are issues with ship balancing, a lot of them actually. but we have a good foundation upon which we can build. i will adress several things, in order of importance:1) the medium-sized ship class as a whole. (e.g. all cruiser and battlecruiser-sized ships). the addition of strategic cruisers has even more added to the problems here. i will give some examples instead of explaining the theory for three pages: -command ships are almost completely useless at the moment. field command ships are not worth their price and training time. when you look at the strong tier2-battlecruisers, there is just no reason to justify flying a command ship instead when it only performs a slight bit better. just look at the harbinger, which does more dps than the absolution, or the myrmidon, which has better tank and versatility than the astarte. fleet command ships used to be powerful, but nowdays, unprobable t3 cruisers offer even better gang bonuses while being almost completely invulnerable.-tier 1 battlecruisers are vastly inferior to their tier 2 brothers and are used very seldomly.-balance between races is bad in tech 1 cruisers. the rupture is the best of them with no other being able to compete, with the possible exception of the blackbird. all races need good tech 1 cruisers. when have you last seen a moa, omen or thorax used in pvp? the whole ship class needs some work.-a role must be found for some hacs that currently don't see much use. hacs as a whole must be more focused on speed and maneuverability, so there is a reason to use one over a bc. at the moment, a nano hurricane is about as fast as a sacrilege or a deimos while also having superior damage output and versatility. that does not sound right to me.-some of the empire faction cruisers, especially fleet scythe, navy exequror and navy osprey, are way to weak.-i consider the tier 2 battlecruisers too strong in total. they can be used with success in almost any situation and offer such a good compromise in speed, tank, damage and price that they often replace hacs, command ships or t3s altogether.2) hybrid weapons. especially medium sized hybrid weapons are very weak and need some kind of buff. i will not elaborate on this any further, it has been discussed for years.3) active tanking. it is more skill intensive than buffer tanking, usually requires more slots and is more difficult to do (cap management and all). it makes total sense that active tanked ships are not supposed to be viable in large engagements, but it should be possible to win a 1on1 in an active tanked ship without using stuff like drugs, implant sets and faction fittings. this matter must be adressed carefully, so as to not make fully pimped maelstroms the ultimate solopwnmobiles. continued in next post"
"continued from above post4) angel cartel ships, while expensive and difficult to fly, are a bit too strong. when you fight one, you either die or the enemy can run away, unless he makes a crucial mistake.5) destroyers and intedictors. generally the minmatar ships are the only good ones in this class. the others need to be put in line.6) the arazu and lachesis need some kind of improvement to their ew bonuses, so as to make sensor dampeners viable to use. //edit: forgot about the keres, maulus and celestis. same applies for those.so, basically, just what marconus orion said. every ship should be resonable to use in some situation. there sould be no such thing as a useless ship.kyang"
"ship what??? :o never heard that word related eve sorry"
"vile rat,thank you for setting up a topic for this much needed area of adjustment. being a bitter vet that is truely getting burnt out of changing ships i can say gallent, cald hybrid systems are totally broken. i am an avid gallente pilot they would really be good if hybids were not so totally broken with rng/dps ratio's. it makes no sence that i can fly a mega and do piddle for dps against anyone regardless of setup. then add in they are the slowest bricks you can throw into a pool and you get broken blasters on a ship that can never get into range. what is the point of staying race specific.i have now taken up the common practice of fitting lazors and auto's to all my ships even losing the bonus i am better off. my ferox is full of 220's auto's and can take darn near anyone. my mega is pulse lasor fit and get a large factor. i hate this bring back a reason for me to fit hybrids. papa boats"
"the omen needs more powergrid and base speed. it should be quicker than a rupture, but slower than a stabber. it should be capable of fitting hpls without tank or grid mods. it should be capable of fitting fmpls with serious tank, and hbls with grid mods.the only t1 cruiser worthy of flying is atm the rupture... please change that!"
"you know i love this post. i agree. i hate that whole classes of ships end up obsoleted because some other class does it better. dreadnoughts i'm looking at you!keep the ideas coming guys. don't worry about interpreting the thread too much, just post all your hair brained ideas on how to fix things and things you got a gripe with."
"it would be nice if the specific ship bonuses were reviewed in general. in there effects both pve and pvp. a few are favored over all others (max velocity, and +resist specifically). also some of the slot layouts are quite unpopular, (retribution, deimos, and others).larger drone bays.and lastly, look at a lot of the minmatar/angel lineup and their effect on solo/small gang pvp. based on player preference i think you greatly under-budgeted speed and agility when deciding ship characteristics. the ability to dictate an engagement is a very potent ability, especially when they also deal comparable dps to their competitors.ps, change something about hybrids. do anything you think will make them better."
"this won't be popular because i'm calling for mostly nerfs, and the myopic always like the incessant turning of the power-creeping boost-wheel. oh well.1. battlecruisers. tier 2 battlecruisers are too popular because they're too good at too many things. their abundant slots and fittings give them mobility competitive with t1 cruisers, while their abundant medium weapons give them vastly superior but still relatively-easy-to-apply firepower. they step on the toes of both battleships and cruisers too much, while obsoleting tier 1 bcs. solution: nerf tier 2 bcs to tier 1 levels by cutting their ehp, slot counts and turret/launcher layouts. people will switch from tier 2 bcs to cruisers, tier 1 bcs and bs. the diversity of ships seen in space will increase.2. supercarriers. they've obsoleted dreadnoughts by being better at being dreadnoughts than dreadnoughts. dreads are well balanced because they have a defined role, they have to commit to a fight and they're very vulnerable to subcapitals. supercarriers have none of these weaknesses, and no defined role. supercarriers need to be much less mobile, much more vulnerable to subcapitals and need to have a specific role. this will maybe require changes to cyno mechanics, removal of their ability to deploy fighters and their immunity to normal tackle.3. increase the 150 km minimum warp distance to 250 km. a wreck or probe result >150 km away can be warped to in seconds. this degree of mobility reduces the value and meaning of range, rendering long-range combat unfairly difficult. it reduces the value of ships designed to engage in long-range combat, and the value of fast ships, as restrictions on both range and speed can be bypassed in seconds by an appropriate warp. change the minimum warp distance to 250 km, the lock range. 4. rails. the defining feature of rails is range. it is therefore absurd that the ship with the most gun dps around 240 km is not a railboat. while okay on the frigate level, they're flat bad at the cruiser level and rendered obsolete at the bs level by the existence of the apocalypse. boost cruiser rails, nerf the apoc's range bonus to 5%/level or remove it entirely. then see how bs rails look in conjunction with the change to the minimum warp distance.5. blasters. the defining feature of blasters is close-range dps. but acs and can also apply dps effectively at close range, to the extent that they're almost as good at blasters at being blasters, but have vastly superior range to boot. given their greater range, acs and pulse have unnecessarily good tracking, allowing them to hit small stuff by manipulation of range, while blasters always fall foul of range or tracking. reduce the tracking of pulse and acs, increase the tracking of blasters, and maybe their raw dps a tad."
"capitals / carriers (nerf archon)capitals need a full review. including carriers.as is, the archon is simply the best, by a wide margin. it has the strongest local tank, by far, even compared to the chimera (the chimera loses out because it needs cpr iis to be cap stable, which gimp the local tank), it has the best cap stability - and for carriers, cap is life -, and as it can fit 3 rr and run that from its cap partially, it even out-rrs (+50%) a nidhoggur which supposedly gets a bonus (+20%/+25%) to that. there is no reason ever to fly anything but an archon in an armor-based fleet, and with three carriers designed for armor tanks, that's kind of silly.this goes as far as to making people prefer armor tanks over shield tanks in fleets because the archon is simply so much better.logistics (boost oneiros)there is no redeeming quality for an oneiros in a fleet. the guardian has a better tank, better rr ability, has better fitting, is faster, has a lower signature, etc. etc. etc. the oneiros needs a role.possibility: make the guardian slower with a higher signature so the guardian is the cap chain based ship but the oneiros being able to sig tank much better, and give them roughly equal fitting/tanking ability.command ships (boost eos)there is currently no reason to fly an eos. it needs a much better tank to be useful for armor fleets; it currently tanks worse than a bs. information warfare links should do with a revamp, too. they're nice, but not nearly as useful as the three others.abaddon (nerf)right now, there is almost no reason to ever fly any other battleship than the abaddon except a machariel for \"fast\" fleets. the abaddon has a much bigger buffer than any other bs, much better resists (i.e. logistics tank), absolutely fantastic range (80km with pulses and 2x tc, which also completely mitigates the minimal \"tracking problems\" of lasers), can fit artillery for alpha fleets and is in that role superior to the maelstrom (same alpha, same range, much better tank, lower rof is easily mitigated by the better buffer), and has in essence no real drawback. this is compounded by the archon being such an awesome carrier compared to the rest (see above).picking abaddons as fleet ships should have some kind of actual drawback in proportion to their advantages. if they have 50% more ehp and tank than anything else, they need, say, seriously reduced damage output and not just 10% less dps than the other options. there never should be one ship for a role that's simply better in every respect than the others. it's fine if there is a ship that is best in some qualities, but not in all.faction ships (nerf dramiel)the navy faction ships are nice. they are close to the t2 versions and have different roles. the hookbill needs a check because it's a tiny bit too strong compared to, say, the slicer or especially the firetail, but they're all quite ok.pirate faction frigates are so far out of scale it's not funny anymore. the dramiel is the favorite example, but the daredevil isn't much behind, either. it's boring if a single ship is simple \"the best\" in every way. make the dramiel have some kind of drawback compared to at least some other frigates. doesn't need to big much, but as it is, the frigate class is dominated by 1.5 frigates.the angel lineup is also too strong, all in all, but i'm not sure if that is because the other pirate faction ships are so weak in comparison or because the angels are so good.ps. fix fw plexes so they treat faction ships as t2. the \"new player\" minor plexes being dominated by dramiels is un-fun."
"echo what arkady says above. carrier balance is out of whack (and i say this as an archon pilot), and the eos is just sad. the astarte is also, but that's very much tied to the sad state of hybrid guns at the moment so could be fixed via that -- on the other hand, it's a command ship without a utility slot for the gang link (compare to absolution), so there is that to fix in any case....and yes, the angel ships are op, i think pretty much everyone is aware of this. some rebalancing needed there.though it's a minor issue, i'd also point out the active tank bonuses on blockade runners as something that could use a rethink. even on prowler fitting a buffer tank makes more sense if you do the math, and on viator and whatever-the-amarr-one-is: who uses a lowslot on a hauler for an active repper, ffs?added: eafs. fix them, please. i don't remember seeing anyone fly them ever, outside the alliance tournaments :("
"i think that alot of the bo's problems are because there are few situations where it is actually useful.the 'farms and fields' topic may provide more practical situations where the bo actually has a purpose.that being said i would change two things about the ships themselves:1. longer range on covert jump bridge2. allow use of t2 covert ops cloak. not being able to warp while cloaked really nerfs the ship's utility."
"some general things that are linked to ship bonuses and therefore to effective balance:hybrid weapons need help. rails are too weak, especially compared to fitting reqs and cap use, and blasters do not work well enough (dps and tracking) in their ultra-close-range envelope to be worth it usually.sensor damps are close to useless currently, even on ships with bonuses for them (lachesis, arazu). it's very rare to find a use case for damps nowadays, especially since you need a lot of them -- one does nothing. compare to ecm effect.sub-capital active tanking is inferior to buffer tanking in all except very tiny engagements (i.e. vs at most a few enemies). since most fights are against larger numbers, active tanks and therefore ships with active tank bonuses become bad. this is especially galling since active reppers are also harder to fit and use lots of cap. either active tanks need a buff, passive tanks a nerf, or the active tank ship bonuses need a hefty boost (or a combo of those)these are all pretty well-known issues, but just thought i'd list them here."
"warning to forum mods: vile rat may cry if you edit his posts.on topic:i would really like to see the removal of t1 tiers of frigate, cruiser, bc, bs etc - they add almost nothing to the game (the escalation through them is almost non-existant as they are so role focused). this would mean substantial buffs to many t1 hulls, and might, i suppose, also require some nerfs to bring them all in line.if a compromise is needed for noobs, i would propose a single hull be deemed a \"stepping stone\" hull worth about 50% of the rest of the class, for noobs to start in, but i'm really not sure this is needed."
"blaster ships bigger than frigs. they are just plain terrible at blaster pvp, given the ability's they once had a long time ago.problems:1. damage projection at blaster range1.1 ineffective at damage projection at close range. the lack of the ability to project dps in the only scenarios they are worth using for(solo/small gang) against more common targets than idealized 1o1 crap makes them even if they fight at point blank rather ineffective compared to med range damage dealers for this types of engagements.1.2 inability to control a target, a blaster ship should have full control over range and transversal at web ranges(by making the target far slower than the blaster ship) and should be able to keep it up even against multiple targets at point blank(since solo doesn't mean 1o1 since ages).1.3 this means at least 75-80% webs on the cruisers/bcs and full 90% webs on the bs.2. ability to outdamage other hulls2.1 blaster ships don't offer a sensible damage advantage(while it is about 50% in the frig class) it is 0-25% in the cruiser, bc, bs class, what isn't suitable for most situations to make them really useful.2.2 increase blaster damage by 10-15% for the large and medium turrets.2.3 change t1 weapon rigs to 15% and t2 to 20% and reduce the absurd calibration cost on damage/rof rigs so they become a more sensitive option compared to tanking rigs.2.4 in regards of changing dps and the ability to project dps at even at point blank, blaster falloff should be reduced by 50% and null should be changed to +50% optimal and +25% falloff bonus instead of the +25/+25 bonus it got now. 3. ability to catch stuff3.1 speed, a blaster ship is supposed to catch a target before it kills it. yet they tend to be to slow for this task after fitting.3.2 address active tanking and resist rigs, by removing the speed penalty from them and change it to something like lock range(same should be done with shield tanked ships). also reduce calibration from active tanking rigs, making it possible to mix them with damage rigs. 3.3 add around 5-10% more base speed(20% to the astarte and enyo) to blaster focused hulls.4. lack of suitable capacitor size/recharge4.1 blaster ships tend to be the most cap intensive ships ingame by mixing active tanking, cap consuming weapons, operating within neut range most of the time and mwding around a lot.4.2 both base cap and cap recharge should reflect this extreme cap heavy game play and should allow operating the weapons and a single rep tank at least as long as it takes to kill a similar sized hull under a neut combined with nos(that you can finally fit again with a working web).5. fitting5.1 minor fitting fixes of the hype, brutix and astarte to be at least able to field ions + tank. 5% more grid and a bit more cpu on the mega would be nice to.6. fix the t2 blaster ships6.1 diemost and astarte need a complete makeover to make the useful in her role given that they add not much over her t1 hulls and fill the same role(close range brawler) that are also occupied by a huge amount of cheaper t1 hulls from the other races."
"in my (very) limited experience, i feel gallente and caldari ships need to be looked at.hybrids are in definite trouble compared to every other weapon system in the game. anyone who says different either a) doesn't fly these ships and/or b) is delusional (i've seen someone post a short video of doing triple-digit damage per volley on a megathron and claiming it was working just fine).drones need to be looked at as well, especially for drone ships. good example of this is the myrmidon battlecruiser. it has 75 bandwidth, exactly the same as a vexor cruiser. far too low, needs to be upgraded to 100 at least. capacity might have to be increased too. and, of course, drone modules could use t2 variants, etc., etc. you know the drill. as a racial weapon system (which the tutorial claims is drones for gallente), drones are badly neglected.further, limiting the number of drones under control to 5 for everyone is rather unfair to gallente. for example, a rupture can use ewar drones while still doing a lot of damage with turrets and launchers, while a vexor has to use damage drones or lose a very large portion of its damage. imho, some system needs to be worked out to keep damage drones and special/utility drones separate. or give drone boats the option to fly +1 special/utility drone per skill level, and tweak their effectiveness.caldari ships, by relation (second race to use hybrids along with gallente) need to be looked at as well. but i believe fixing hybrids will go a very long way towards making caldari ships function better.ewar could use a review as well. gallente dampening is rather weak, when compared to amarr tracking disruption, which is weaker compared to caldari jamming. it has its place, i won't deny that, but it is highly situational. just ask people doing fw missions. people hate running missions vs caldari because they get jammed and missile spammed, but they love going against gallente because hybrids hit like wet noodles and dampening is highly ineffective, almost negligible really."
"hybrids!the hyperion has bonuses to armour rep and hybrids, so if you want to take advantage of all of these bonuses you'd fit:-neutron blasters->which require a mwd-armour rep/s->which require a heavy cap boosterwhat's the similarity between neutron blasters, a mwd, an armour rep and heavy cap booster?extremely high powergrid requirements.you end up ditching or lessening the value of a bonus, either by dropping to electron blasters or not fitting a rep.popular and excellent ships like the cane, drake, abaddon and rifter all have bonuses which you simply can't avoid. useful bonuses, which don't force you to make ridiculous sacrifices.another observation is that shield-tanking minmatar ships can slap on gyrostablisers and do more damage than blasters.i like what the csm are aiming for, small balances and fixes made every single patch.ccp know that hybrids are broken. they actually do. it's not a priority because \"no one uses hybrids, so it doesn't affect anyone, so it's low on our list.\"if ccp were to decrease hybrid fitting reqs by 5%, or increase tracking by 5%, i'll admit that it won't be perfectly balanced. but it's better than nothing, and in 4 or so patches you'll find the game much more balanced than previously."
"-gallente-related items: damps, blasters (more tracking, less cap use), rails (more damage, easier to fit) info links (need to be looked at), active tanking bonuses (weak now that eves population makes 1v1 or even 1v3 engagements rare), nemesis (could rea"
"man can you imagine a fully cloaking blops bs? i'd fly nothing but that, all the time."
"pet peeves:would be sweet to have more actual options in frigate/cruiser line-ups other than 'highest tier' > all.decrease signatures on destroyers and use the marauder paradigm (few guns, high bonus) .. costs a fortune to fit all those damn guns decrease eas signatures and mass to t1 levels. in fact they should not be significantly worse than t1 in any area ('lol' kitsune lock range).look over buffer tanks on bc and down. damage hasn't been increased while ehp has gone up 50-100% over the years .. non-buffer fits have become obsolete as staying power trumps all.make af's immune to principal ewar as fourth bonus (tp, td, damp, ecm).swap fitting requirements on neuts and nos.how on earth do you get 80km out of abaddon pulses, i don't get that unless looking at 1.5xfalloff .. and 2 te's, those slots come from heatsinks i presume which leaves it with awesome range but pitiful damage .. kind of like a bs sized laser drake maelstrom is an auto boat, tempest is the artillery boat ... bonuses reveal that quite handily. if anything tempest grid could do with a buff to make it a little easier to actually arty the damn things.hookbill vs. slicer can be a very close fight and ultimately comes down to hook fit .. my standard active tank slicer burned through a te hook before hitting half armour .. properly flown firetails are considerably more dangerous if you ask me angel ships need an agility hit, let them travel ungodly fast as present but make them handle like crap."
"scorch m and especially l. it's far too good. far too much tracking, far too much range. if blasterboats aren't supposed to be able to track smaller ships, why can pulse boats do so?nidhoggur. need to be a shield tanker to keep the chimera company. swap two lowslots to medslots and rebalance cpu accordingly.archon. too good, too easy to fit. nerf.slaves on capitals. no.angel ships. speed is fine; huge agility and great damage as well is not. cut agility and drone bays.field command ships. hopelessly obsolete, need a complete rework."
"scorch optimal and pulse laser (esp tachyons) base damage need to be looked at and scaled backblasters need to be looked at because currently on the hulls that fit them they are sub par. rails are fine barring excessive cap use. the minmatar lineup is stuffed full of poor slot layouts that make certain hulls under performers. t1 minmatar hulls dont have enough of a velocity adv. over other races to justify nano fits when taking into account the sacrifices that have to be made to achieve such fits (poor slot layout strikes again here). for the love of god un-nerf the capacitor. yes we get that ~capless weapons system~ and all that but when an amarr boat can run its lasers and a mwd for longer than a comparable minmatar hull can run just its mwd something is ****ed up.typhoon needs more pg, so does tempest. tempest needs another mid, can afford to lose a low.why does the maelstrom have only 627 less base arm. hp than shield? lose 1-2k armour for shield hp in return.ewar drones suck with the one exception.most t1 frigs are so useless the only people that fly them dont know any better.give the omen enough pg to fit hpl's.nerf dramiel. we knew it would be op the moment it hit sisi and it has been. either drop its pg to force people to undergun it if they want to mse tank, or reduce its speed and agility to 10% faster than a fast jaguar.blackops are terrible. nice concept crap execution. cant jump far enough, cant tank, most of them do poor dps and the costs in materials is far too high.drakes do too much competently. either nerf pg or drop a missile hardpoint and midslotfor the love of god make the hel more than ablative tank for the rest of the supercap blob.dreads suck in the meta and they are an unappealing train now that we have super carriers."
"dreadnaughts currently have no role except bait right now. scs perform any role a dread can do, better and have increased mobility to boot. they also are favorite targets for titans to dd due to the fact that they just don't have the ability to realistically tank a dd. suggestions -> make dreads more resiliant to doomsdays/bombers while in siege (50% reduction to doomsday/bomber damage recieved while in siege) increase dread jump range to match carriers, also give dreads a slight damage or range bonus while in siege. its just too easy to set up carrier/scs outside of dread range and kill every last one from the other side of a pos bubble. i think for the most part vs subcaps, dreads are very well balanced. against scs and titans they fall far short, and just aren't used much anymore. tier 1 battlecruisers are rarely used compared to tier 2. normalize ehp values between the two, and adjust fitting and bonuses to promote versatility within the class as a whole. hybrids -> small blasters are fine for the most part, however medium and large blasters are terrible. there really isn't any reason to fit anything other than autocannons/lazers/heavy missiles on cruiser/bc sized hulls. projectiles and lazers are quite good on bs hulls as evidenced by the prominance on 1400 mael and baddon fleets. optimal + falloff on 1400s vs megapulse iis seems to be pretty fairly balanced. unfortunately ther just isn't any place for 425 rails, 350 rails and blasters within the arena. boost falloff for medium/large hybrids to add more practical application of damage."
"the problem with armor tanked blaster boats is they are as agile and fast as a two-legged, pregnant cow and have the attack range of t-rex's arms.the problem with rails is they have no useful niche in the game right now.the problem with caldari hybrid ships is they are slow and do very little damage.the problem with snipers in general is how hard it is to keep range. whether it be the silly speed a dram can fly, the 100km range max warpin range, the hypefast probe scan times, or the alpha weapons (the natural sniping type of weapon) favoring medium range.frigates are unbalanced because the current trade off is a little extra tank for a lot of speed and speed wins every single time. so any frigate sized ship that cannot dictate range is worthless in most situations, and the slow faction ships are worth little more than as hangar trophies.dreads are sitting ducks that are easy to ninja gank with high alpha ships like the scarriers and titans, making them useful as bait or only in situations when enemy fleets are known to be no where near and are instantly safed up if so much as a single enemy ship shows up within 10 jumps. they are currently very dreadful, but not the definition that was intended.moon goo is unbalanced. it means, from an alliance-level, you are either in control of systems/constellations in the north or you have a harder time investing in alliance-level projects.titans need to be reworked to fit their current mechanic. it is hard to have a game rule prohibiting account sharing while at the same time creating alliance-level ships that, by default, require the access of multiple people in most cases.scarriers are evil creatures that keep captive a character with at least a year of training while usurping the game niche of dreadnoughts. at the same time, they are \"i win\" buttons for small-to-medium sized fleets. ten scarriers shouldn't be able to keep hundreds of battleships cowering in fear.the self destruct command is broken. in combat situations, it is used for any number of different things that do not benefit the game.local makes botting easy.belt ratting makes botting easy.hauler missions make botting easy.null sec completely lacks any incentive to obtain low end minerals locally. shipping them in is far far more cost and energy effective.incursions provide far too much income, having become the new \"anom\" for null sec players (fly in to low sec, join incursion fleet, ???, profit).blops lack range and fuel storage space to be reasonable ships. they also have no use other than as a transport, meaning few people are willing to use one as it is generally no fun to click a button then listen to the rest of the fleet enjoy the rewards.ships with active rep bonuses waste a bonus for most pvp situations. making them generally less useful ships, especially the ones that are bad for pve.pulse and ac have insane tracking, impressive dps, and reasonable range making the use of anything else for cr-to-mr fights useless.armor is heavily favored by mechanics from implants, base resists, and buffer for anything bs sized and up in pvp (with the exception of a few bs that need the speed).make super carriers bigger. we should be able to pick them out on a battlefield to identify and kill far easier than we currently can.scrap the moa hull. its shear ugliness keeps people away, even if hybrids were useful."
"i think the biggest change to ship balance needs to be in how ccp approaches it, not in terms of a particular change to a particular class of ships. right now, ccp does a balance change about every 3 years to a given ship/gun. that's about 10x too long a cycle. if a class is fine, leave it alone by all means, but if a class is deeply problematic, then change it in steps, and regularly re-evaluate how your past changes are doing. the poster child for this is black ops - introduced three and a half years ago, with one nice-but-minor tweak in that time(ability to ignore cynojams). they're still the least commonly flown ship class in eve by far, despite being one of the most inherently cool. ccp should have a policy of looking at ships that are that hilariously underused every few months, and tweaking them upwards until balance is reached. no massive buffs that will leave them op like they did with motherships, but calm tweaks every few months, and watch the results. lack ops, say you give them a covops cloak, see if they're better three months later. if not, up their ehp by a quarter and wait another few months. it won't get them to the right level instantly, but if they were to do things this way then we sure as hell wouldn't be here three plus years later with them still being junk. this strongly implies that ccp should have a permanent balance team, or at least a \"balance dude\", to look at this stuff regularly and in depth, and not ad-hoc it like they have in past. of note, the above policy applies much more to buffs than nerfs. nerfs annoy players more, so they should be less common, and thus more impactful. the way that nanos and the falcon were nerfed were both good, at least procedurally. but for the usual suspects that people whine about needing a buff, small and regular tweaks should be the name of the game."
"wall of text as promised, i'll start at the lowest point and work down class by class:t1 frigates have three major issues - the tier system horribly cripples the lower tier frigates, several ship hulls are designed for roles that nobody wants (mining frigates are a case in point, as 'ineffective ship that newbies fly for a week until they can afford/operate a mining cruiser then never undock in again' isn't a valid role by anyone's standards), and other hulls have inappropriate bonuses for the ship's designated role - nobody flies a probing or ewar frigate for their damage output, so why do they even have weapon bonuses?i want variety in the t1 frigate range. i want to be able to tell goonwaffe newbies something other than 'crosstrain to minmatar frigate and autocannons because everything except rifters are crap'. i want gallente pilots to be thinking 'hmm, should i fly an atron or incursus for this gang' and there be definite pros and cons to each. i want to actually see a caldari frigate once in a while.t2 frigates - the existing interceptors monopolize most of the roles you'd want from a combat ship - speed and tackling aside, we have interceptors with damage bonuses, double damage bonuses, optimal bonuses, ehp bonuses, lots of guns. the purpose of the interceptor is poorly defined, and because of this it keeps treading on the toes of its cousins in the assault frigate and eaf classes, leaving them with few viable roles to move into that aren't already covered by a (faster, harder to hit) interceptor. also, inevitable '4th af bonus' comment goes here.the only real roles that the interceptor can't overlap on are those of the covert ops and stealth bomber, which apart from the pointless weapon bonuses on the covert ops hulls (see above) are arguably the best balanced t2 frigs available - jokes about the helios and its dronebay and lack of 3rd highslot aside, its an excellent reconnaissance ship.faction frigates: the dramiel is absurdly broken, the navy faction ships feel slightly underpowered.t1 destroyers fulfill a role nobody wants or needs - 'pitiful damage from a long way away' is not a useful contribution, and with the exception of easy mode level 1 missioning and suicide ganking shuttles and rookie ships in an artillery thrasher they're pointless. maybe they were useful before the hp buff in revelations(?), but that was, what, 5 years ago? they're too slow, too easy to hit, with not enough hitpoints, not enough damage output, and not enough utility slots. the catalyst in particular is a mess - combined falloff and optimal bonuses? ugh. make it a blaster and drone gankwagon, already.t2 destroyers are better balanced than their t1 equivalent - the sabre is arguably slightly overpowered but that's mainly a function of autocannons having such low grid and cpu requirements. the heretic and flycatcher are both usable, their main problem being fitting issues if you try to actually squeeze missile/rocket launchers onto them. the eris is a horrible abomination, however - split weapon systems including a pointless drone, and a lack of valuable midslots.t1 cruisers mostly balance out reasonably, and most of their disparities are actually with the modules they fit - the rupture dominated the fanfest pvp tournament but that was as much as anything to do with autocannon supremacy as the actual hulls. hybrid turret cruisers are bad because hybrid turrets are bad, non-ecm e-war cruisers are bad because non-ecm e-war is bad. the hulls themselves are reasonably usable."
"faction cruisers have some real dogs amongst their ranks  how many of us have forgotten that the navy osprey or scythe fleet issue even existed until we saw them on the ship browser window of eft, our failed theorycrafting attempts at 'there must be some way to make this thing viable' mocking us silently? the cynabal is perhaps slightly over the top, but certainly not a priority issue, nowhere near as overpowered as the dramiel is .t3 cruisers aren't something i'm too familiar with, but the legion is by all accounts vastly inferior to the other three and there's a bunch of no-brainer subsystem configurations (with their corresponding 'hahaha why would you ever fit this' mirrors). also, 5th subsystem already!t1 battlecruisers are where we see the worst offences of the tiering system, with the possible exception of the brutix the tier 1s are all dreadful piles of garbage that nobody in their right mind would undock except for comedy lossmail purposes. they badly need a viable niche that isn't 'expendable bait'. conversely, the tier 2s themselves are actually fairly well matched to each other, all having viable combat roles.t2 battlecruisers are, again not a class i have too much experience with, except to say that as mentioned earlier itt they have suffered in the command ship role by the appearance of t3 command cruisers outperforming their bonusing role whilst sitting in a safespot impossible to probe.t1 battleships, like t1 cruisers, are mostly good or bad depending on whether their primary weapon system is good or bad. the fotm metagame currently leans towards laser platforms and projectile platforms (and sometimes projectile turrets fitted on supposedly laser platforms!), so reviving the rokh, megathron and hyperion would largely depend on what happens to hybrids. there is an issue with the hyperion and maelstrom receiving active tanking bonuses in an environment where remote repping reigns supreme over local repping, but this is relatively minor.t2 battleships see their worst offences amongst the blackops class, which is supposedly a combat ship with a portal ability but in practise came so badly pre-nerfed that they can barely fight a combat and barely portal. the widow is usable in a support role, mostly due to its jamming capabilities, but the rest need help. increase their combat capabilities (good t2 resists as mentioned earlier in this thread would be a good start) and increase their portal/jump range. marauders seem to mostly work as intended, with the same issue around weapon systems as t1 cruisers and battleships."
"capitals, as i said in the other thread, are currently thrown way out of line by the absurd overpowering of supercarriers. 0.0 has become a 1 dimensional arms race of who can field the most nyxes. dreadnoughts and carriers can now only operate after you have counted your opponents supercaps and confirmed that you have more than they do. supercarriers are dying at an unprecedented rate, yes, but when they do its almost always to larger packs of other supercarriers.supercarriers, the nyx and aeon especially, have 3 main advantages over other shiptypes - the massive ehp buffer, massive variation in their primary weapon type, and the large number of utility slots. these things combine to produce a ship which can omni-fit against any circumstance with little in the way of drawbacks. that isn't balanced, nor is it particularly fun, and it has come to dominate the capital warfare scene. some relatively modest nerfs to the three advantages i mentioned above would go a long way to bring them back under control.oddly enough, even titans aren't particularly overpowered by themselves  the removal of the aoe doomsday increased their vulnerability to dictors and subcaps, as did the capital gun buff in dominion (because they now are encouraged to fit xl turrets or launchers in the highs rather than smartbombs and neuts, and damage mods in the lows which compromise their tank and/or capacitor). if every supercarrier was deleted from the server database tomorrow dreadnoughts and carriers would be mostly balanced, as they would no longer be rendered obsolete as sov-grinding tools and anti-capital vessels, whilst retaining some vulnerability to subcapital fleets. some minor tweaks to them (the 5 minute siege cycle, for example) would be welcome, but the main issue of imbalance amongst capitals right now is the omnipotance of supercarriers."
"the information warfare link modules currently suffer from a stacking penalty. the gang bonuses, implants and skills that go into them become worthless for anyone already fitting any modules to boost the same stats."
"+1! while i acknowledge that some ship classes have basically been obsoleted (or were never truly viable), i would contend that the primary culprit is the ship tier system. in that spirit, i think the most egregious flaws in high level ship balance are:- "
"this sums it up very well.-currently, there is no reason for anyone to fly lower tier frigates, lower tier cruisers or lower tier bcs (in general). this includes, amongst others, things like the slasher, atron, executioner, condor, breacher, bellicose, omen, maller, celestis, moa, ferox, prophecy, brutix for various reasons.-additionally, the whole class of hybrid ships, gallente blaster boats and caldari railgun boats, are almost never used. they all have serious fitting problems and their weapons are mostly outclassed by all the others.-as mentioned elsewhere, the lower navy ships, scythe, osprey, exequror are all outclassed by higher tier t1 ships.-the question of op ships is one that should be very carefully considered, as, for example, nerfing the dramiel, the cynabel or the machariel might make them next to useless. a small nerf perhaps, but not much. likewise, although the drake is considered op due to its high resists, big tank, independence of cap and the huge range of heavy missiles, a nerf might make it substandard.tl;dr, the most obvious imbalances, like the lower tier ships and hybrids should be looked at first as these are the most pressing and rebalances should be done on a ship by ship basis, not whole classes.p.s. although i don't fly them, obligatory nerf supercaps and buff minnie and caldari caps."
"which is why putting a covert ops cloaking device on a battleship would be insanely over powered. there is too much cloaking going on in this game anyways. a covert ops cloak should not be the answer to fixing ships."
"unless the ship in question is designed to be used in cloaky gangs, where every other ship has a covops cloak. then it seems like a pretty sensible answer. vile: if you would fly a covops cloaked panther all the time, you have vastly more money than sense."
"in ccp speak this means disable reprocessing of meta 0 items. but yes, if the low end minerals could be levelled up in units/m3 to compete with abc for profit it would hopefully get mined locally."
"kill the static jump networks and make outposts upgradeable to station standards."
"how about this for burning crops and fields.allow small gangs the ability to incapacitate i-hub upgrades. make the upgrades target-able like station services (with way less hp of course), so small groups can have large effects on the residents of that system. by doing so they could for example stymie anomaly income or interrupt super cap construction. or break key legs in a jump bride network.if the hp was low enough for small groups to incapacitate it would also be easy for the residents rep as well. which will allow more opportunities for pvp.in my mind, more goals for small groups means more conflict and for the residents it means more conflict (or headaches depending on your perspective). and more conflict is good for everybody in eve."
"what i would hate to see is things that are basically something with x amount of hit points so blobbing it is the most effective way of doing the burning of the crops and fields. i also would like it where the industrialist could somehow grow these things in a way to maybe cater a bit towards a home field advantage. maybe like a script or something that changes the aspects of the grid it is on.example not to be taken super serious on specifics but hopefully you get the idea:you got some guys who want to mine/farm/whatever bears do with industrial **** and when they go to plant it, they put in a script that nerfs remote repair **** and boosts local reps or increases speed but reduces lock range or something. make it dynamic. also if they ignore the raiders and the raiders are able to burn the field (which can grow back or whatever, just don't want to see something being permanently destroyed) then maybe the associated resource or category it is related to is not as profitable.anyone get the vibe of that?"
"first - don't let this be hijacked into another jb / distance thread. stick that where the sun doesn't shine. you got the true sec 0.0 nerf you freakin carebear so stfu. go inhabit some abandoned renter system.moving on to the optwo sepearate questions, where one solution is not necessarily going to get you there. if you want a response on the first half, in my opinion your problems come down to refining in null sec and availability of empire minerals. the former might be addressed by a more competitive / functional refining array for pos, refining at a pos is lol. the folks that have refining stations in system will continue to use them, youre alliance hc (all alliance hcs for that matter) will probably steer you away from this because they will fear that youll get less income from the refining taxes, so we can just pretend i never brought this up. but if they have half a brain, theyre probably realizing the true null sec nerf is going to cost them a good chunk of renter business and they might be able to get more mining folks to take up some space.the latter could be addressed by increasing the volume of empire minerals available in null sec. honestly, you just dont have enough low end rocks to be free null sec players from the empire markets even if you have a solid industry division. theres no possible way youre going to be able to pull up enough trit / mex / pye / iso to sustain a corp or alliance. we sell our high ends in empire and get our low ends via compression. mind you i dont necessarily think you will ever be able to do it and i dont think youre trying to get to total disconnect but more self sufficiency. that being said, stations arent broken, pos for construction are working as intended. ccp could implement a pretty descent fix ( and in their eyes, descent usually means cheap) by jacking up the size of the empire rocks null sec. dont jack em up in grav sites, make the pvp folks happy, jack em up in belts instead. the other alternative is dramatically increase the hauler spawn rates. another cheap fix for ccp, something quick and easy so they can go back to doing stuff like walking in stations, the stuff most of us dont care about.last, youre asking two very distinct questions which in reality only have a chance at creating a single solution. if youre going to try to solve for x, try creating two separate threads and evaluating responses to see if there is an overlap. enjoy your giant threadnaught that will probably accomplish nothing."
"using hacking skill and maybe new skills you could make it so small gangs/individual saboteurs can cripple the crops and fields for a small amount of time, or until someone with other science skills comes along to repair the damage."
"i havent been much to nullsec, but still some ideas might be useful.1. get those ore faction tower or better get ore faction versions of refining arrays. those arrays shall be fueled like the tower and are self dependent on cpu and power. production arrays working the same way could help getting more production slots.2. provide a pass-key for a free passage trading run. i.e. you ask an alliance whether you enter once to fly to an npc station and back to high sec. you'll be set for 24 hrs to blue. the pass key cost you a small fee measured on a collateral the alliance pays. the collateral will be a protection that no one who is blue to you can shoot you without the consequences as you pay for a free passage. those pass key's should be pre-defineable and transferable. so a courier contract in jita could provide a free passage as well. the pass key could either work for the blue territory or for blue members. my favorite is the territory as the alliance would then be responsible for your safety.3. next to moon mining it should be possible to use a moon to provide ore's as well. a skill similar like pi could be interesting. you scan a moon for places of certain ore concentrations. the better the skill the better you can scan for ore (i think to use the pi skill for that is not such a bad idea). next skill would be new one. you plant explosives on the moon area. that explosives could release a small belt in to the space. the higher the skill for the explosions the cleaner the belt and the bigger it gets. skill at 1 is much more trit. skill at 5 and more high mins could get extracted.4. from what ive heard the structures to find mining belts are much harder to maintain as for getting rats. equal those with the ratting structures. getting more and better fields i.e. you dont have to mine as much for getting them to lvl 5."
"change gravimetric sites to where players can build structures inside them. take a page from pi, but allow us to blow it up instead of fps players. scan down a grav site, and setup a mobile command center inside it. at that point it becomes a static entity which stays put until the command center is destroyed.a mobile command center allows you to build extractor units for the large asteroids inside the site. it also allows you to setup a basic production chain. and finally, setup a basic defensive grid that'll make solo players dead if they try to take it head on, but a small gang of players should be able to clear out with no major problems.add in a few sizes of mobile command centers for larger production chains and greater defensive arrays for larger gangs of players to kill. for scalable difficulty & rewards.after that, give the attackers a few different choices of what they wanna do. they could bring in haulers and a hacking module then try to steal everything in the hopper. they could destroy it all. they could do a bit of both.tie keeping the mobile command centers up and running with fuel back into pi/dust making the fpsers even more important to the game.keep in mind, i don't know if this should be done at all. anything like this. putting more and more of the onus of production on nullsec so people aren't dependent on highsec will be the single largest sweeping change to eve ever made. yes it could make 0.0 better, but it could also break empire space.whatever system or choice you decide on, make it clear to ccp that this should not be an expansion in its own right. it should be a very very careful iteration of allowing some things to be built in nullsec easily, let a few months pass so everyone can get used to new market balance, and add a few more. repeat."
"scorched earth:lets see what 0.0 resources are:- moons- asteroids- npc's- plexes/anomolies- piall these factors should be able to be affected. currently, the only way to deny the enemy these resources is to take over the system (ie sov warfare or lolafkcloaker in some cases). there are no mechanics for smaller properly organised groups to disrupt these, or if strong enough to apply any \"burning of the fields\" tactics.there should be ways to use existing skills/ships/modules to disrupt these or with the use of a new ship. it should be balanced enough to give defenders a chance to protect their assets but not require a huge fleet to attack. the scorched earth policy should also be available to defenders if they wish to deny attackers any resources.[unrefined] examples: - irradiating moons so they cannot be mined for x-days/weeks/months. - destroying asteroid belts- lowering military index- bombarding planets (or using dust players to destroy pi facilities)independence from jita:i think this is a deeper \"problem\" more related to economical sense than wanting to be independent. to be able to be truly independent from jita you need a ton of organising to be able to have the market diversity that jita offers, at the prices jita offers. this could only exist in 0.0 if there was incentive to actually produce items there instead of reselling from jita. only a highly organised alliance in which some players have all the bpo's and access to all the required resources could really rival jita. and then again, they have to be able to make a profit. the only way i can see this happening is by streamlining the access to resources. t2 is the defacto tech level to have in 0.0., and while minerals are easy to get to build the t1 items, getting moon materials is another story. alliances/corporations tend to find it easier to sell their resources directly to jita as it is much simpler.when it comes to making a profit, the mass-majority of players will always tend to go for the simpler ways to do things. ---------will expand on things later---------"
"once we can tag an item with who build it add depth/ simplicity to the 0.0 areas by making ships made in 0.0 have to stay in 0.0. if they go into hisec they get a criminal tag unless you pay concord to register the ship. if this is done you can tweak the blueprints for 0.0 made items to use less ore. or purchase whole books of lower level bpc that cannot be used to manufature in hs."
"scorched earthit's easy to make a list of stuff that needs to be \"breakable\" to hurt someone. one thing i think has been done wrong so far is how this is done (structure grind). the game mechanical background you have is that you want a balance between making it possible for an attacker to do some bad stuff within a reasonable timeframe, but also for the defender to have a chance to set up a defense fleet. structure grind tries to establish this \"reasonable timeframe\" with a hp count, but that does not work, as \"moar dps\" will just totally wipe it out. to make it impossible to just run through with 50 bs and kill everything in 5 minutes, the hp count is big enough to tank that, but that makes it impossible to do anything bad with 20 hacs.drop hp grind. replace it with timers (yes, i'm serious). you park your fleet next to a target, maybe activate a module on it, and then you wait 10, 20, 30, 60 minutes, whatever is deemed a \"reasonable timeframe\". after that time the thing is broken and defenders have to do a similar doohicky to fix it again. factional warfare uses this, and when you manage to get past all the bugs, problems and misfeatures (like, one frigging tells you when an attack is starting so you can't actually defend), the mechanic works really well.so you can move in with a 5-ship fleet and disable the pirate magnet at the ihub by sitting next to it for 15 minutes. if you get attacked in that time, the disruption stops, etc. if you don't, the defenders have to put in some major work to repair it (say, sit next to it for 30 minutes or something).moon miners and other resource-creating things (customs offices?) could even drop some of their yield to you. sit next to moon miner with the moon mining hacking tool and you get some of the moon yield from the silo every 5 minutes until someone stops you. for example, you get the yield of 1h every 5 minutes, so if you can stay for 2h every day you steal their whole moon goo income. no need to repair anything, even. (exact numbers need some major thinking through, obviously.)independence from jitathis is difficult, because you will have to compete with a much larger market. i'll say something about this below, but as it will include \"make logistics more difficult\", i'll mention the other stuff first so people who rage at me for that will read the other stuff ;-)give the expensive ore in 0.0 sufficient quantities of low-end minerals so it's not sensible to just mine high-ends and import low-ends from jita, but to have all the minerals in 0.0 already when you're done mining.then, remove the whole region-specific stuff. if you want stuff to happen in 0.0, then it must be possible for an alliance to produce most if not all things themselves based on the resources of a region. all moon minerals, all sorts of ice, etc. etc. need to be available for your alliance, in sufficient quantities, in the one region you call home. while trade is good, the second you add trade, you make it easier for an alliance to run to jita than to do anything else. trade should be an option to avoid local work, not a necessity.but in the end, i'm afraid that \"effort of logistics\" seems to be the only real factor i can see to balance this out - regardless what else you do, you end up with a much smaller group of people competing with a much bigger one, which just won't work out (even the whole nc is 40k accounts total, jita has 1/40th of that logged into the system at any point).the problem here is \"ease of logistics\" on multiple levels. not only the ease of logistics from jita to 0.0, but also the ease of logistics to jita. autopiloting freighters bring goods to jita every day, and that's trivial effort to get the results from jita. make logistics to jita more difficult and you reduce the competition of any single market spot.anything that makes it desirable for players to spread out and not stick in any one system will reduce the competition that 0.0 has to fight against. usage-dependent dynamic agent quality, dynamic factory/research cost, and dynamic sales taxes in empire space would all work towards making it easier to compete with jita."
"now that is an interesting idea to kill jita/balance trade hubs"
"reduce material reqs of outpost factory upgrades to a more attractive level, increase slots available. possibly do the same with research slots.for farms and fields add 'solar collector' small gang targets. sov-dependent structures which will be the basis for your pos fuel discount, also jb fuel use. anchored near stars, need to be probed down. one or two per sov level, need max # to reach same fuel discount as currently available. have limited shield and armor ehp, significant structure hp in a similar way to pos guns - so you can disable them with limited effort or destroy easily with large bs gang/caps.must be repped within 1 1/2 - 2 hours or are stuck offline for 20 hours after which they can be repaired at any time. obviously while offline/reinforced you lose your discount.either omni-resists or racial variations. not visible on overview, must be probed down. cost twice, (more?) than a tcu but no bill associated with them."
"dynamic npc fees for the market and industrial slots would certainly make spreading out more appealing but depending on how strong that factor is it might prove really annoying in the long run. not saying it would be bad to try but just reminding everyone the consequences of actively discouraging trade hubs are going to be far reaching and not nesc intended. independence there are five problems i know of for 0.0 industry: mineral balance, t2 material shortage, t3 material shortage, industrial index, and capacity issues in general. there might be more but i am only going to offer comment on things i've dealt with directly (and before zastrow freaks again, yes ive run a small 0.0 alliance, oversaw noir. holding 4 outposts in provi for over 6 months and trying to rebuild the market there, and more). mineral balance: as mentioned above, over abundance of high ends and not enough low ends because of natural player tendencies to want to spend time mining the roids with the highest value. increase the yield of low end minerals in ark/bist/etc would be the simplest solution. some kind of process where you can turn high ends into low ends would be another (the opposite of the alchemy system). some nerf to compression will probably be needed to balance this out so the empire markets arnt crashed.t2 material shortage: regardless if you have enough mineral income to build tons of t1 ships, seeding your 0.0 market with t2 items/ships without importing from empire is ******edly hard. and given that t2 fits if not t2 ships are practically required for robust modern pvp, thats a serious problem. as a poster above mentioned, this is because not only is the t2 production chain complicated but it cant be done from the resources of one region, possibly even two regions, and certainly not to any degree of scale. a way to facilitate the exchange of or straight up acquisition of moon minerals and reactions between 0.0 regions would be needed. a simplification of the production process, at least a little, would probably help.t3 material shortage: wormholes are awesome, and t3 are fun to fly. unfortunately the wh ihub upgrade is woefully underpowered and even at level 5 the increase in wh frequency is marginal. increase the effect of the wh upgrade, increase the volume of material that can be acquired and then put to use by alliances which choose to put t3 in their crop rotation.indy index: its extremely hard to build up and maintain compared to the military one, and the level 4 and 5 mining upgrades are not as isk/hour good as the level 3. the difficulty level needs to be adjusted and the higher end indy sites could use a look.capacity: once the resource issue is solved, 0.0 will need more slots and tools to handle the production side of this. yes you can sorta do it with pos but they are annoying, require permissions, and are otherwise inefficient. pos manufacturing capabilities being made streamlined and perhaps adding more efficient production modules that can only be anchored at a certain sov level (similar to csaa) would be ways to go. another way would be push through the outpost upgrade cost reduction that was supposed to come with dominion and look at tweaking the upgrade trees to allow for more competitive services compared empire."
"burning all that **** i just mentionedsystem scanner functionality: not directly related to indy but related to ihub upgrades. 30s and 4au range is a pretty swift kick in the pants to roamers and pretty much necessitates a t3 cov ops +probes configuration to have a remotely competitive chance to land on someone before they dock/pos. requiring a 500mil isk ship just to level the playing field is a pretty high barrier of entry. shortening the timer and possibly increasing the range would increase the chances for success while still affording more protection for the npcer than belt ratting (and would be more convenient for carebears as well since they need to scan for anomalies too)incapacitate pos industry mods: moving mods outside of the pos shield is an old idea but not a bad one. ihubs: i am actually against allowing roaming gangs to disable parts of the ihub. ive gone back and forth on this but degrading the index i feel should be the way to reduce the advantages from the upgrades. perhaps a look at the rate of degradation on the military index and a way to lower the strategic index instead (timer mechanic would work here). wormholes: buffing the wh ihub upgrade will not only increase t3 material availability but for those alliances that choose to install it they will be opening up more ways for small groups of harassers to gain access to their space, potentially with little to no warning. risk/reward at its finest. outpost services: till we get wreckable outposts (please seleene?) were going to have to deal with the proliforation of things that allow you to be perfectly safe inside them and offer a wide range of convenient services which will hopefully be easily upgradable to well past empire utility. people can attack them but would need a pos takedown fleet to do it in a reasonable amount of time. pos takedown fleets dont really lend themselves to riding around the country side setting fire to crops. what we have now is something that takes forever to incapacitate and forever to repair. what we should have are services that are very low hp so they can be incapd and repaired in one playing session by a small group of players. this will drive conflict since downed services are inconvenient but attacking them is not while not griefing defenders too badly since they can easily repair damaged services once attackers are driven away/leave."
"ratting ideachange rat bounties and mission bounties to tags.set npc buy orders for rat bounty tags in empire. set npc buy orders for mission bounty tags in low sec/null sec.this would hinder bot-ratting (no more auto cash) and create trade routes between high-sec/low-sec/null-sec. sell your tags locally to players at market rates, or import/export to other sectors (e.g., transport rat bounties to empire) for better npc prices.industry ideasadd some kind of refining/compression capability to certain mining/industrial ships, like the compression that rorq has. introduce it as a tier 2 orca hull. this would allow small gangs to go mining without station access or pos rights, and reduce the need to tie into refinery stations in null sec.add an inefficient but viable production/processing ability to an industrial hull (orca or rorq). again, small teams could process ore and/or rat loot on the fly, perhaps limited to certain items (ammo, basic mods, etc.). this would allow small corps to explore null-sec without substantial logistics to get in and out of empire. it would also permit industrialists to do more than just mine and rat, even if they lack access to a nearby pos or station. the mobile refining, production, etc. would have to be less efficient on the ship than in a pos or station.v0v"
"putting on my indy hat from 0.0:- echoing the earlier comment, there are simply not enough low end roids in 0.0 to make a dent into the amount of trit / pyer / mex necessary for production. whoo, 100k veldspar roids in the grav spawns, yeah? for instance, change the super-massive spodumain spawn in level 1 grav sites over to massive veldspar, scordite, and pyrox spawns. while it would be good to put those low-end roids in the normal belts, it prevents the ability to respawn which could be problematic. i would even go so far as to suggest making level 1 wholesale full of low ends. the bummer is that players are largely protected in the grav sites but the respawn mechanic is probably necessary unless the fields spawn amazing wtf numbers on the roids each night. - alternatively, tweak the high end mineral chart. you get a pittance of of low ends from the high end ore. perhaps even add in new ore to further tweak the system. take say the info from cerlestes:arkonor yields 0.09 of trit versus veldspar which yields 30+. tweak say your mid-high tier versions (gneiss, spod) to yield on par with scord or veld in terms of trit, pyer, or mex per 1 m3. or upgrade ark, bist, and crok to anywhere from 1-4 trit, pyer, or mex per m3 rather than the puny amounts they yield now. low trit / pyer / mex yields means import from jita, plain and simple. - way, way, way more manufacturing slots at stations. stations slots are ideal in that they do not require working through the god awful pos role management. pos role management is probably too much to ask for. slots on the order of +30, +50, or +100 would be a good start. the station becomes the default access for low tier industrialists and the hard core can use the pos which has the benefit of a time bonus. - big thumbs up to the notion of time-based disruptions rather than hp grinds. the fellow from agony unleashed had a good concept with the notion of a player-created incursion. toss that in with a dose of being able to steal moon goo / pi loot from the system and that becomes full of awesome:"
"i think there should be more hauler spawn income and less bounty income. these anoms should include a few hauler spawn sites. less isk sinks, easier production in null sec."
"fwiw: i am a small-time small ship manufacturer located in 0.0.- most of the minerals i get are imported from highsec, as are much manufacturers simply because it is wiser for a miner to operate in highsec, risk free, than it is to gain very little more in null for a much higher risk. players will follow the easiest money; if it is more profitable to mine lower-tier asteroids than higher-tier asteroids, they will go for the lower-tier.my simple suggestion would be to make 'roids have much more (or less) minerals in them, based on sec status?, and to drastically increase the amount of minerals that can be mined every cycle. the supply problem is a large issue because it's expensive to import minerals, and as said by a previous poster, why bother importing minerals and creating things for a sliver of profit when you can just import the actual item? miners will always provide a \"farms and field\" mechanic, they are nice juicy targets for any roaming gang, in lowsec or 0.0. if you wish for the manufacturing and mining community to be decentralized, rather than highsec as it is currently, the risk/reward factor of nullsec/lowsec mining should be relooked. - station slots should be increased. caldari, and un-upgraded amarr outposts have a pitiful amount of research/build slots, compared to what a medium to large sized alliance full of high-skilled manufacturers can use. to add an amount of risk to relatively secure stations, station service hp can be reduced to a level where it may only take a medium to large sized gang only 5-10 minutes to put down. pos research/building is fine, but some more incentives should be offered to augment the risk of losing everything. increasing the amount of station slots also increases the amount of isk that can be trapped in stations taken by enemies in a war. this can introduce a \"supply line\" mechanic, as capturing an alliance's production hub can cripple their ability to fight long, bloody wars, as well as remove a very important income source.- a way to destroy or disable ratting, complex, and mining upgrades on the ihub, much like station services should be implemented. if the farmers leave their fields undefended, the raiders should be able to disable or destroy their income source. ratters/miners should be punished for posing up, running away, and providing no resistance whatsoever.- i don't have much experience with t2/t3 stuff, but the current pos mechanics for moon goo and supercap production seem to provide a lot of risk (losing your entire haul if you don't time your pos correctly/don't show up to defend it) for a lot of reward (billions upon billions of isk), making them fair and balanced. - the plain and simple reason why jita/highsec is the base for all industrialization activity is because it is more profitable to build in a centralized place in a safe area, rather than in decentralized areas around the universe. nerfing jump freighters and jump bridges is just attacking a symptom of the problem, rather than attacking the actual problems."
"make ore in null sec yield double the minerals that of empire variations. and low sec 50% more, as it stands the bottle neck for production in null sec is often trit and pyrite. miners have no reason to mine trit in lower sec if it is the same profit as empire (where they can do afk much safer). got to have some kind of worthwhile crop outside of death stat moon pos's in order to worry about how to attack them.ideas for stations as well, a basic station should have close to the same slots and ability's as those of npc's, a upgraded one should have increasing number of slots. that and ability to set up more stations in a system."
"- change mineral volumes, so that trit is 1/1,000,000 m3 or so(and scale it up accordingly, so that the high-ends are fairly bulky still). this eliminates mineral compression and makes actual ingots of minerals the most efficient way to move minerals arou"
"the problem with commerce in nullsec is a matter of access. you can't dock without standings and you can't travel through with the kinds of ships that make it worth the effort (freighters) without a massive fleet in support. therefore, alliances tend to focus on being self-sufficient and seeding their own markets. prices for things are often way out of hand because of the high-demand/low-supply situation. administratively, most alliances manage this by adopting jita-price standards and punishing members who gouge. a possible solution: add a few contiguous high-security systems into each of the regions that adjoin empire space. go even further and establish npc-controlled cyno-generators in those hubs that only jump freighters can use. commerce should be reasonably open to all."
"is the possibility of nerfing the **** out of highsec industry at the same time as buffing nullsec industry likely to be on the table here?"
"hmm is this one of those stupid assembly hall threads you were talking about?"
"in my experience, t1 production can be reasonably done in null-sec. however, outside of a select bc/bs hulls, and a very limited number of mods, most t1 items just aren't used. additionally, the limit of low-end minerals makes mining for bs manufacturing extremely hard! t2 production in null sec just doesn't happen much. bringing t2 bpo's into nullsec is typically not worth the risk, and invention requires a significant influx of other materials that you typically can't get locally (decryptors & datacores). when competing with hi-sec services, null-sec is at a disadvantage. this is reversed from what it aught to be. if the resources for complete t2 production where available locally, then maybe nullsec industry would have a better chance. potential ideas for fixing this: 1.) make more low end minerals available locally. 2.) make more invention materials available locally. 3.) allow null-sec station services to be upgradeable to hi-sec quality (or better). 4.) make hisec-nullsec travel more risky.... i.e. move the jb system to the ihub (i.e. at a planet away from pos protection!). 5.) make industry upgrades more effective/profitable! 6.) this is way out there: tariffs?? empire fee for moving modules between empire regions with a tariff free nullsec?? i doubt this can be simply implemented, and is more trouble than its worth... i'm sure there are much better ideas on how to improve null-sec industry!"
"i'm not at all an industrialist, so this may be a completely ******ed observation, but i haven't seen anyone else mention it. from what i understand, t2 production requires datacores. these datacores are only available from research agents in empire. is that not a fairly significant hurdle to establishing an industrially independent null-sec?"
"i have a whole giant proposal on nullsec reform over at f&i on this topic (industrialization, small gangs, everything else). where's my x-prize from ccp?"
"i don't think these suggestions create the small-gang targets null-sec needs. the truth is, most pve stops the moment a gang enters system. and rightfully so, as most pve ships just aren't capable of fighting a small pvp gang. besides, most gangs want fights, not ganks. so the real question is, how do you motivate the pve members of nullsec to form up and fight the incoming gang? atm, there is little motivation for the pve'ers not to safe up and make some tea. the dilemma of space farms/structures: --small gangs don't like shooting structures. what do they get for it?.... --if the structures are too destructible, pve'ers wont use them. --if they have too many hitpoints or are too defended, pvpers wont shoot them. --if they are too easily repaired, pveers wont defend them. this is where my corp mate suggested an interesting new idea that builds on incursion mechanics. player created incursions -- basic gist, a deployable device that will create incursion effects in a system unless the defenders prevent it from onlining. ratters either defend their space, or deal with decreased bounties, resists, dps for the next day or so... link on agony websitefeatures & ideas link"
"i'm not a resident of nullsec, but here's my two cents: i don't make raids into nullsec for the simple fact it isn't profitable. unless you can catch a few loners off guard, nullsec mechanics are such that it isn't worth the time or money usually.farms and fields are all good (i could care less if nullsec is self-sufficient, you'd think it would be), but nobody is going to bother attacking such resources except competing sov corps. if you want outsiders to try and cause havoc (small gang pvp, pirates, etc) there needs to be some form of income.interruption of i-hubs...good idea for strategy, but again, only sovs will engage in this. i like it, but why not make the upgrades targetable and destructible - which allows them to be looted or salvaged in some way. scenario: gang from low-sec or even high-sec decides to make a raid into nullsec on an ihub they think is vulnerable for the purposes of some big money (but with big risk). the upgrades should only require a small gang (5 pilots about) to destroy, but should have a safety feature such as warning the owner corp or having a failsafe shield that gives defenders potentially enough time to drive them off. lazy corps will lose modules, on their toes corps will save them.ideas like this will encourage the use of cov ops ships (oh no! the black ops might have a use again if balanced) and add an additional element of risk/reward in nullsec that all players, large corp or not, can enjoy. farms ought to be relatively easy to maintain, provided they are protected. this is the distant future, but apply basic warfare ideology: only critical structures were ever inside walls (pos) such as food storage, armory, and maybe a smithy to repair broken arms. production itself was outside the walls usually, as well as non-important storage. they were vulnerable, true, but trying to build a wall large enough to encompass them was too expensive and left the wall under-powered. use this ideology on pos and nullsec in general, and you'll see a lot more activity from non-nullsec residents."
"perhaps make deployable miners that players need to defend from other players (and rats too i guess)gives the defenders something to do, gives the attackers something to shoot down and at the same time players to kill and also provides a localised source of minerals for manufacturers that doesnt require players to mindlessly mine **** all day.give it a reasonable amount of hp so it cant be alphaed, but not enough that the defenders dont need remote rep support to keep it alive for the duration of the engagement. the rest can be worked out by game designers i guess"
"ccp zinfandel will be talking to the csm for an hour about ccp's marketing efforts related to eve. what advice would you want us to give him about seducing unsuspecting gamers into paying for the privilege of being podded? and what honey could he set out to lure back the elusive bittervet?"
"eve evolves, other gameworlds are staticeve player base is 80% mature, with majority of the player base possessing college education and above. a lot of students play eve in their spare time, a lot of adult males enjoy eve after work. this means that mental capacities of the players are above average, enemies are more intelligent and game is more challenging.it means that eve community is unique, intelligent, friendly, sarcastic, vicious, savage. but not dull, reserved, grinding, lone.finally there is no end game, over 5 years time you become more valuable and not loose purpose. over that time the challenge remains in the game, since regardless of skill points and equipment, the maximum multiplier is never above 400%. and the most exquisite setups are easy to counter. eve is a game of cooperation, not skill and item grinding."
"if you are good enough, you don't have to pay irl"
"edit: multiple posting as it told me i was going too fast :/"
"edit: as above. the proper post is below this one."
"thisextending galnet into the real world internet, as was done with the now disappeared duvolle labs website getaclone.com, would not only make the depth and flavour of eve's lore more accessible to players, it would also open the world to those who may not otherwise encounter it."
"hire a studio to do a serious of five minute episodes on cartoon network and/or sci-fi channel like clone wars."
"made in-game."
"eve will market better if bra-only can be reintroduced, only in a limited fashiongo go bars will attract a lot of people in incarna, naked bodies pay to see"
"i really don't want to sound bitter, but a good start would be to have functioning content and proper dev cycles at older content. this way you can get player's commenting on the game in a positive manner rather then moaning cous half of the released content is broker or unfinished.for me, i feel ashamed to spend time/money on this game in it's current state. that's hardly good advertising. if someone asks me how eve is, i'll tell them the truth and 9/10 times they wont even want to try. :/so yeah, good marketing can only come when the management takes off in a good direction for a change. suckering in people with empty promises and lying about working game content isn't the smartest thing to do."
"ccp needs to revise its seo and web marketing approach. i get \"try eve\" ads on all sorts of web sites, obviously picking me up as a visitor to this site, etc. preaching to the choir is less than ideal as a marketing strategy."
"full 20 minute eps using carbon based char rendering like we saw so much of at fan fest, in game rendering of space battles. but the key is this: base the stories off eve's history. not the in game fluff, i mean the main selling point of the game: player generated drama in 0.0you have like 7 years worth of material to draw from. animate the great northern war i keep hearing about that spawned bob+the nc. bring to life the contrast of bob and ascn, and the epic conflict that saw the first titans created and destroyed. tell the world of how mercenary coalition brought the dagger right to the neck of the nc. draw viewers in to the circumstances around the betrayal and disbanding of bob and the rise of goonswarm. youd have to adapt some things to bring everything into the world of eve but the characters and the stories are right there and more material is being created every day!most of the players involved at the big scale are still around or at least alive. i have no doubt theyd be willing to sit down to interviews or otherwise help fill in the gaps for the writers to help promote the game (and their own legend). you might get the occasional objection of people not liking how theyre portrayed but i suspect anything more serious than whining would be infrequent if not singular. heros, villains, who cares were on tv! plus eve lends itself to the kind of writing and character development where the distinction of good guys vs bad guys isnt always so clear...dont even worry about putting it on actual tv yet. distribute online, via a site and/or youtube. the existing eve community will be all over each new episode like a fat girl on cake allowing you to show an existing audience which will help get the show on other platforms.you want to talk competitive advantage. no other mmo is doing this. no other mmo really *could* do this in a meaningful way because they dont have the single shard mature universe ccp has developed. put the effort into making it look as good as clear skies if not better using the engine youre using for incarna, and we will soon stop measuring your customer base in hundreds of thousands. well start talking millions."
"when i suggest eve to friends, i often get the \"i've heard [insert threadnought topic] about eve, why would i pay for that?\" it would be nice to say \"they fixed that!\" more often when replying to the bad press eve has had.to be clear, eve has some trouble with word of mouth, other marketing is kinda silly until ccp does something to fix its image in the gaming community.ways to do this:1. in-game videos that include elements of the game that people have complained about and ccp has fixed.2. in-game videos of fleet fights running without lag handling 800+ combatants. that visual with a \"in game footage\" should carry a lot of weight. it was what drew me back to the game after its rocky start.really, a lot of bitter old vets get focused on the \"but i want to be able to have 2000+ involved in a fight\" and forget that new players will likely not be involved in this before they are hooked by the amazing stuff earlier on. basically, eve needs to showcase how well it does work and put that in front of people who were turned off from the game by something they heard years ago.for all the bitter old vet talk, they are hooked and obviously expect things to get better or they wouldn't still be playing. the wonders that have all of us hooked need to be broadcast to potential new players. to counter complaints about the extreme cases that are experienced later in the game."
"the best comment i've heard on eve lately is that it's a bad game that the players make good. nobody is going to write odes to the mission system, and even the bots get bored mining. but the rise and fall of empires is inherently compelling, as is a great scam or a well-run tourney. play that up. there's a reason why the butterfly effect video was one of our favourites. stuff like that is just about the only sensible reason to actually play this game. also, eve is an eight year old game with the polish of a beta. if you change that fact, word of mouth will be your friend."
"tell him and ccp to read eve game mails"
"this. i get paranoid when eve ads follow me across the internet. it's pretty damn ridiculous too, since i already play.but most importantly, ccp's marketing needs to realise that game marketing is mostly done by word of mouth. ccp being more attentive to details in releases (i.e. less bugs), iterating on old ignored features and engaging more with the player base here on eve-o would be a great place to start.finally, as someone above said, small internet videos of in-game combat from players would be a greatway to attract players. mining less so, and never ever mention pi or else ccp'll never get another customer."
"craptastic ui, annoying anchoring timers, more specific roles for security, permit cans in the arrays and let us remotely check if ammo is loaded in the guns."
"ability to sort pos processes, ability to queue anchor/off/online commands."
"\"flogging of the dead horse\" thread, found here. also a new pos gui, alert management, overall new features to the pos interface."
"poses need to be more like small modular stations and less like campsites that cost fuel."
"would be nice to be able to make a queue for anchoring and onlining structures, same with offlining and unanchoring. honestly, having to spend hours checking every 15 minutes to start the next operation is just maddening.and along with fixing the pos ui, can you please get them to fix the corp ui? it's so damn bad, it's just..."
"is it just me that i find it ridiculous a small anchorable audit logged secure cargo container can have an access log of all the changes made to it in something weighing 10 tonnes, yet a full large pos weighing in at 1,000 tonnes cant even manage to log changes to important security aspects of a pos's operation by who and when?i find that absolutely absurd and it needs to change!"
"fix security:allow granular control over who can access what object (and which tab in that object)introduce the tab structure in ship maintenance arrays too, people can jettison/steal each others t3 ships.. that is just stupid.auto hide everything (tabs) a pilot has no access to.more tabs per object !"
"drop anchoring time plsi would not mind the anchor time if it was actually doing something, like some sort of transformers robot unfolding into awesomeness in front of my eyes, but its does fa except show a ****ty timer for what? so it can be destroyed before it gets anchored lame"
"it might be a much shorter list if we were to sound off on what we do like about pos's don't you think? lol"
"this. ressurrect the dead horse."
"one thing i would love to see is bigger fuel bays (not for stront ofc). or a new module that 'connects' to the pos fuel bay that has a bigger bay. 20days worth of fuel in a large pos is very annoying and is just a weird artificial limitation.that said, the reduction in anchoring timers would be nice (not sure about online, that would probably screw with active sieges if they can come online faster then you can kill them). anchoring queue would be awesome too.lets not talk about the ui the flogging the dead horse thread is pretty good."
"oh for the love of god please let us queue anchoring/onlining of modules. content:- taking care of pos's shouldn't become a second job. what i hate the most about pos is setting them up and taking them down. pos artists have my utmost respect.- the security ui is lacking in intuitiveness (esp for new pos owners), clarity and granularity.- as you mentioned, the green box of hate needs to be changed and fuel pellets would help immensely. - weapon platforms should be balanced in their own racial regard."
"just for reference, here is the crowdsourced possible practical pos performance proposal from csm5."
"i am glad i am a simple grunt and do not have to deal with pos again. the problems i see with pos is the same things mentioned above. the que idea to online/offline/unanchor would make things much better as i could i don't know maybe play the game instead of being stuck in a stupid tower. also is there anyway that the process of linking stuff could be made so much simpler. the current way it is makes me want to get a root canal. i have to have them all off line nothing onlining or offlineing then open drop menu 1 drag and drop then submit. hope it takes it and start on the next step and so on and so on and so on depending on how complex an item i am making. it really puts people off of staying in the pos game after they get out of the job for 5 mins.pb"
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images.not looking like this is also a major issue."
"all of this, all of it a thousand times.the entire pos interface needs to be reworked, and for the love of all that's holy, give us the ability to name all the pos structures."
"i think the single worst thing about them is force-field access.the whole concept of typing in a pw to your ship is ******ed. there should be granular standings-based controls.i should also be able to allow roles by standings, particularly gunner role (ridiculous that gunners must be in corp and given specific role)"
"make it alot easier to lock targets when manning the pos guns, the current system sucks big time. make it so when you reset password it does not bounce any friendlies out of the forcefield, but kicking hostiles out."
"couple of things from both empire and null-sec experiences with pos setup / tear down:- role management for pos' is terrible and offers far too coarse of roles. jobs should be able to be queued by the individual not just by the corp. - standings-based pos access rather than password-based pos access. password is really only good for supercap handovers.- public labs would be awesome - queues for pos modules, queues for pos modules, please, please, please :)- easier / more intuitive loading of weapons for pos weapons- better explanation of what the pos settings (aggression / etc.) mean in the game- bigger bays for refining and / or better yields on pos refineries- ability to process one item type at a time for non-ore items or a new item reprocessing module- e-mail or other information mechanism for out of game comms (pos under attack, pos low on fuel, etc.) rather than external tools"
"i like.i also would like to be able for pos managers to assign specific tabs of a module to specific members. such as having 2 corp hangar arrays, you can assign a tab(or even make up your own tab) to a particular member without giving them rights to that tab at all poses."
"this.and this.also, i could understand the need for slowing down onlining a pos back when they were used to establish sov. however, they aren't anymore... so why do we still have all this lengthy timers?"
"nerf teh jump bridge pos module imo"
"i want to pre-plan my pos layout from my corp office in a station and then manufacture an android that will construct my layout/design in space so i don't have to sit there and anchor junk. deploy it in one package, or maybe several that voltron into one pos."
"i want to be able to hack an offline pos to unanchor it. if you cant be bothered to fuel it its mine now."
"+1. also, pos fuel pellets.-liang"
"i personally would like to see standings based access to fitting services and arrays. set it up something like fleet where it's corp/alliance only and then based on standings.maybe also set up a reaction for pos fuel that allows pellets that are 25-50% smaller for the same burn time but the reactions to make them from pi materials also requires moon minerals in the r8/16 range. i don't know it the prices have adjusted yet but after pi was introduced some of the moons became immediately unprofitable (on a small scale at least)."
"my corporation should not automatically own any pos i purchase and bring online. i should not have to have starbase config roles in order to online a pos in npc-controlled systems. if i want to set up a research station for myself in highsec, lowsec, or npc nullsec, i should be able to do so as an individual. i understand the need for allowing a corporation or alliance control what is deployed in their sovreign space. i don't want to change that."
"while this may sound dumb to some people, but id like to see a larger variety of poses available, rather than just large medium small, but more specialized ones (research, moon mining, asteroid belt support?! (probably not), hostile deployment). allowing some to be anchored anywhere in system including safespots would be cool too. it would be nice for the average player to be able to set up and manage a small pos for themselves say in a non-station system without the need for too much logistical strain.edit: this could also add in to the \"farms and fields\" thingo, having smaller poses that can be destroyed relatively easy, but then theres the whole issue of not being able to defend them if you arent awake, reinforcement, blah blah blah. could maybe work something out?"
"new better looking noob ships, please! appearances are like 86.39%first!"
"it would be nice if tools like evemon and eft was available within the game itself. at the moment any skill planning longer than 24h has to be done out of game. you can't fit up a ship and get a list of what skills you need to be able to undock it.the certificates is a step in the right direction but it would be even better if you could click on a certificate and have all the relevant skills added to the list (just like evemon).make aura like the old holographic quafe girl. maybe swap the shuttle and noobship models around, imagine starting this game in a minmatar shuttle with turrets."
"no matter what the npe ends up being, it must represent eve's longterm playability. which unfortunately also means any npe is going to suck and be rather dis-associative to most players.however, a complete ui overhaul with an emphasis on dumping the current window based system would go a long way to helping new (and old) players keep logging in. adjustable and customizable is great, but the default ui could still suck a lot less.the other thing is the newbie ships, they don't need to be great ships related to the rest of eve's ships, but they don't have to be 'shuttles with guns' either. gives them more slots and a second bonus, even if it isnt a combat bonus.defund obamacare...er wrong forum.make the tutorial less about reading or listening to a bored woman reading and more about actually doing stuff. information is great, but cramming it into a single tutorial will turn off most players. let the students chose which courses they study at the time they want to do it."
"i really would not want simulators or anything but what about missions where they had a decent set of skills and the associated ship to do some missions with? so they get an idea of things to come? a few missions with a frigate, then some with a cruiser, then battle cruiser, battleship and dare i say... maybe a capital at the end?get them excited about what else is in the game besides noob ship crap. also don't forget about some missions that has the industrial stuff in it. the missions should gear them to full fill the role the ship should play, not some, \"go here and blow these *******s out of the water.\" all the time. it should be more like, \"go here with this arazu and tackle these guys why our megathrons get on them to destroy their face.\""
"yes, this would be excellent. these tools are indispensable, and they should be emulated and put in the client itself."
"new players are treated in a bad way with uber noob term. large corporations do not want to recruit noobs, as they lack competence and these corps lack time to train them. another stigma associated with new account is the 'spy' suspicion. new players have bad experience when they feel not wanted or not able to play with real guys.in my opinion, new players tutorial missions can be totally surpassed by recruit academy, a player npc run organization, a training centre and a task force, with an aim to provide daily combat experience to the pilots. in these corporation combat is a standard, and courage is the real value. npc give out real mission briefings, while community fcs can lead up to 30 men groups through low sec, wh reconnaissance 0.0 sec border attacks.the difference from faction warfare, that recruit academy focuses on tactical training of direct beginners, people who are in noob corp and have less than 3 month play time. the corporation has ship fittings sets, ship stocks that satisfy the recruit combat programme needs, also recruits get their isk payout for accomplishments in their missions, funded by megacorporations as anti sansha anti jove multi empire initiative. academy training is focused around tech 1 frigate and cruiser combat, wing coordination and facing opposing force.npc ruleset, missions, training plans, player cadets, community volunteer fleet commanders and opposing force. where opposing force may be seasoned players in larger ships engaging in staged environments and micro tournaments."
"new players in my experience leave the game largely due to wardecs. new player hears about game from say ebaumsworld which is where autistics sharks is from. they are out in 0.0. then new person joins the game and they are in say jita. they then undock to go out to the closest highsec system. they die and they quit. happens over and over and over.add in the fact that the wardec system is awful."
"noob ships - they're supposed to be rubbish, but i think they coud get some tweaks.1) the ibis is a caldari ship - give is a missile hardpoint or two (it can still keep railgun bonuses), as a caldari noob i started with guns and trained all the way into a rokh before i realliy realised that caldari missile boats were more appropriate.2) the impairor cap bonus is completely useless since it doesn't have enough power grid to fit lasers that would make it cap unstable. give it a laser damage bonus.the noob missions are great, but there are rough edges that might confuse players:one mission has you salvaging a civilian datacore which ends up doing nothing. there are a whole bunch of useless trinkets awarded through the noob mission system.in one of the minmatar training systems there's an anomaly that spawns 'a demonstration' this is related to the minmatar level 4 epic arc. any noob warping into this will probably die quickly, perhaps the spawning of this anomaly could be fixed so that noobs aren't going to accidently stumble into it when they're running the exploration training missions.i think there needs to be a special mission in the combat training arc which covers the effects of different ammo & drone types, show them how to switch ammo to get different ranges and damage types. i understand this is a bit more complicated but you'd be amazed how many pilots have no clue about the different ammo types.bookmarks should appear on the overview: in particular, mission bookmarks. all that right clicking through multiple menus to get somewhere is very frustating for new pilots."
"one of the big problems with the npe is the vast gulf between new players and pvp vets with 50 million sp. there is currently no way a new player can realistically, either ship wise or financially, engage in pvp. i am busy planning a trial account tournament for sometime in june to provide a level playing field, at least on the isk and sp levels. eve needs something like arenas or battlegrounds that are limited to players in the trial account period, where pvp can be carried out relatively risk free."
"agreed, or perhaps an academy... or even virtual reality simulator... instantly fit, instantly in action, may place bets or watch fights in station"
"new players who wish to mission are not adequately guided to resources to enable them to find missions. ccp should either buy or just ask chribba for permission to link eve-agents.com ingame, or something like it.also, the tutorial missions are boring as hell.edit to add: reasons new players leave.-it's boring-they don't know what to do (new tutorials address this a bit, but only go halfway. better documentation in game, or links to out of game documentation such as eve-wiki, eve-agents and dotlan are needed)-mysterious and unexplained game mechanics, leading to them being greifed or just not being able to figure out why their tutorial mission won't complete. so on the one hand, better documentation available to new players is needed. they shouldn't have to find eve-agents, dotlan, isk-guide, etc on their own. either make the existing player-created documentation available, or put that documentation in-game and accessible. on the other hand, make being a new player less of a grind. so much of a terrible grind. and largely asocial, too. it's just awful."
"i've thought about it 100 times but never said it. that's probably why they implemented a in-game browser, to access important information that you can't find, or won't find easily inside the game.... with the captain's quarter that would be the time to implement a eve dotlan or eve-agents inside the game. also once you do a mission, you could unlock more info on the mission, and that becomes a sort of eve-survival.org..."
"epic arcs...note plurality.many new players need 'direction' early on. once they grasp the sandbox nature, they are good to go. i propose you create career-like epic arcs. while this sounds a bit silly, particularly for something as simple as mining, remember that mining is actually categorized in industry:industry (mining, production, research)combat (pve)pvp / fw (specialty combat)trade (hauling and station trade)exploration (sites, whs, salvaging, archaeology, codebreaking) each of these should have a lvl 1 or 2 (or maybe both!) epic arcs, of a shorter scope than soe, to guide new players along in their chosen career. should they change their mind, as we all know, you can simply start training something else and leave it at that. these arcs *could* provide skill books, though i wouldn't recommend it, but more than likely some better than meta1 equipment. the arc missions would have a clear goal, but not a clear way of accomplishing it.ex industry mission: agent needs 20 of item b. story for why...no blue print provided. the agent would inform the player how to find bp's on the market, maybe even inform them the difference between originals and copies. but it is up to the player to buy the needed materials (or mine them!) and create the item. while simple in structure, the player gains valuable skills and understanding of the career.a sixth 'jack of all trades' career could be introduced in which a single arc has missions that cover the basics of all careers. think of them as a 'final exam' in which a player will complete missions, mine in a basic mining frigate, produce goods, sell them for isk, buy other goods, and get a general understanding of all careers. currently this already exists: but as separated careers. keeps those in place, and have this sixth available. since players no longer freak on 'what to use my bonus sp on', the need to focus in one area a certain way is also gone. win win for ccp - new players get to see more of the game and have a higher chance of 'getting hooked' on a career they like, ccp gets more player time when they spread their sp around on careers they won't be pursuing."
"ahhhh!!! totally support this! :d"
"planetary ui in the new cq build need to not open a window. eve has so many windows. how awesome would it be if there was 0 immersion broken when you set up your planets from inside your cq. you just get to see the pi ui right on the 3d ui screen, and you can spin the planet, and you can zoom in. of course you would get a more detailed full screen view as an option.but this would be the start of something really important to me. real in game 3d ui for walking in stations.as far as in space ui, i would like my targeting reticule to change color with transversal velocity compared to my ships highest tracking speed.while i myself understand radians/sec and how to read my guns and stuff. there is a forgotten feature in eve. the tactical overlay. if a ship is moving too fast to hit, it should be in a read targeting icon. when the ship is within your tracking speed it should be green. then on the tactical overlay you can see if the target is within your optimal range.this would increase combat awareness for new players that might not really understand whats going on."
"a stylishly skinned (even if minimal) ui that looks like the concord videoor something like this:tron uisstyles:glow in the dark,hologramy,futuristic,clean and coolfunctionalities:excellent layouts (hire a graphic designer into the programming team),snappy/instant responses/feedbacks,audio hints for every event e.g. mouseover, clicking different things, dragging etc (black prophecy have done a nice job on this, makes ui navigation much more enjoyable),perhaps even go 3d (e.g. things not in focus go into a slightly further \"depth\", holographics projected onto the planet itself in planet modes... perhaps even holographics in space(think argumented reality))...or am i mistaken ui improvements =/= ui overhaul?"
"neo neocomit got pulled with only a 3page thread with most people wanting it to go vertical. i want to be able to remove things from my neo com. i loved how they could make custom plug in to show skill training, and dev hinted at drone combat app for the neo com. also the tabs docked with the neo com, it was kinda awesome. it wasn't prefect, but it was a huge step forward. there has been no real clear answer. but a 7 page thread is around now with the majority of post is support of what was pulled. if that's not a sign of badly it was needed i don't know what is. it feels like feature abandonment, please get on them about it. even just a clear answer would be nice. and not just \"oh players didn't like it\" a 3 page thread is not the same as a 30 page thread like what happen with moon changes. and they ignored those 30 pages. so why did they pull something that at the very least they could of released as optional testing on tq where most players could try it out. also in game polls maybe to get a better idea what the player base thinks that never visit the forums?"
"semi ui related...to mother ****ing hell with shooting a ship and not being able to decide where on the ship i want the pain to be delivered. right now it is just shoot the ship (specifically does not matter) and watch the grey bars go red. boring!it should matter what on it i'm shooting. excel is not immersive in a spaceship game. interface should be organic and dynamic. the ui should be customizable, changing as i see fit to suit the situation at the moment. i know we have are so rooted in the right-click-drop-down boxes but that has got to go big time."
"i'll quote one of my old proposal, but don't expect me to recreate it on photoshop ! i'll let the ccp people do the work\"buying stuff in big quantities in the lp store is grueling, you click accept, the window refresh and you lose focus on the item you want to buy again. with the filter they implemented you can manage to display only the item you want to buy so you don't have to scroll each time anymore. that's the only thing that this overcomplicated filter achieves; getting rid of the scrolling. the dumb thing about it is that you still have to click 50 times on accept if you want 50 batch of ammo. why the hell can't you make the lp store like a real store ? you add a quantities column, you add 2 more columns: lp total and isk total for each row. big total at the bottom and checkout button. 1 simple click to buy everything you need ! numbers display as red if you can't proceed, displays as green if everything is fine, you need only 2 simple filters: affordable only and show all. you don't need more filters because we will scroll down the list only 1 time to add quantities...i want a lp store that works like a real simple ui store\""
"the one and big issue i have with the ui is its windownyness (for lack of a better made-up word). there are just simply too many windows. in fleet battles i zoom out all the way to improve performance, orbit anchor and focus on the windows that cover 75% of my screen. where are the glorious battles? where is the majesty of space? where is the epicness of ships firing lasers, projectiles and missiles at each other? i know where they are! they are behind all these ****ing windows!in essence that is the major problem with the ui for me. during pvp we need to have a lot of information to perform our best yet all that information is spread out in tons of different windows. the overview, for example, takes up 25% of my (1900x1200) screen on the right just to see the information (distance, ship type, ship speed, pilot name, pilot alliance, tranversal, etc). if i reduce my resolution it takes 40% of screen space. that is simply to get the information of \"who/what is around me\" and \"what are they doing\".the second type of window that takes up another 25% of my space are chat windows. i want to know what is going on in local, so local window is open. i have to have fleet window visible to talk to the rest of the fleet in order to keep coms clear. sometimes we also need to convey messages to alliance or corp chat, or other chat window whether it's for intell or general chatter. it becomes a mess.i then have to keep the fleet window open to see broadcasts (esp. when playing as a logi) because the overview lags too much to effectively update broadcasts. this takes up another 5%+.finally there is the ship hud, target list and drone list. those also take up quite some space.tl:dr there needs to be a way to be able to get all that information without cluttering the spaceship game that is behind these windows. my honest opinion is that ccp work from scratch on a new ui, using a different philosophy when creating the new one. if they keep on working on the same flawed base it'll just end up being the same thing looking differently. \"it is impossible to shove rocks under a house build on sand\". i don't care if it takes a whole year or two for a team to do it. sure, people have gotten used to the current ui, just like some get used to driving crappy rusted cars and living in dumps."
"if you compare internet explorer to mac safari browser you will see how similar things can be different.in ie a lot of space is wasted, commands are hard to access, window positioning and resizing becomes are real pain.in apple browser a lot less space is wasted, giving clear view of the page, the page can be scaled. the command menu can be access much faster. bookmarks, history, tabs and favorites are accessed much faster and easier.in windows explorer a lot of space is eaten by thick borders, headers, status bar, tool bar, it can range from 15% to 70% of visible space depending on your screen size.efficient interface results in more productive work and absence of stress. cluttered windows are number one source of frustration and time waste.number one boost of interface, introduce scalable fonts. menus, context boxes, market, assets, info boxes have far too small letters. your eyes start hurting on 1900 and above resolution. on hd resolutions and above, they become unreadable.there should be 3 types of interfaces, changeble on demand - combat interface - minimum data, only combat feeds, clear view and command and status updates.management interface which is similar to what we have now. should be more structured, you manage trade windows, fittings, station commands. with less back ground interference, less bright stars, nebulae dimmed etc, which improve the visual perception of data.and minimal interface, when you can just do repetitive activities like star traveling, mining and simple object management, example surveying and salvaging."
"less space excel, more sf cartoon-style tactical ui!how? simply adding a vector that depicts the speed of each ship on the tactical overview (which would become a lot more tactical!)a more complete proposal, that takes in account several things such as lag and overview clutter is here: tactical overview option for solo/small gangs: ship velocity vectors"
"one small annoyance, the session change timer for those of us on large resolutions (2560x1600) is incredibly tiny. it would be nice for a larger option available.."
"a complete ui api, to allow players to build their own with whatever modifications or plugins they see fit. a major effort, certainly, but the potential benefit is limitless.also, self-updating market orders. nothing insanely fast - maybe just 1 tick every 5-10 minutes would be ok. trading should revolve around attrition of wallets, not playing time."
"less 'windows in space' and more streamlining."
"or an actual timer, as opposed to a little spinning circle, would be nice. also, visible aggression timers would be cool. as that's, you know, kind of important in some situations."
"this, i love it. though don't get me wrong, i don't want to login to tron spaceships. but i love the market, i love the windows setup, etc. so something along that nature would be great. i also think some of the ui stuff they had in recent eve trailers would be really nice looking. as for specific uis. i think it would be nice to better customize chat windows so you don't get them clumped up and not a spam of blocks. i also think there should be different options to customize how your modules/hp and such look and positioned. i also think stuff should have the option to have stuff appear at the target. such as targets isn't in one static line spot. such as have a little icon, choose specific stuff like show transverse velocity, ew being done, etc being shown from the targeted ship.(pretty sure they had something similar to this in an eve trailer). that way we don't have to stare at the overview and actually look at the screen to play and get rid of the clutter on overview. i think the overview config also needs to be redone and have grouped options like, \"show all/hide all ores\" or \"do not show friendlies\"(that way you don't have to spend hours configuring ui to still show low sec status players and filter out friendlies\". theres been times i seen local was all blue and had my \"mission overview tab\" though i could never figure out how to have low sec status players still appear blue if they are blue to me. so when seeing a blue with low sec status, i would typically be in a hauler and have a heart attack. lol"
"ability to assign hotkeys to drone groups. eg launch group 1, 2, 3, recover, attack. abandon drones. too much clicking menus takes time away from piloting. perhaps also the ability to select, lock and broadcast a target just by looking at/near it and hitting a hotkey.\"lock last broadcast\" key would be invaluable for fleet usage. allow filters for targets vs assistance requests to avoid logistics locking enemies and friendlies locking friendlies."
"i am not a ui wizard, nor an art guy so i can't really comment on what should be the new ui, but i can tell you that ccp's annoying habit of using a green/red interface for everything is really ****ing me off.and yeah im colorblind, and i miss wide screen mode even though it was terrible, because it let me see heat on modules.i would ask that the csm read this article color-blind gamers: common. developer awareness? minimal because it does a far more eloquent job of explaining how the world looks to those of us who are colorblind than i could ever hope to do.this is a huge concern for me as ccp continues to pay lip service to the wanting to improve things for those of us that are colorblind, but they just released autopilot changes that add a bunch of boxes that are various shades of red. which since i am colorblind does me **** all good.i'm not threatening to quit eve or anything, but i would strongly prefer it if ccp would stop color coding their user interfaces."
"this is my ideal. but, if we can't have that, my primary concern with a ui upgrade is space efficiency. eve is a game with a massive, massive ui. massive to the point where i barely care about actually seeing my ship, because if i try to care, i can't play the game. i personally keep a minimum of 14 chat channels open at a time, often as many as 17 or 18. i have four separate stacks of windows in order to make it all fit sensibly, and it takes up over a third of my screen. on top of that i need target locks, the f1-f8 buttons and cap/hp readout, overview, selected items window, system info, ap route, and often watchlist. it's damned cluttered. now, it's cluttered by choice, and frankly, no matter what you do, it'll probably stay cluttered. i want as much information at my fingertips as i can get, and i'm going to keep pushing it until i run out of screen space. but while you can't make my screen less cluttered, you can make it so that i can fit more onto that screen. to pick an obvious example, let me remove portraits from local, so i can see 3x as many blue pluses and red minuses at a time. i can keep it as is, get more info, or get more space, according to my preferences. and remember, for a game with as many disparate play styles as eve, choice is king(which is why a moddable api is so clearly the correct approach). similarly, give me more choices with things like chat windows - for example, if i could make the tab bar at the top double-high and pin one window to the front as default instead of the ui having a mind of its own, i could easily cut down on my chat's ui footprint significantly. also, whatever changes you make, make sure they work. if my pinned windows move every time i log in, you're doing it wrong."
"thanks for the topic, mittens- please kill the 100 km look at limit already- the selected item menu needs to have a user configurable list of orbit, keep at and warp to distances in drop-down menus.- the overview is an abomination. it is complicated to set up and tends to break, is buggy as hell. simplify the overview setup box. the spacing of items in the ui needs to be improved as well as it is currently extremely cluttered.- consider putting everything that goes in the right click menu in a pop-up menu which can be moved around the game window. the amount of right-clicking is terrible.- where, oh where is the new game font that ccp took 40 years to make with broken pencils and torn paper?- a spaceship vector arrow would be far more useful than the myriads of columns in the overview.- consider adding wasd or the arrow keys for ship navigation in space(left right up down). spamming double click is fine, but tedious."
"here's my ideas to change the corp management ui and make it user friendly and simple.1. too much customization is bad, you want a system that can be recognized by all, not the big mess created by a luncatic ceo. so limit the customization as much as possible to create a strong foundation. you can add stuff to it later, as long as you keep in mind to keep it simple and user friendly. also the current system allows you to do too much and that's what's bad about it.2. all roles would be made by ccp and each roles would have its own icons. maybe 5 roles max by object and simple roles definitions : pos admin, hq admin, pos supplier, pos user, station admin... a horizontal slider of the roles like the hair/eyes/clothes slider found in the portrait customization could be used, just make it bigger.3. corp members would belong to categories defined by ccp only to access the right people faster on #4 and #6... (admin, user, supplier, director...). it would work just as #2 & #4 (without #6) in a previous window.4. you'll get a list of the roles and list of the corp members (this one with multiple rows and columns). the members would have a medium sized portrait with their name underneath.the idea here is to drag & drop 1 or several roles on a portrait, or drag multiple portraits on a role. a quick search and filter by name or category of members (see #3) would be available.5. in the same window as #4 you'll also have a list of the pos, station, hq you own (or rent) represented once again by an icon and the name or location underneath. you'll be able to drag & drop 1 or sevaral stations on a portrait or several portraits on the station icon to give only basic user rights.6. each hq, pos, station would have its own info sheet, in which you'll see empty portraits, this sheet will include a listing of your \"important people\" defined by certain categories (combobox of categories act as a filter) and you'll choose them to fill the most important roles of the selected object. also you wouldn't be able to select 10 administrator for 1 pos, put limits for each roles to have a well organized structure.7. each corp member would have a personnal sheet in which you can see his rights and icons on the stations, hq, pos and with links on the systems.as a programmer, i have a clear idea in my head, i just don't have the time to make a clear picture for you. however, i'm sure that with a little bit of imagination you'll figure out the right direction to take."
"launch drones commands - based on groupsi think there is a post somewhere in ah on this already. basically: be able to assign drones to groups (exists) that can then be bound to command keys for launch (does not exist).how it would look in my perfect world that doesn't exist in a perfectly sad way...(in space)1) i highlight my five hobgoblins, right-click, and move them into a new group, which i name \"hobgoblins\".2) i right-click on the group bar \"hobgoblins\", and the menu comes up with options like launch, move, etc...there is also an option \"assign\".3) hovering over \"assign\", i am allowed to select group 1 thru 20 (keeping carriers in mind). i assign \"hobgoblins\" to 'group 1'.4) while fighting, i use ctl+1 to launch drone group 1, which is \"hobgoblins\", which is 5 hobgoblins that i put there. if i wanted to launch group 20, it could be ctl+alt+0. the commands were assigned in the keyboard interface menu prior to combat, much like many other ui features.for those who like different setups or commands, since eve already allows personal mapping, the keyboard options would simply have \"launch drone group 1\" \"launch drone group 2\" etc, and you assign whatever combination of keys you like. i don't know if eve already does this, but deviate between right and left ctl, alt, and shift, as well as number pad keys from top-keyboard numberals: people could then use the number pad for various commands, drones or otherwise. again, i don't know if eve already does this."
"yes please."
"i support drone implants. i am primarily a drone boat and whish this would be addressed as well."
"yes we can ! ( hit the 2 year of begging ccp to do something)"
"\"for you, children, on your fifth birthday. may your next five years be as full of promise and hope, and may you one day walk with us as equals among the stars.\"idmei sver, society of conscious thought, on the fifth anniversary of the capsuleer era.-> apotheosis descriptionstop to thionk for a few seconds."
"i like the ferox, but yeah, it could definately use a bit of a stat boost to really shine next to other bcs."
"for the record, i suspect that ccp is thinking about tiering issues, as i made a general comment about imbalance within the frigate range in one of the round tables at fanfest and chronotis asked (unprompted) whether i was talking about tiers.still, can't hurt to keep talking about it."
"indeed, thanks for that tidbit."
"i totally agree! i've been playing for about a year and have sunk a lot of effort in hybrids and gallente. only to discover through pain and the usual vertical curve of eve that for some reason i'm always unable to compete with other races ships. its very depressing. i now have to start over and work on minnies to have any real chance."
"excellent idea. :)"
"that's not what i meant. there's no recycling involved with one char staying at low sec status and doing the crimes while his carebear alt grinds all the needed isk in safer havens. there's no recycling or sec status repair needed at all since one just stays at low sec status while the other is completely unaffected. so how's this gonna get fixed?"
"well that would is the way of the outlaws. this change is more for the gankbears that want to randomly suicide haulers/mission runners in highsec. they will have their easy out of jail card slightly nerfed."
"fully support"
"translation: suicide ganking nerf, not criminal nerf, from -10s with high sec alts who just want to nerf other pirates because the -10s have to feel 100% safe. funny how u mentioned how \"easy\" it is for them, yet your case is no different. u just used different words so that carebears and risk-averse pirates alike can support it without looking like the real gankbears u talk so much about, which leads to:that pretty much summed it up right there--combine that with your \"that is the way of the outlaws\" and it's u and every supporter who r the \"gankbears\", especially when u want to keep your high sec alts safe just because u're too scared to be a target in the same space u use to farm easy killmails. remember this:u chose your lifestyle, now pay the consequences for it. and if u still don't like it, rat all the sec status back up, preferably in that low sec u love so much, since doing that is so easy to u."
"lol. interesting that newer players usually go to 0.0 first. when we raid nullsec with maybe 10 ships (usually without logistics - i mean, 2 logistics for 6 ships, srsly? you beg that hard for ecm?) they usually don't fight unless their size is 50+i support the original idea because, well, in nullsec you don't lose sec, so you shouldn't gain any either."
"fix the gcc flagging for repping innocent outlaws in lowsec."
"the first thing i can think of as far as things that annoy, hybrid rebalance, dread rebalance, a pos gui (similar to pi) speaking of poss \"the flogging of a dead horse\" thread should be looked at.great job with the fireside chat fellas. [insert brown nosing and **** jokes here]"
"tiericide.low sec disparity being so far off in risk vs reward compared to high sec, null sec, and w-space."
"more client to server and server to client request combing to remove unnecessary and redundant requests, and to streamline the ones that are made. im sure thats what veritas is doing atm and he should be allowed to keep at it!"
"change \"date of birth\" to \"pilot certification\" and fix the sebiestor and intaki."
"please? oh please, fix the ghost ore issue?"
"it's good to see you all getting some perspective and focus for things to come. csm appears to be maturing.fixes..globular graphical glitches resulting from light refraction on pos structures and gates. ..and ships coming apart at the seams, like so many catalyst's i've seen in the past year. it's very distracting, and takes a great deal away from the game and enjoyment of it.yes, at some point i'd also like to see higher resolution textures on the models, and it wouldn't hurt to scale them a little better.pos refresh. this is an old topic much discussed. pos' drive me, and just about anyone else with experience, up the wall. would be really nice if they saw some massive changes, including 3d ui's and modular construction as i've mentioned before in other incarnations.ship redesign. not just ships, but guns, fittings and generally anything to do with flying. this needs time and consideration, and generally a bit of attention in a good way. ships and modules should not be designed for npc's to use.aggression mechanics and war declaration makeover. the whole aggression mechanics system needs to be, at least briefly, disassembled and looked at for flaws in the system that allow players to exploit the system to their advantage. yes, i'm talking about pirates. everything can be exploited in some fashion of course, however this one is weighed heavily in favor of the side it's supposed to be protecting against, kinda like the canadian legal system. wardec's need to be looked at to, and have some basic flaws addressed.faction warfare. please make them stop crying.quirky little login issue. here's how it works, as i'm sure many already know: login with account name and password, basic gui and station view pop up, you can see your ship and the stion interface, your name, etc.. the chat window pop's up blankly, you click on you character to open the character sheet or mail, it appears blankly, little spinning dial on whatever window is open, poof you're on desktop, eve is gone. familiar?what year is it? 110 cy? 111? no idea. can we get this added to calender?heyyy.. i got an idea. calculator + market. why not have the ability to input prices on market directly to calc, possibly even something more functional with tax/fee calculation for amounts purchased, if sold to buy order, etc... yes, i'm a little lazy when it comes to that. seperate from the normal calculator of course, this one would have to be directly interfaced with the market window. anyway, idea, work with it.i'm grasping at straws here. can't think of anything else, it's late, i'm almost tired, have to work tomorrow, goodnight."
"in a new convo window, all the font sizes and box at the bottom of the chat window has the hight all reset to default. it should open with the exact same font and chat box as the last window i changed the setting to."
"ui: fix the windows from changing focus when there is a session change.actually, the ui windows should not be affected by session changes at all; it's a ui, on your pc, it's not in space. while undocking you should still be able to read and chat, for example. fricking separate the ui from the content already, ui101 srsly."
"tldr: switch the implant slot for implant series zms and zma.reason: zms (slot 9) works both for light missiles and rockets. zma (slot 8) only works for guided missiles.but the damage implants for rockets and light missiles are in slot 9. so a light missile user can use both the damage implant and the zma; while the rocket user can only use either the damage implant zms or the damage implant alone.switching slots for zms and zma would let standard missile users have approximately the same benefit by switching implant in slot 8, and keeping the damage implant in slot 9. this would allow rocket users too enjoy both the damage implant and the explosion velocity implant. at the moment rocket users don't have anything to put in slot 8, which seems an oversight."
"remove or decrease the 30 second timer for changing ships and docking and undocking."
"edit: great, wrong topic. sorry."
"when there are a 1000 things to do often the fastest way to get them done is simply get them done one by one. just let the devs pick one they want to fix and fix it.if you have to prioritize then start by the smallest/quickest fix and work your way up.identifying is easy. get the 1000's of players to post like in akita t's thread. sorting them out will take time though. i suggest positing what is already on your list (without dedicating yourself to them) and then make a post in general, ships & modules, s&i and md channels for players to post what they find. tl:dr help us help you find stuff."
"sticky the 1000 paper cuts thread and sticky all these summit threads so they do not get off the front page."
"old cyno effect, you can't even tell when caps appear these days.so many things to click during invention / manufacturing. can't you have a \"repeat last\" or something.when you warp to something at 0, but can't jump/dock since you landed >2500.people who get around the docking aggression timer by docking in carriers."
"undock -> abort often requires two key-presses to actually abort as client gets 'confused'.also annoying station interior update after abort, behaves as if entering station and reloads the whole thing.add scrambling frigs to all fw missions. should help with the skittish lone bombers look at docking envelopes on stations, some have 40-50km range while others require you to scratch the paint off the superstructure.batch purchase from saved fittings. oxymoron much? but yeah, there are a ton of standings based issues that could/should be resolved in regards to assists."
"engine trails, would be even happy with the old ones simply added back into the game again.if ccp wants to go fancy, something like this would look quite good:linkage"
"i would really love to be able to see myself cyno-jump into a system, instead of just out of it.my first time around with carrier / black ops, i was excited when i popped out, but immensely dismayed i never saw myself pop in.if and when the new cyno effects come, hopefully with an in/out difference, i'd love to see myself do both parts instead of only just the out. it'd make jumping a lot more seamless and entertaining, i think."
"manufacture input required 'hoops' should be reduced, with bookmark style production options for things often done. and for a specific nag, allow ore compression directly from the ore bay in the rorqual, instead of having to move it first to cargo."
"the ability to set defaults in the science and industry ui. when say manufacturing a bpo/c it automatically selects the first available assembly line at the location (station or assembly array) it is and automatically selects max runs. same for the rest of the options you can do on a bpo/c. so the sequence is shortened if you have all the materials there, you right click, select the action you want to do, hit done, get the quote and hit build. having this is in would remove a massive amount of tedium and rsi that large production lines have. i think what would be useful to know once the issues have been identified, collated and the final list decided and given to ccp to look at; is why something isn't done. so if an issue pops up time and time again then but ccp doesn't act on it it would be good to get feedback as to why they aren't doing it. whether its just that that particular thing would require a reworking of lots of code (that isn't immediately clear to the average player), its being looked at along with a bunch of other things and will be changed/reworked when that project goes forward or quite simply ccp doesn't see it as an issue or its meant to be like that."
"i don't have any great ideas on how to do this better(aside from possibly doing a search on the noob help forums for the word \"******ed\"), but i will definitely lend my thumb to the project."
"team bff has probably been the single most significant factor in keeping me playing. i'm reasonably content with the current process of identifying \"little things\", and i'm extremely happy with the things they've fixed. i can't believe that we're anywhere near seeing the backlog of relatively minor fix requests cleared so... the only real change i want to see is more of the same. increase the resources available, and therefore the rate of fixes, and the issue of prioritisation becomes proportionately less pressingincrease the size of team bff and build on the success of one of the few unarguably successful projects (team gridlock is the other) that ccp have started since apocrypha launched 2 years ago. the work done by bff benefits every single eve player, from the day-1 noob to the 7-year veteran."
"drones apparently hate large collidable objects with the intensity of a thousand suns.after 4 years of subscriptions, i'd be pleased as punch if the next time i ran a \"station\" sanctum, i wasn't forced into a click-fight with my drones in order to get them to attack my target. honestly.. if this was someone's idea of a mini-game...what i'd prefer is an \"only attack my target\" setting that works exactly the way it sounds. if i'm not targeting anything, they don't attack (with this checked) until i do, if they are set to \"aggressive\"."
"nerf jump/titan bridges"
"if i read you right, it's called the passive setting."
"in faction war, remote repairing someone of -5 security status or less results in loss of faction standing. this mechanic serves no useful purpose, and does have a large drawback in that sufficient loss of faction standing can result in a corp being automatically kicked from the militia. previous communication by ccp has led to the perception that this is a bug, however it (like everything else in faction warfare) has gone unfixed for years.decouple faction standing losses from remote repping criminals."
"thanks for the topic, treb.- session timers possibly need a rethink. with the coming incarna, it is possibly going to take even longer to dock, reship and undock than it already does. also, do session timers need to be long for fleet position changes or joining fleets?- why does one have to go back to the log in screen when changing characters?- why do all the races except amarr have the 10 second reload time? 5 seconds or none please."
"i'm still clicking if i don't have aggro."
"we're looking for feedback in relation to the recent changes to the anomaly system and how it relates to the spawning of profitable combat sites in sovereign nullsec space. given that when this idea was initially proposed, the feedback was considerably weighed in the negative, i want to hear your personal experience with this system and if you feel it has impacted on your gameplay. if the change to the nature of the way anomalies work in 0.0 has altered your income, what steps have you taken to seek alternative cash flow, and are you satisfied with it? we're generally interested in how this has changed the way you play eve, if at all.maintaining serious discourse concerning this discussion i.e. not complaining about whether or not you think nullsec anom runners deserved a nerf or not, etc. is not what we're looking for. in the same regard, we're also not looking for an nonconstructive plethora of moaning about how generally 'bad' this change is. offering satisfactory counter suggestions for improvements/alterations to this system are encouraged."
"just to reiterate.. we know its a bad change and we have similar concerns.. we are really looking for constructive feedback please. if you want to rant and rage use the other thread :)"
"constructive feedback: \"since the anom nerf, i and four of my corpmates have moved our moneymaking alts to hisec, where we run l4 missions. there's no risk there, and we're making x isk/hour (provide figures). while we remained in our space (give territory and trusec) in nullsec, we could only make x isk/hour post-nerf, where previously we made x isk/hour.\" that's good feedback: it shows movement of behavior and is based on numbers. bad feedback: rarrr ccp rarrr i unsubbed rarrrrr you are awfulthis tells us nothing, and is useless. we already know from the 109+ page thread that folks are furious. we want post-nerf anecdotes and data."
"i understand the need for it, so i wont go into a whine fest about nerfed income. what i would like to see is less frigates and cruisers in the higher sites (hubs). havens and sanctums were quite fine. or perhaps some new sites with bs sized ships only. the problem i have now is, i used to rat in a carrier which was fun and exciting cous it has a massive risk. but now with all these sub bs ships it feels pointless and lame to rat.i would really like to see some more equal sites. i understand the anoms need some form of warp scram and webs so a few frigs or tackle cruiser npc's is fine, but too much is just horrible to play against. make them more exciting. would at least help against the boredom of having to farm 50% more then we used to for the same reward. hell it's more effort now due to all the smaller ships to kill.just my take on it, as i doubt we'll see havens and sanctums back in most systems."
"for example! i now mow through stargate havens in my tengu. it goes through very quick and nets me a very respectable 22m isk after corp taxes for roughly 30ish minutes work. and seeing as havens seem relatively abundant, i have adapted to the situation. if others can do the same, more power to them, if not, then explain why."
"i'm at least 35 days away from a tengu. cruiser v :( we get one haven now in our space and that's always on 'cooldown' so to speak."
"station' sanctums were designed to be more profitable, but ultimately more time consuming than 'ring' sanctums which had less 'trashy' spawns which were quicker to run, but offered less profit. the same can be said of 'chemical factory' havens and 'stargate' havens. i assume the makeup ripples down to the lower echelons too, but i could be wrong.indeed, unfortunately we can't all be flying tengus forever. and depending on the sec status of your home region, you may not even have havens, which is unfortunate. how do you feel you will adapt to this in the long run?"
"i have the luxury of having a highsec alt and invention pos so my income is secure. but i do feel for those who don't. global prices will take ages to balance out towards the lowered income of the people that rat. so for most people everything is just more expensive now. to the point where losing ships and keeping accounts open is endangered. the bridge between botting alliances (yes i will put this like this) and the ones that don't do it as much just got massively bigger.if they had done this from the start, there would be no issues. but giving candy and then taking it away is bad game design. it just made it feel worse for everyone. i guess what i'm saying is, it stopped being fun now that we have to spend 50%+ more time to gather isk to keep up with fights. and i doubt anyone wants even less fights to begin with. being forced to use cheaper ships now just means everything people skilled for is a waste. why fly t2 ships now if you have a much harder time now to recuperating the cost of losing it."
"errrm, so i guess any feedback will only be considered constructive if it reinforces your view? as much i appreciate the initial post and what it's trying to do, i fear this will become another mud-slinging thread."
"if you think the changes are great and are prepared to give numbers to those thoughts then your input is also welcome."
"read: ccp screwed us out of a wad of rant cash, and now we actually have to fight for our space..."
"i told you not to do this. if you can't keep this civil then you might want to take a short vacation from the forums, or possibly take a mandatory vacation. keep these sorts of posts to an absolute minimum. this is not the place for it."
"left null behind ages ago when blobs/lag reached critical levels so only experience is based on 'visits'.as i understand it the exploration content can more than cover any losses incurred from anomaly change, albeit not as easy nor is it solo work for the most part.only problem i have heard (and experienced) is competition over the spawns:so double (or triple) spawn rate of all null exploration.ties nicely into the whole \"outback/great unknown\" that null is supposed to be and could even be used to provide materials that would otherwise have to bridged in from jita (reg: mitts industrialization thread)."
"nc & friends now has to fight for their moons since drf got screwed and has a reason to finally kill them off."
"for some reason, it's taking sanctums forever to despawn. scanned down 6 sanctums in 1 system and 5 had already been completed and some had been completed almost an hour ago. really annoying"
"hello, as a previous resident of fountain i would be more than happy to give feedback on these anom changes ccp has put forth.nullsec to me had always been a \"playground for the big dogs\" and a place where newbies could go and learn to play with said big dogs. the risk is great but the rewards also incredible.before the anomaly nerf an alliance such as test had plenty of places to run these anoms as long as we were willing to put forth the isk for the ihubs/pirate arrays and the time grinding systems to military index 5. now why i point out test in particular is no reason other than i know how many members they have, and i know how many of them ran anoms pre patch.with the nerf to anoms our 4000 ratters (generous figure?) has went from being able to run anywhere in fountain, to being secluded to a significantly lesser number of systems. this in turn has caused the anom systems to become overcrowded with lines of pilots waiting to run these anoms. as per figures, before the changes to anoms were put into play i was able to pull upwards of 80 million isk/hr consistently. post patch my income has sunk through the floor in comparison to a steady 100mill/hr. with waiting times increased i personally had dropped to a subtle 20mill/hr.now even being at 100 mill an hour wasn't spectacular but with not having to wait x time to get into an anom it was reasonable without a doubt.but having put these changes into effect i personally see no reason why anyone would waste thier time running these when they can churn out level 4s indefinatly in empire, print faction ammo with lp and make more isk hand over fist for little to no risk when comparing to running anoms in null. (i'm currently turning out 250million/hr doing level 4s in empire.)why for such a massive hit to the wallet would we endorse these changes at all?living in nullsec at a much greater risk than empire should yield higher rewards, not lesser. i should not have to pull my \"money maker\" out of my nullsec alliance so i can go make money in empire. this anom change has promoted nothing but anger from all corners new eden."
"as a previous member of fatal ascension, we were in a system that was just upgraded to combat 5 sites like 1-2 weeks before the announcement. that is my first example of why it was a bad choice. i forgot who exactly bought it, but the thing costs 250mil and got very little in return during that time. since it essentially said, \"well you just spent the money on this upgrade and the time and effort getting a freighter in here to install it, but it doesn't matter because no matter what, you won't be getting sanctums or havens anymore\". then running the other mediocre sites wasn't even worth the risk vs isk. i can mine while looking at my screen every 10mins or so in high sec or do l4s in high sec with very very risk and make the same amount of even more. and being a college student, i don't have 8hrs+ to make isk doing mediocre stuff just to buy a decent pvp ship that will be easily lost. one might say, don't lose the ship then. well then don't pvp, don't pvp, then stay in high sec. simple chain of process. everyone loves money, real or virtual, people want to go where the money is. that's why back when the usa was founded, people moved to america. that's why people go to college, because they want more money than what a high school kid makes flipping burgers. same concept applies to null sec. if there is more money to be made out in null, then people will take the risk and go for it. then they can afford to buy a battleship or faction ship(cause quite frankly, i'm tired of seeing the spam of drakes and canes). last i checked from reading the quaterly report, only 11% of the eve population lives in null. that isn't much at all. instead of shrinking that existing size for people to fight over, increase the overall worth of null sec and get more people out there. imagine if the null population grew double the size to 22%, that would be a lot of people. and with more people comes more chances of conflicts and more people to shoot at. if there are more people, they are going to want to fight over the other valuable stuff like moons. as for the misconception stuff like carebears and blue standings. people are not going to go to null sec just to make lots of isk and never spend it. they want to make some good isk in a relatively fair amount of time, buy a nice ship and kill ****. if they don't want to kill ****, they become a good target for those that do. so theres really shouldnt be anything bad about that. for blue standings, yes. thats always going to be there and thats how its going to work, regardless of what ccp wants. lets pretend an alliance of 200 people, no super caps wants to join null. they don't wanna pay someone 1billion a month to rent when they don't get the protection that is promised. they want to start and grow, they can't just waltz into some place like cloud ring and take a system or two. they'll get curbed stomped out the next day(or within a few hours). being blue with people will always be there because that's the only way to survive out there. does it decrease combat activity? hell no, last i've checked dotlan for the past month, the nc has been busy with ev0ke, ncdot, drf and pl. so yeah... thats kinda the jist of my feedback. hope it helps."
"to answer the question - yes it's impacted my gameplay. previously i was able to pull ~60m / hour if i focused with a tengu and had the ability to chain sanctums/havens (as rings would finish in < 20 minutes), not counting escalations given the decrease in available anoms, the competition among blues has simply forced me to pull a ratter from null and run high-sec missions still making respectable isk (with far less risk) if i want to make isk that way. i've also diversified my revenue stream into trading/producing which actually reduces my risk overall (less vulnerable ships in space) and isn't really tied to a particular location, meaning i don't really care where 'home' is *too* much.if anything, the change has made me far less interested in the space we hold in terms of income and far less reliant on nullsec for income in general. i spend far less time in anything other than a fleet/solo gank combat ship in space in null."
"pre-nerf: living in deklein, doing ring and station sanctums in my nidhoggur with ~24mil bounty ticks + the chance of escalations, everyone was happy with the way it was.post-nerf: living in fountain, sold my carrier because all sanctums are either occupied or there's reds camping the system with probers and a nearby gang. i switched to belt-ratting in my tengu and can live of it, but only because fountain's truesec regarding belt-spawns is broken (? caused by npc space withing the region?). the more players move into my ratting grounds, the less profitable it gets, averaging on 6-7mil isk per tick when i start out, ending up with 16-ish ticks once i chained spawns. no chance of escalation to a plex.all this definately breaks the risk/reward ratio. i know of a couple of guys who moved into alt corps so they can run level 4 missions in highsec with 0 risk and ~250mil isk per hour. source: corpmates and this thread.solution: bring back the old anom system and nerf the lp payout highsec level 4 missions provide."
"well to make up for this maybe chnage the industry upgrade so it will boost the moon minerals. reach industry 5 and at least one moon in the system will become technetium."
"i undocked my ship from 0.0 took 3 days to get all the sand out of my engines. the new desert you gave us is pushing people to where the food is. empire!our small alliance started to die when you posted the dev log, 99 pages + of this is a bad idea, and it didnt click, then again, were stupid and need to be lead around by the noise. feels like wow now, good job!"
"as a director for a large nullsec corp, this nerf saddens me deeply.pre-nerf, we spent around 1.5 billion on upgrading one system which enabled our pilots a couple of weeks in which to make some decent money and not really worry about where the funds for there next fleet ship to come from. we averaged around 250-300 million a week in corp taxes through anoms.post nerf, we are now facing a crisis as all of our older players have moved out their ratting characters to npc corps to run level 4 missions in empire with little or no interruptions. taxes have dwindled to 150 million isk a week, the loss of our older players not being active in the area running home defence fleets, or being around in corp to help with questions.now comes the big problem with this nerf, our corp recruits out of the eve online memberbase, we source all of our pilots from somewhere else and we always have around 20-30 new pilots join per week. they are told to run tutorials and they recieve assistance from our corp in the form of skillpacks, ships and advice from our older players. with decreased tax revenue, we are struggling to find these programs, which will discourage people from entering the game.sitting in empire, grinding missions and not being an active member of a community isn't what our corp thrives on, and through those times where we are in empire everybody leaves. we thrive on the big fleet fights, we thrive on helping nurture our new pilots to become the blood thirsty menace and scourge of new eden which everybody either loves or hates. this stifles not only our growth being in test alliance please ignore, but others like us who embrace new players into our lawless space. without this revenue it not only endangers our corp, but also endangers the growth of eve itself, as its hi-light (the lawless, player run, sandbox environment which is nullsec) has no rewards for all the of risk, time and effort now required to live out here.it doesn't break up large power blocks, it doesn't \"dictate military staging systems\" as per ccp wolfjumper mcshortsightedson suggests, but stagnates the game, and discourages players from playing."
"that thread is not about high sec. it's also not widely accepted, even by the more elite mission runners. try reading it again.-lianged: also, the lp store is a isk sink. you don't want to nerf those."
"personally i don't run anoms at all(industry ftw), but a significant portion of my alliance does as their primary income source. they've been dropping from nullsec like flies - i've had entire corps pack in their towers and move back to empire for l4s. we're in about the worst position it's possible to be, with both our sov systems being -0.03, but this change has hit us incredibly hard. we could handle a nerf, but the complete elimination of good sites, combined with the recent buff to gurista jamming, has basically eliminated my alliance's ability to make money from nullsec as things stand now."
"when the devblog came out about the anomaly changes i was certainly not running around screaming \"the world is ending\"; in fact, i thought the changes wouldn't change life at all for those of us in fountain, seeing as we have many systems with \"decent\" truesec. i also have to admit i was highly curious to see how this change would affect the placement of alliances and their associated power blocs, and it really is quite fascinating to see the abandonment of certain regions of the game in favor of \"better\" space. the drf's push into the eastern regions of nc territory, that being geminate and vale, is really good fun to watch.when the reality of what wasn't explained in the devblog hit, i was more than a bit disappointed. the dev blog about the changes, as i interpreted them, basically said \"if you have -0.5 to -0.59 truesec, you'll have one sanctum, if you have -0.6 to -0.69, you have two, -0.7 to -0.79 three, etc. (assuming you have pirate detection array 5)\" what the change appears to be is that in these systems below -0.5 with a pirate detection array 5, you get one constant sanctum in the system, with a bunch of havens. from what has been tossed around, in order to get more sanctums to spawn past the constant one sanctum, you have to finish the haven anomalies that are already there. from my experiences in the past week running havens and lone sanctums in a -0.7 system, i haven't ever seen more than the one sanctum at the same time.as far as numbers go, alternating between havens and sanctums i seem to get a consistent 37 million isk per hour in my blaster proteus, and my fellow corpmate csm white tree is making almost the same on his tengu pilot. my friend, captain ichimaru, who also posted in this thread, is making nearly five to six times this amount over time running l4s in highsec.as a result of this change, i am currently training a mission running tengu pilot alt from scratch and will be actively using that character in 3.5 months time, because it seems at least for the line members of a major alliance, the best way to make isk at this point is to run l4 missions in the safety of highsec, with little to no threats.as far as risk vs reward, at least for line members, there is very high risk in null with little reward, and very low risk in highsec with great reward. there is a problem with this, as it has been stated by the developer that a part of the game's design is that nullsec should be rewarding players for taking the greater risk of being in a null-security environment.just to tl;dr my problems are:1. the dev blog that ccp greyscale published contained unrealistic expectations of changes that would occur in the game.2. i can make far more money running l4s in highsec than i can running anomalies in null, this mentality is not in conjunction with the intended risk-vs-reward model the game is supposed to have."
"pre-nerf anomolies were a ridiculous way of making huge quanties of isk, anywhere in 0.0, with minimal risk, that completely removed any point in doing anything other than sanctums for isk due to the vastly greater isk/hr and low effort required.the nerf was a good idea. just look at the economic data showing rampant inflation since they came in.they need to take it one step further and make true-sec dynamic based on (inverse) player activity.oh and nerf l4s urgentlyjust to make sure the csm understand this point: its -not- a bad thing for there to be less people running anomolies post nerf, nor is it bad if their income is lower. both of these are good things because the situation before was absolutely ridiculous. people talking about 200 - 300m an hour running l4s are lying, simple as, or they are using multiple accounts and comparing to the isk/hr of a single account running annoms."
"i'm sorry, i didn't notice anyone claiming to make 225m isk/hr doing high sec l4s. can you please direct me to proof of this because i'm very very keenly interested in his methods.-lianged: i found it. and he's doing it with faction ammo no less!"
"three things:- that thread is about low sec missions.- that thread hasn't been particularly well received, and there's much \"discussion\" over whether he's including all the time sinks.- you have to be making 120k lp/hr and selling 250k units of faction ammo per hour in order to pull off what was claimed.-lianged: i don't really care if you guys are gonna ***** about the change, or even claim that high sec makes more than **** 0.0. but lets do try to keep it within the realm of the reasonable. ;-)"
"three things ; - following that thread in empire i am pulling the same weight off of faction ammo.- the people receiving that thread poorly are people that a) don't have the skills required to do this properly, b) people running missions for bounty ticks.- 120k lp an hour? easily done. 250k faction ammo in an hour? my highest rate has been 350k inside of 45 minutes.claiming heresy is all good and everything but multiple people are actually seeing these numbers. people bailing out of nullsec en mass is not \"coincidental\" it's as simple as a ball was dropped and the issue needs to be addressed, and resolved."
"i used to run anoms with my thanatos(fighters 5, carrier 5) and i even had jdc5 finish recently.used to do anomalies in:"
"in all honesty, i don't care in the slightest. there are lots of other ways to make money in null blowing up rats, and anoms are probably the least enjoyable one. i can still find a sanctum when i need to, and i can jew in other better and more entertaining ways.so personally, i give no ****s."
"let me be perfectly clear that i think anomalies are a god-awful boring pve mechanic. the greatest danger to me in an anomaly is that my intel channel is bad/behind and in the 30 seconds it takes me to kill a random spawn of scramming frigates, an entire gang of reds piles into the system, finds me and kills me. in other words, not dangerous at all. they're also not interesting, because the faction spawn and escalation mechanics are completely random and fairly rare. they might not be rare when you can see the big picture (for all i know it's a 1/10 or 1/5 chance), but as a pilot, i have gotten 1 escalation ever from an anomaly and a negligible number of faction spawns.all anomalies are good for, then, are fueling the war machine. pilots need isk to buy ships to get their ships blown up in fights. they're not serving in and of themselves a major source of entertainment. people are upset because their means to an end have been removed, which causes them to be less inclined to participate in the risk aspects of eve. that might be too meta for this thread, but whatever.for me personally, once the change was announced, i decided to train up my exploration and profession skills (scanning, hacking, archaeology and salvage). i now spend my nights flying around looking for random crap to run instead of pushing butan on my built in scanner and lazying through anomalies. i'll still run one occasionally, but it's no longer my primary source of income.overall i feel like exploration content has been a net gain for me. it's certainly much more random and dependent on what drops i get, but when you find a nanite control skillbook or a nice faction mod or deadspace drop, it makes up for a lot of bad sites.which brings me to my suggestion: i recognize that inflation is a major source of concern in the eve economy and the rampant isk faucets like anomalies are a major reason why it is a concern. regardless of any of the reasons listed in greyscale's devblog, i would wager that the anomaly change was made almost exclusively because of inflation concerns and other justifications were created later because inflation is a really boring reason to make a change like this one.along those lines, i think it would make sense to buff faction, deadspace and officer spawns and drops (by \"buff\" i mean their frequency, not their power), along with associated cosmic signatures in which to find these sorts of things. players love finding mods because they're shiny and exciting (much more exciting for my purposes than a wallet tick) and they're better for the economy for two reasons. first, they have to be purchased with existing isk instead of magically created faucet isk like bounties. second, unlike isk, they can be destroyed (either in transit or in combat), and destruction (or conflict), as we're often told, is what fuels this game.so, long story short: anomaly nerf changed my gameplay, though arguably for the better, but a good way to maintain the fight against inflation but keep players happy would be to make fewer bounties and more \"special\" mod drops. this puts a damper on isk inflation while making players feel like they're getting something in return, instead of where we are now, where entire regions of space are worthless and lame."
"the basic idea was sound, but i believe that the lowest-sec 0.0 systems were somewhat over-nerfed - even the worst -0.01 system should be upgradeable to at least 1 haven.the real issue is that anoms are almost pure isk generators. since they're essentially the sov equivalent of l4 missions, they need an isk sink analogous to the lp store."
"no, even using the techniques he used you will not achieve anywhere near that in high sec. you're basically claiming you're completing the equivalent of cargo delivery more than once per minute (or 12-15 angel extras per hour). and then you're claiming way outside what i reasonably expect for competitively priced ammo - you know, the ammo prices at which it becomes even possible to make that kind of isk/hr (well that or you're making 350-500k lp/hr --- and converting it)basicaly: him making 250m/hr relied on making 50% more lp than is possible in high sec and converting it at pretty outrageous rates that nobody really buys.imo: proof or stfu.-lianged: i want to be clear that i have no doubt whatsoever that some people are going to move to high sec for what they perceive to be better (and safer) isk. but really now, ****ting the numbers up with bull**** is not constructive to the purposes of the thread."
"you almost had good counter points until you started getting angry, ask ccp to apologize to you for the current state of things. don't take your frustrations out on those of us smart enough to take advantage of the situation.the spreadsheets and various other confirmations of said income automatically discredits your argument, this is a thread where csm and ccp both wanted factual evidence of economical changes from a personal standpoint of the pilots due to the anomaly nerfs.people have provided said factual evidence through spreadsheets. varying testimonies from different alliances.now please stop derailing the thread and provide some feedback as per the topic discussion."
"if people weren't pubbies they would understand that highsec players can't make any money. people are just fabricating spreadsheets trying to get pubbies to believe this and counter the anom nerf. ccp apparently wants us to fight and maybe try and break up the powerblocks death to the nc so maybe eve will become interesting again if the ncsm doesn't try and stop it to only fuel their own interests."
"no, you linked to a highly contested spreadsheet about low sec mission blitzing with multiple agents and massive decline rates and claimed you are getting identical results in high sec - where the lp rewards are notably much less. basically, the isk/lp on faction ammo isn't high enough to make the kind of isk you are talking about.as you said - they're asking for factual evidence... so provide please provide some proof of sustained 250m isk/hr in high sec by converting with faction ammo.-liang"
"you're not representing the player base at-large here. we deserve better than that.here's a positive story on the change:burn eden recently setup camp in our space. we know how they gank and we've adjusted our behavior accordingly while they are there. not seeing much in the way of ignorant pilots blundering into them, they enticed us to fight by reinforcing an outpost in one of our best ratting systems. they know this too, as they posted a screenshot of themselves running a sanctum in the system to caod. ( linkage )before this change, when any system could produce the same level of ratting, everyone would have simply shrugged, moved to an adjacent system, and went on with their lives. not so here, as this system now has more strategic importance to our alliance than most of the others. this change has helped them (and all other smaller pvp alliances) be more effective at combating a larger alliance as a small group than they would otherwise be. it also made today's fight feel more important than it otherwise would have."
"i'm actively involved in test's new player programs. we get many new players who join and move to 0.0 with very few skillpoints. we instruct them to train into salvaging and destroyers and go around to anomalies to salvage for money while they train into battlecruisers. before this change there was already a shortage in available wrecks to be had, but this has made it much worse. not only are there less people running anoms and more competition for them it also is forcing new players to go farther and into more crowded systems in order to compete with each other to find wrecks.i don't have raw numbers, but the amount of \"i can't find anything to do\" from new players has risen noticeably. new players are our lifeblood in test and this change makes it harder for us to keep them around until they can become self-sufficient in null."
"read: \"here, little bees and nc brosefs, is the template that your responses should follow, so that i can present our case.\" this is not feedback. this is a templated petition masquerading as a call for feedback."
"my alliance lost a lot of good ratting space due to this change. we had to kick a lot of carebear members/corps to allow the pvpers who fight for the space to be able to get the isk they need. i think that is the way it should be. no way you can make 120k lp per hour in high sec unless your running maybe 5+ characters each doing their owns missions (ie botting)."
"i'm not a bittervet (i've only been playing since late last year), so i can't say, \"oh, this is awful, you need to go back to x date and how things were in y expansion.\"what i do know is that before i took a little break shortly after the siege of 6vdt i did most of my money making up in deklein. i remember running multiple sanctums and some days making upwards up 200mil after a few good hours of this. money? yes. amazing money? not exactly.now i can't even make that \"not exactly\" good money. i can't take out new players (like i did in deklein) to tag along and help do what paltry dps they could in frigates just to get a feel for a fleet. i was forced to sell an alt just so that i could get some kind of cash to buy a couple plex and some ships i needed.i've gone to my alliance forums offering probing services in hopes of generating some kind of income.as i said, i'm not an old player, i don't even play a ton as it is, but what i do know is that just a few months ago i could log on, go to a system, use my ship's onboard scanner, and typically find a sanctum within 30min. knock it and a few more out and after two to three hours have made 50+mil. again, that's nothing incredible and i've heard that lvl.4 mission runners make money far easier, far safer, and in much higher sums.there's little to no risk in high sec and, arguably none, if you're not wardecced. yet the rewards are so much higher. i don't mine moongoo, now will i ever. there's only so many moons with goo to be mined and that's not something i have the skills for. what i do have the skills for is shooting rats, only things is there's not too many rats to shoot now.eve is about risk and reward. it's the #1 reason i play it. heavy risk equals high rewards. yet what is my reward for precariously wandering null in hopes of finding some rats? not much. what is my reward for going belt to belt and ratting that way? again, not much. forget trying to bring new players out along with me, i wouldn't dare.on top of this i see members of my corp so disgruntled over the lack of ways to make money they're playing on high-sec mission alts or going into wormholes. where are my friends? not with me in low-sec.i read this plan would cause alliances to fight more. that power blocks would, in time, dissolve, and that null-sec would be more of a war zone (or so what i read gave me the impression to think was the idea behind this change). yet turn outs for our ops is lower than ever. overall alliance and corp moral is the lowest i've ever seen and is filled with much shuffling of feet and chat like, \"...what am i going to do today? i could play a missioning alt but i hate missioning. i'm not in a low sec corp to play in high-sec on an alt...\"why would people dare go to fights when they have little to no means of replacing the ship they'll very likely lose? i fear this idea has backfired and instead of causing wars or strife over turf people will tightly hold onto what they have and hope no one comes to shoot at them because, well, if that happens they'll have no money to fight back. war costs money.i have plenty of ideas on what could be done, but i'll leave those for the csm and brighter minds than mine to get out.all i know is as one of test's grunts the reward does not, an any sense of the idea, match the risk. and that's a problem for a game all about risk and reward."
"this issue almost went away when the new forums launched. it should remain in light. war decs need a revamp.thanks,"
"it's not about carebears (such a useless argument...that's a totally valid way to play this game). it's about balance. and yeah, it's too easy to use wardecs to grief without much sweat off the griefer's back. that needs looking into."
"i had to stop you right there. you just called your character a toon? really?*sigh*"
"requiring a second or third account for holding a titan is the least of the problems, trust me. also, we don't need lower supercap entry barrier."
"im not looking to stop ganking. i fully accept that anything can will, and most likely, does happen with-in the eve universe and that is simply the nature of the game. all i want to do is reduce the risk for an individual, taking prudent precautions, even further. id much rather give them a reason to leave me the heck alone and pick on the next guy through the gate (lest of course if he is a corp mate).so all you wanna be ganksters can rest easy. you will just have to be extra careful in choosing your targets. there still will be plenty of careless carebears out there for you to have your wicked way with.plus the ship is still destroyed and the the cargo is still destroyed (or no longer in your possession) so the net result of an event is still the same for the poor bugger in the indy. you don't complain when people fly with partially loaded freighters to reduce the potential value of a load, nor when they scout ahead and avoid the system. you don't complain when people single stack their stuff to reduce droppage. this is just another way of reducing the potential value of one potential target to a ganking feet. the ganksters are free to take me out anyway as the module is not guaranteed to vaporise everything and there might be profit in it, but thats the thing. eve is about risk/reward and gives all players the chance to tweak the percentages in their favour. better % on turret tracking, on speed, on lock time, in refining waste.... and so on... one of the few parameters that are not skill/module tweak-able is the 50% drop rule. this idea changes that. dont forget that it works both ways.. if you are unfortunate (stupid) enough to get taken by npc rats then your chances of recovering any loot is also drastically reduced.i kinda like the idea of it being a permanent modification of the ship (ie cant be undone) as that adds risk for the pilot choosing this option that way you stand to loose more (less hope of recovery in any ship loss) but there still need to be an item in the cargo hold (permanent, and also reducing m3 capacity) to expressly flag the existence of this mod to anyone scanning the contents.along with the cargo reduction you would also take a permanent hit to max cap and quite possibly on max velocity too.in the long run i believe pilots have the right to choose to destroy what is about to be taken if they so wish. a f### you! clause if you like. i should be allowed to make it as difficult as i possibly can for you to profit from me, and while this doesn't stop you from playing, or from ganking me should you so wish, it does - by fractions - increase the chance you will let me past and pick on the next guy."
"absolutely. i couldn't agree more.. learn your ship and the best way to protect it. if you don't then i have little sympathy for you. i'm just seeking to add that little something more. you notice this idea doesn't protect my ship, or its cargo. in fact it costs my plenty to train for and fit this modification (permanent fixture so i need to buy one for every ship i have) it even reduces my cargo capacity and affects the power,cpu, and cap available (permanently) all it does is reduce the potential value of the wreckage, and in turn increases the chance of being left alone.the 50% chance of droppage is a value i believe a player should be able to tweak in his favour."
"the only thing wrong with suicide ganking as it is is that concord must kill you for it.hurray for beatable concord."
"agreed, but that said that if you want to be a s### then are you trying to claim that the game should bend over backwards to make your road to douchebaggery all violets and roses?while yes, good tanking and avoiding the heck out of jita and other hot-spots is a good first step some times you simply cant avoid a good ganking. as has been said, its part of the game.but, as you say, if i have every right to be a girefing little gankster if i wan't and let all the care-bears can go spin, then why do i not also have the right to want to be a truculent belligerent little s### and say \"s## you! you want to blow up my ship for the cargo... well i will do my best to deny you that prize (presses the big red button marked 'splode the load!')douchebaggery come in many flavors, including wanting to give the middle finger to ganksters. and by your own rational, that should be allowed just as much as the ganking in the first place..."
"so far the the main argument seems to be that \"you cant stop me from being a gankster, it's part of eve to allow douchbaggery of this kind\"i don't want to stop you. as it has been said, twisted and morally dubious routes round problems in the path of profit are a hallmark of eve. and i applaud such thinking. heck i'm the one proposing putting nukes in the cargo hold to ##### you over, so how messed up are my morals.all i am asking for is a way of decreasing the %chance of loot drop when the inevitable happens and my ship containing that titan bpo goes all 'sploady-like.now it seems that not many of you have spotted the obvious just yet..the 50/50 chance of a module or stack dropping is currently locked. it can't be altered. but if it was unlocked, then haulers would be free to decrease it but, to be fair, surely there would be modules that would increase it. see? i wonder how many of you would be equally opposed to a module that increases drop % ? not many i would guess. and since when has ccp been in the habit of introducing something without the possibility of countering it?"
"actually a 'destroy my cargo' bomb as a '**** you' sounds pretty cool.that said, this is a micro-level issue you're not likely to ever see implemented, given the various sucking chest wounds in the game we have to triage."
"or players acting on concord's behalf, like ccp was considering at fanfest..."
"actually. my friend here at work actually came up with a variant on this idea that so made me smile. no actually it made me grin like a madman.rather than a bomb that attempts vaporise your cargo on ship destruction he suggested that you can use highly explosive devices that are disguised as something tasty. they sit in your cargo hold and are prone to the same 50% chance of surviving as anything else then, and here is the sneaky bit, once they get jettisoned they arm.. and sit waiting.the ganksters have long since been vaped by concorde and you have limped back to base in your pod. then the sweepers come out and loot your shattered remains. as they gleefully chuckle at all the nice goodies they are scooping up they are unaware that there is one heck of a surprise in his immediate future. any armed device that is dragged into the cargo hold of a ship will explode (big damage, inside the shield and armour so it acts directly on the structure). if the hauler is smart he will have multiple devices on board to assure that at least one survives. this doesn't stop the ganksters hitting you, but forces the sweeper to think carefully about what he is sweeping up. as to how you disguise the devices.. hmmn.. may be they have a holographic generator and you have to feed it a bpc (so this ain't gonna be cheap!) of the thing you want it to mimic. you would be able to tell the fakes as they would be the wrong mass.maybe you could set it to explode on being dragged into a hold or set a timer and hope that it goes off in their corp hanger for max damage :) ho yes that would be good :)the key important thing is that these things need to be spaced by explosive decompression to arm.. (transferring from hold to can or manual jettisoning should not arm them)"
"i started writing a massive wall of text about how they sucked but tbh i think this is better.remove them or limit them to one per system at least.promotes pvp.adds risk again to 0.0.makes logistics, logistical again.makes 0.0 big again. no more jumping to deepest 0.0 systems in 3 jumps.cheers"
"supporting"
"no. doesn't promote pvp, it promotes being lazy by sitting at a gate for hours. you can do what everyone else does and cloak by jb and gank people jumping in. as they are not cloaked, it's easier to catch people. it also promotes pos bashing, something that has declined a lot from dominion. risk. see above.logistics. still have cov op transports. rorquals, jfs, and carriers that can use cyno gens/cyno ship fodder are not affected so it really doesn't change stuff that much. people still use scouts while moving stuff. i don't know what part of null you are referring to, but from hed to a system in paragon soul takes 9 jbs. another 8 from a system in etherum reach to cobalt edge. then a path going from tribute to tenal seems to be impossible without having gate jump from deklien to branch. all are rough estimated, i just checked on dotlan real quick. but yeah... 3 jumps for deepest system is a bit of an underestimate. so no, keep jbs cuz it's a perk for having sov and also saves the dieing reason of pos bashing."
"its not easier to catch people on jump bridges. with the right gang its possible but not easier.pos bashing is one of the worst aspects of eve. this was why the mechanics of sov holding changed in dominion.exactly! we have specific ships to move out juicy loot ect. jump bridges makes its easy to move loot like this in any ships. i wasn't trying to be accurate with my jump estimate. but my point stands that in the past systems that would take 30 jumps to get to now take in general about 1/4 of the time with almost zero risk.i'd like to end by asking you how many times have you been killed traveling on jump bridges compared to traditional gate to gate in-order to answer your first point.martin"
"i can promote this. i cant kill squat these days with all the jumpbridging around :("
"\"your just a joke who thinks he knows what peace is.\"- first off, it's \"you're\", or \"you are\", please don't try to use words that are beyond you when you obviously stopped paying attention in school quite early (early enough that the proper use of contractions obviously befuddles you). beyond your inability to properly express your opinions in english, peace is a lot of different things to a lot of different people. perhaps your ideal of peace is one where every human being is dead. i think that peace is something obtainable where all people of all walks of life coexist and do away with ideas that suggest that other people are less deserving of life than others.\"i'll tell you what peace is.... peace is mutually assured destruction.\"- has anyone ever expressed the feeling that you should have been born sometime in the dark ages? if they didn't, they probably thought it and were just civilized enough to hope you never procreated.\"peace is a lie... a total fabrication of your mind.\"- maybe so, but i'd rather be the \"fool\" who believes in peace than the bigot who fears so much of the world that the only way to approach it is through violence.\"your definition of peace is where you don't get shot at and make all the isk you want. my definition of peace is literally ending your career in-game so i don't have to hear you whine when someone suicide ganks you.\" - my hope was that a few thousand people could make a show for global peace. my definition of peace has never been expressed. all i've asked for is an opportunity to show the world that peace is an option. also, 'all the isk i want' is never more than enough to buy a few modules a month and a few frigates to leave in stations i don't plan to revisit for at least a few weeks. suicide gank my velators all you want.\"peace is a subjective stuffed toy... it gets tossed... ran over.. changed... stitched... and torn up again... not to mention set on fire.\"- peace is defined as the absence of hostility, hostility being just about everything you described. being \"tossed\", \"ran over\", \"changed\", \"stitched\", \"torn up again\", and being \"set on fire\" - these are all hostile actions when they're forced upon another person. peace is the absence of these things.\"the goal in my book is cooperation... i cooperate with you to take down my foes. i cooperate with my foe to take down a common foe.\"- and what else is peace other than the cooperation of all beings? who will you shoot when all your \"foes\" have been vanquished or assimilated? even if...no...especially if you're the greatest maker of war, one who eventually conquered all else, who would you make war with? the only option left would be yourself. the only challenge would be ceasing to make war so that you, to put it in terms you might understand, conquered your self.\"and along the way we get some laughs. have some fun. because this is just a game. so please, take your carebear peacemaking excuse of a pipe and shove it where the sun don't shine.\"- this is just a game, which is why i don't see the harm in 24 hours of in-game universal peace. as far as the pipe comment goes, i took my pipe and shoved it where the sun doesn't shine. i haven't touched my pipe in weeks, it's still sitting in the dark corner of a drawer i soon hope to forget so that i never have to subject myself to the desensitized nature which the pipe creates. maybe you should do the same.\"because this is eve online... and we all aim to misbehave. (you can thank cap'n reynolds from firefly for that one)\"- captain reynolds, a fictional character, said that when he was determined to risk his life to bring a truth to the people of the universe he lived in to correct a wrong which had been perpetuated by those in power. also, it was from serenity, not firefly (the difference being that one was a tv series and the other was a movie).\"can i get an amen folks?\"- i see no amens."
"\"it is much easier to be critical than correct.\" - benjamin disraelii think we can see who is being critical and who is correct. there's nothing wrong with striving for peace."
"this is in entirely the wrong forum, but the world is slowly meandering towards real, lasting peace.and i think in no small part, the internet is causing that.the barriers between people of different nations are breaking down - other barriers like religion and culture will take more time.as for the idea of a peace day in eve? it would be kinda neat, but i don't think it would have any meaning if it were dev enforced."
"the sentiment behind this post is dumb, confict is what drives this game. if everyone were friends, it would die pretty quickly"
"unerf it,allows concentration of cloaky douches, ie station or true sec concentrations of cloaky douches as they don't have to cover as many systems, before i would just move system, now i cant because the risk isn't worth the reward.has stopped mining totally in my area,due to the cloaky douches concentrationhas made industry totally stop in my area, no minerals means no ships or anything being madeis not allowing me to replace pvp losses, how does this encourage pvp combat??gives the botters an unprecedented advantage,why because i won't lower myself to bot to make enough isk to replace those pvp losses, realistically ccp you have just made the game far more profitable for the boters, isk farmers etc, i don't know what you were thinking but this plan of action needs to be revised and scrapped"
"this thread is still bringing in tears?"
"unerf it!!"
"less reliance on logs is the big one for me. or just plain better and more accurate logs. i fail to understand why logs couldn't have all relevant information if the server literally handles every single calculation and transaction between client and host in the game."
"less reliance on pre-written generalised responses to petitions. not once have they helped or explained something i didnt know already, plus they just infuriate you as you dont feel any form of quality 'customer support', you just feel like you've been brushed off like some annoying tick!"
"consistency. no more coin flipping on what the result will be if the same issue is brought to two different ccp customer peeps."
"unify the petition and bug report system from a users perspective. currently if a player files a petition, say about a ship loss, and thinks it may be due to a bug he or she is told \"that should be a bug report, go file one\"a more user friendly method would be such a petition should get handed off from the gms to the bug hunting team without the player noticing. if they need more info than what is provided, the bug hunters/q+a can interact with the player as needed."
"yes back on topic. lets get more support and input on this."
"chillax bros, we're gonna fireside it up whenever we have a spotlight letter. it's not feasible to do these on a 'fixed schedule' because sometimes there's just not news to relate. like i said at the chat, the speech itself isn't so key, as much as it is 'take questions from the community at length and openly'. the big question (which will depend on the political winds) is if we do one of these pre-summit, such as may 10th-ish, or wait until post-summit. opinion seems to be shifting to a pre-summit one so we can go over our summit topics with everyone (we're already doing that in this forum, see above summit topic threads)anyway, glad you enjoyed it so much!"
"yes, pre-summit please! i love the new threads the csm team has put up and i hope they'll lead to more constructive dialogue with ccp. i personally would love to listen in on the pre-summit to hear what csm6 plans to do there based on the feedback in these threads."
"can't support this blatant advocacy of all the d*rned cursewords used in the recetn csm fireside.think of the children!"
"give sc's a siege mode which is required to deploy fb's."
"i suggest that dreadnaught get siege cannon, which may work in unique manner for every type of dreadnaught.first, dreads become anti-blob weapon, second dreads become anti-tanking weapon.amarr dreadnaughts get beam cannon effect, laser damage is focused to form one beam, which cumulates the damage, 1 weapon 1x dmg, 2 weapons - 2x dmg, 3 - 4x dmg, 4 - 8x dmg. this approach allows focus fire on heavily tanked targets, greatly multiplying the damage output on heavily armored, high hit point objects. smaller targets get significant tanking bonuses, due to signature and movement, example a pos is a perfect traget, carrier gets 90% vulnerability, battleship gets 30% vulnerability, frigate gets 0,1% vulnerability.gallente dreadnaughts get shock wave weapons - area of effect weapons, which limit blobbing and spider tanking, and encourage targets to scatter and attack from different positions, instead of linear shootout. shockwave have 98% emp damage, 2% heat damage, which mainly weakens the shields, but damages armor only at a slow rate. shockwave cannons, have 30 km radius and slow, but potent shock wave bursts, which allows to counter are affect within given timeframe.caldari get extra potent long range rail guns, with very high alpha damage, very slow reload time.minmatar get mid range potent explosive cannons, with primary explosive and mild aoe effect, shrapnel damage which renders small craft very vulnerable and can get rid of support fleet in reasonable time, unless enemy employs hit and run tactics. aoe effect is minor and does not damage heavy armor, but unlike anti-armor weapons, has no damage reduction vs size of an object, only its speed and range. micro explosive pieces break down very fast and discourage blobbing of low - medium armor targets. drones die after 2-3 volleys, interceptors get a chance to escape as their 1500 ehp can be sufficient to initiate evasive maneuvers, a fast moving interceptor never gets hit very hard as it is able to outrun the explosion cloud."
"as a permanent member of the minmatar militia since my beginnings as a character, i have watched militia combat grow and evolve remarkably over the last couple of years. despite its arguable shortcomings, faction warfare still draws a dedicated following and has had a devoted player base since its origin. the hours put in by the pilots that patrol the faction warfare zones continues to be the winning feature, as they provide the exciting game play, not the underlying npc and system control mechanics. i propose a more realistic scenario regarding plexes that utilizes ccp resources effectively, and increases the chance the time can be allocated to making improvements to the antiquated mechanics of faction warfare. simply put, i believe some of the underlying code powering the recently added incursion feature can be harnessed to add a new layer of functionality and purpose to faction warfare.the mechanics exist now for system control through successive plexing encounters, linked to a pay-per-participation system on a pilot-to-pilot basis. this could very easily be adapted to award an lp payout to militia pilots engaged in system control. pilots could be guaranteed awards for completing the various plexes, giving them a solid financial reason to spend time focused on gang and fleet warfare instead of the lucrative faction missions. similarly, ecm and other features on a system wide basis based on sovereignty could also be easily pulled from the work done on incursions. ships of every type in the game can now be seen regularly patrolling the lowsec warring regions between empires, far from the stereotyped blobs of tech 1 noobs learning to pew. there is no reason that top-level faction warfare plexes couldn't be as demanding as incursion sites (if they had the time to be revamped along with the control system itself, which i consider the priority), the militias are certainly capable of amassing enough force to complete them. system-wide effects like cynojamming are also now highly relevant to militia zones, as capital ship warfare between the militias is clearly here to stay.plexes remain a very effective way of drawing out fun pvp engagements. the problem is, orbiting a button is so boring and fruitless that just about any other way of baiting a fight becomes preferable. thus, interest in plexing has grown stale. some time zones participate more than others, but mostly no one cares anymore who owns what space. the lack of push-pull over systems makes the war seem flat in terms of universe immersion and impact, and implementing incursion-style plexing control and reward solves both the financial reward issue (keeping pilots engaged in pvp, not farming missions) and the storyline/immersion issue. there becomes tangible, real-world consequences to the day to day fighting in militia territories that take some of the burden off the militia corps to constantly come up with reasons to keep their troops out in combat besides mindless killmail lust.thanks to the council for your time and consideration. i know ccp is busy and wants to stay on the cutting edge, this is a more reasonable compromise that doesn't require a massive gamble revamping a system that may or not draw more players, as supposed to working on more global improvements."
"we all know the broken nature of the bounty system in eve, and it has been discussed many times before, but i think there is an opportunity to fix this and simultaneously encourage the upcoming introduction of incarna. (and thus hope that this would actually encourage ccp to do this.)basic rules to new bounty system:1) a bounty can only be posted onto a character when they have committed a crime such as would get them flagged in high sec or low sec (under all the current events that cause a gcc and/or grant kill rights.) only the specific \"wronged\" party would have a set period to place a bounty upon the criminal, and could correspond to the typical current timers. a limit to bounties depending upon the crime is perhaps a thought to flesh out.2) to collect a bounty you must pod the pilot with the bounty on him. is this tough? sure, but we know there are techniques such as smart-bombing right before a player gets popped; but that will be part of the fun/challenge. (podding a pilot with a bounty should not result in a sec status hit or being tagged as a criminal.) 3) the player who had the bounty and was \"killed\" will find themselves waking up at a station where their med clone is at, but in the incarna concord \"jail.\" this mechanic would obviously need some fleshing out with the existence of clone vats or if med clone is not up to date etc but the idea is there. or perhaps the pilot would arrive at one of several key detention centers (such as at one of the trade hubs where lots of players are always to be found) in their equivalent medical clone.4) to get out of \"jail,\" the player would have to pay the concord npc jailer the exact same amount as the bounty that had been placed upon them. this would then negate the exploit of corp mates or alts killing and collecting the bounty, not to mention the possible implant loss.5) if the player lacks the funds to get out of jail then they would have access to a \"lounge\" where other players could leave \"postings\" or face to face interaction with those offering their services as a bail bondsman. the bail system would work that if another player posts your bail then 50% of all future income earned by the bailed out criminal would be \"taxed\" and deposited into the bonding player's account with a 20% interest rate added. this would be represented in your wallet just as current corporate tax is assessed. this would continue until the total amount of the bond has been paid.this would 1) fix the exploit 2) encourage interaction in incarna 3) would fix an old feature that should work and would be a way to answer some carebear complaints about gankers etc. it would encourage bounty hunters i'm fairly new to the game so i'm sure there are holes in this plan but i'm sure some more experiences players could fill out this concept."
"this would be exploited a lot."
"if you removed c*o*n*c*o*r*d from the game entirely, you could nip suicide-ganking in the bud :p"
"so the options are 'old lady with a whole broom up her backside' or far too many f*bombs, '****** jokes' and using 'gay' as a punch-line and making fun of jewish sounding names? good to know - thanks for educating us all. it was childish profanity for no reason other than to try to look cool, or an inability to be professional. sorry posting that crap in an alliance channel is one thing, doing it as a csm offical chat quite another. remember people have families, my niece heard part of it before i could muffle it - which was the last thing i thought i would need to do. not professional."
"this is a very good question and it's key to understanding the ccp/csm dynamic. game designers aren't interested in letting players do their job for them. like i said during the campaign, the csm is a feedback group and advocacy group, not a team of amateur game designers. devs will accept macro-level suggestions ('farms and fields in nullsec, iterative ship balance, stop abandoning features') and smile and nod and ignore micro-level suggestions ('tweak blaster tracking 15%'). that's just how it works. you persuade people by speaking to them in a language they'll accept and understand. that said, bff is full of 'micro issues'. the important thing to consider is that we have bff because it was a macro-level suggestion ('iterate on all these little forgotten issues') which was implemented, not because each of the thousand papercuts were individually advocated. that's why csm6 is interested in \"ship balance iteration\" as a macro issue: put a dedicated team or a couple of devs on ship balance constantly, rather than pushing out overnerfs or overbuffs every year or two, randomly. tackling the macro issues covers a wider range of micro issues. from a certain perspective it's a strategic choice on csm6's part, one that you might not agree with. but that's our perspective."
"you're a p terrible troll duder.here, check it."
"no i am not a troll, i admit i missed the 'warning' as who would expect such a thing from the csm? a fail on my part (and others) as it was so unexpected. guess my point was, in case you missed it, it wasn't appropriate. however kudos to a goon covering for a goon. so rare in this channel. soon the channel will be nothing but goons and you can be happy... at the expense of csm appearing valid."
"if you think the csm isn't valid because i say '****', there's no hope for you anyway vov"
"i definitely understand it as a strategy for the csm, i was only wondering why it seems that ccp is totally against even considering micro suggestions from the csm/playerbase. reading these forums, there are some very good micro suggestions that ccp should be at least taking into account when they go to iterate on existing mechanics/features.all told, i support what csm6 is aiming for and i hope it works!"
"this is why i votedtroll proof <3"
"a good example of why is during the threadnaught on rockets. there was a formula which we, the players, thought missile damage is derived from. we knew it wasn't \"the official formula\", but from testing it was close enough in results that we pretty much took it as more or less the way it worked.we posted pages and pages of discussion on rockets based on that formula. there were pros and cons of tweaking it this way and that. discussions on if the recipe was completely stupid and if we needed to move from coke to new coke. people spent hours thinking over that formula.so a couple years pass, ccp finally announces \"we're fixing rockets!\". and tucked in that little announcement, deep in the forums, was a little tidbit saying the formula we'd been working off of is nothing like what's actually on the server.a lot of time, as players, we work from knowledge we think is true. but it actually isn't."
"maybe its time to learn to use the most efffective file sharing way?now this was their first session, and its not like they are going to give you explicit detail for 2 hours. they would run out of things to speak the next month. sure it could have covered more facts. afterall this is a sort of csm report to the general public, but csm are people like you and me."
"just checking in to say this was very informative and that the csm has my support. a fireside chat like this is a very good way to reach lots of people who'd otherwise only really notice the csm's presence around election time. mittani did speak like 80-90% of the time (especially later in the q&a session more of the other csm were talking), maybe to avoid controversy a bit the others should get more speaking time too.the macro approach seems like the best way to use the csm<U+FFFD>s arguably limited resources. good to see ccp veritas is picking up on the time dilation thing, let<U+FFFD>s see where it goes. anyways.. keep up the good work, i'm so far content with how i voted :)"
"can i suggest a the production of a variety of signatures people can used to visibly support the csm in every post they make. obviously, different flavours should be make available ;)."
"i listened to it today, pretty good. very positive. i like the approach this csm is taking.one small request though - please cut down on the profanity!"
"that was very good."
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images.what a pos should have been..."
"what, a half-built skeleton that blows up at the least provocation? mission accomplished. seriously, reducing the pain of pos management is high on our list of priorities. see this thread asking for suggestions, and also peruse csm5's possible practical pos performance proposal."
"this is in response to the csm 6 april 2011 - qa session, specifically: 01:07:34  thoughts on fixing mining and pve so it isnt boring.while i did not attend the q/a i did listen to the \"official\" audio file. while no hard ideas were thrown around at the qa session csm mittens did ask for suggestions. more or less.(csm qa thread can be found here)first let me preface this by saying im a new player. i reactivated my old old trial account when i heard eve had gotten a ui update and since then i've spent about 4 or 5 months running mission. i don't mine space-rocks, i don't build stuff, i shoot mission rats and that's about it.my biggest complaint about missions and mission rats would have to be how hands off it feels. while im now onto the more profitable l4's, when i was running l3's i was doing them with a cap-stable myrmidon armor tank. all i had to do was warp into the mission hub, get everyone's attention and launch my drones. after that next to no input was required from me. i checked to make sure my drones were safe and that my tank was stable and that was it. if something went wrong i recalled my drones and/or warped out, depending how far down ****-creek things were. l4's with a battleship are not much better. i deliberately moved to a cap-unstable tank if only so i would have to flick a module on and off every now and then.my second biggest complaint is how stupid and numerous mission rats are. while yes, it does feel awesome to be tanking 20 guys at once it also feels very silly after a while. i mean that last guristas pirate is either really stupid or really brave. i've killed off all his buddy's but gosh-darn-it if he keeps shooting me he might just get me.so that's what i think is wrong with missions, what would i do to fix it?personally, less is more. sleeper and incursion ai have proven that rats in eve can be more intelligent than they currently are. i would rather fight fewer, but smarter rats than a massive blob of kindergarten drop-outs.i'd like to move out to nulsec some time in the future but i know i am learning some very bad habits from fighting rats. eve is a game with a massive pvp focus and in my opinion the pve content should be doing a better job of teaching the bare-bone basics to new players because right now i don't think its teaching anything. im not asking for incursion levels of smart, just something that can keep things interesting."
"so the csm said no one really laid out how they felt factional warfare should work. well ok then, i expect at least some csm feedback. this is from mostly a pvp perspective. one the things i found jarring was when the csm said factional warfare had meet it's goal for pvp. sorry but that's total false. it has failed hard. 2 years ago when i was an fc, there was 400-500 people online in channel at any given time. 2000 players were actively logged on for the 1st 5 months just for factional warfare. *assuming minmatar was about the same as other militias* the good!plex room pvp! -the timer pvp idea is awesome. it becomes a sort of capture the flag by staying alive for 10-20 minutes. -ship size restrictions lead to awesome 15 on 20 cruiser fights with no logistics and fun set ups. militia window -the factional warfare window shows you where the action is and whats going down. corp leader boards and so on were fun. -the reward was the pvp, you didn't get a bonus of owning a planet you got a ticker in the militia window which gave a personal pilot by pilot, corp by corp instance reward for killing people!alliance tourney involvement -fw spiked to 600 people online in minmatar side alone at peak times for the month before at7. -fw let players that were not part of a bug alliance a chance to fight in the at. the problemsabandonment -they didn't balance anything. they just said, f it, it'll work it's self out, the pvp is the reward, that's all people need to use this forever.-easily could of been a huge part of the npe. a way to get people into pvp, in the the same way incursions feel now.factional warfare missions -badly balanced, they don't become public for anyone to wrap too let they were suppose to, no one is even in fw anymore to defend these sites. -completing missions does not give you more control over a system. -having to keep going back over and over again means they had to make the missions short and fast, thus the issue with bombers finishing them to easily.system sov -no reason owning a system -ccp said the reward is the pvp! *bull****, if they were right about this fw wouldn't be the graveyard it is today* -impossible to tell how far along system contesting is -different time zones meant the other side would just wipe out all your work every night. -larger sites could just be speed tanked, unless you were fighting the gallente, who were the only npc that web. this is really stupid.so with no reason to reason to fight, there is no reason to pvp. i will post my suggestions based on what i see as the problems with factional warfare on a later date when i have less work to finish. but i found it important to point out what i see as the problems. also it should note that a lot of roleplayers took part in fw. it was like a haven before it became abandoned. in the end ccp needed to stick a set of core gameplay in eve and fix it. feature abandonment is something mmos looking for ways to keep players for just a little longer use. fw has the potential to bring new players into eve with an easy fast way to get pvp while keeping pve elements."
"/signed"
"work around:right click on module and it should give you a menu of what crystals are in your cargo bay you can load into your strip miner"
"what we need is a methos to disable players who go about griefing in these hub systems, regardless of standings players should not be able to activate any weapon of destruction. if these systems were conisdered safe havens then trade would generate a safe area for thos wishing to make money, instead places like jita are crowded and filled full of criminals all wanting to scam the first player who walks through the station door. we need more power over the policing in these hub systems."
"sounds like we would be better off without you. and your \"my way or i quit\" mentality.... too bad you didn't resign. seriously folks the current csm crop should have been left to wither on the vine. i will say that trebor, wipe tree and vile hat, in addition to kruton and uaxdeaf for their part-have the same sized heads as they had pre-election. even if uax didn't pay me the 50 bn isk we agreed on to sabotage geminate operations-he is still ok guy, and kruton makes my salad crunchy so how could i complain about him? ccp is getting what they wanted though-more publicity and more interest in the csm. the mittani with his \"strong enough for a man-made for a woman\" mentality is getting the job done, and while he may be \"ph balanced\" his enormous ego will push the csm to new heights and lows, in terms of publicity and popularity. should be an interesting year for the csm as well as those that follow them. seleene would have been much better vice chair than some whiner douchette that threatens to withdraw because it couldnt get it's way. (it rubs the lotion on it's skin or it gets the hose again)"
"ummm... that was sarcasm, dude."
"it was a joke.. please good sir.. please put down the mouse and step away from the keyboard."
"i'm all for innovation and driving for results, though i have to admit that the informal nature of what csm6 has planned is somewhat concerning. i don't doubt that there will be quite a fair bit of conversation and thorough picking apart issues to reach a consensus... what i am worried about is the lack of transparency whether actual or perceived.as an example, the community at large could see when csm5 was meeting, how often, the topics scheduled for the meeting, the outcome of those discussions, and other such accountabilities. with the informal processes mentioned, how does csm6 plan to keep us in the loop? i would assume this concern is what gave rise to the \"fireside\" chats; i'm hoping to dig into that sometime over the weekend.i'm willing to give csm6 the benefit of the doubt (why does that sound grammatically awful?). it's new, bridges haven't yet been crossed and i can't just go into :tinfoilhat: mode right out of the gate (wouldn't be fair). still though, cautiously watching before i get my stockings in a twist.comments from the delegates?"
"the fireside chats act as a public forum and a give and take regarding csm6's thought process. we're open to altering our objectives based on information that is posted here, or is relayed back through the fireside chats. as for the reasoning behind the level of concern with regards to our persistent skype conversation; i don't follow the logic. the csm are entitled to their privacy with matters relating to documents which may fall under nda. as far as i am concerned, the backlash it is simply an extension of the inherent distrust expressed by members of the playbase when it comes to the nature of csm6. most of which is entirely unfounded and is often a simple case of judging the individual based on the actions of a group, something that is frowned upon in, i dunno, human society as a whole.csm6 is entirely dedicated to the process and have taken steps to keep both themselves and the playerbase informed on a level that no other csm in the history of the establishment ever has. that being said, there are going to be individuals who outright refuse to see what good work is done based on internalized bias. if our actions cannot speak louder than their words then i, personally, have no interest in maintaining a dialog with them."
"most of the time we have spent so far has not been on indiviual issues, but rather on the general process, what we should focus on for the first session in terms of topics, not in term of stance (though we do share a stance on most issues), about communication, how to accomplish things, etc.there will be issue meetings with raw conversation logs, but what we have done so far amounts to what every csm in the past has done through emails and informal conversations.the difference is that csm 6 is doing much much more of that."
"i think most people want a fully transparent and open csm crann b<U+FFFD>n.i have to say the 'fire side chat' was a great start,though i would like to hear more from the other csm reps.i think something that concerns a lot of people is the lack of information that the player base gets from these informal meetings you have on skype etc,etc.where you have regular discussions which are neither recorded nor made public.we need to be able to see exactly how each of the csm reps are doing their jobs,to be able to judge them and see if they are really worthy of holding that position.the distrust part to be fair has been earned,as we've all seen the forum hype from certain voting blocks who's main aim was to try and stop changes they saw as being detrimental to their coalitions and style of play.rather than doing what the csm is supposed to,which is greatest good for the greater player base.even if that means pushing for changes that are detrimental to some but balance the game as a whole and make it better and more fun. for example the 'time dialation' seems more geared towards helping massive coalitions cram as many people as possible into one system at one focal point.instead of looking at ways to bring forward a truely epic scenario.where we get dramatic end game fights involving power blocks clashing full on over a massive battle front in multipul areas.where a whole variety of different tactics can be used and come into play from sabotage and guerrilla warfare behind enemy lines to logistical interception,stopping your enemy from being able to resupply it's front lines etc,etc.time dialation does look to have some benefits(cutting down lag).though it has the potential to bring some added problems(the game will be slowed down but our real time reactions won't,will this lead to battles lasting hours that end in a stalemate as we will be able to react in real time to getting yellow boxed).anyway so far things seem to be going ok though not ideal.we just need more open information passed down to the player base,within reason of course."
"i'm lost in counting all the jokes made by csm-6 in this thread but as a comedy team you guys suck and i prefer comedy central instead, or the muppetshow.so please do what you guys are trying to be good in, to be councillors of stellar management."
"just finished listening to your new audio blog and really enjoyed it.just an idea... have you thought about doing it as a podcast on itunes? could make it easier to access and double up as free advertising for eve.ive wanted a regular official eve podcast for a while but i would love if ccp sponsored more player created media like clear skies."
"the tier system needs to be abolished for frigates, cruisers, and battlecruisers (low tier bs are pretty much all fine). it makes no sense to have ~half the hulls in game be rendered completely useless by a lack of slots/fitting room/useful roles.assault frigates and electronic attack ships need a fourth bonus/re-examination, respectively. assault frigs are fun but rather underwhelming; eafs are basically always outperformed by the corresponding recon. would be nice to see the speed and agility of afs pushed up to match their t1 counterparts (in addition to getting sensible 4th bonuses), and for eafs to get an interceptor-like sig reduction, perhaps.the dramiel needs a nerf; at the moment, it effectively obsoletes almost every other combat frigate in the game. the worm (and to a slightly lesser extent, the cruor and succubus as well) could use a little buff. the daredevil's about right for a pirate frigate - very powerful, with a couple of unique characteristics that give it some flavor that other frigates lack, but also a well-defined set of weaknesses that mean it can be beaten by other hulls in its class even when well fit and flown.both unprobeability and the ability to provide ganglink bonuses from off-grid locations should be eliminated, for risk-reward reasons in both cases. off-grid boosting makes it possible to contribute significantly to the outcome of a fight without placing one's ship in harm's way; unprobeability greatly enhances this for t3 boosters and massively reduces the risks associated with running missions and escalations in supposedly hostile space without meaningfully reducing the rewards for doing so.medium and large hybrid platforms in general need a reassessment, as they're rather underwhelming for various reasons. small blasters and rails (and the hulls that use them) are extremely competitive, and need no attention."
"super carriersjust that. they are meant to be super carriers, not mini titans"
"first , thank you for this initiative! lets hope ccp will listen to you.obviously hybrids/gallente ships are the worst bag atm.if you decide to fix gallente via ship changes you really need to fix all galente ships, so clearly it is a gun problem. for blasters the paper damage is ok, it the applied damage that sux. the reason is 2 fold. tracking and range since the web nerf. the answer is right there, it really can be that simple. boost tracking and give gallente web bonus or give speed bonus. if speed bonus remember tracking suffers. if web then remember why the nerf was introduced. make blasters the shotgun weapon. pg requirement of those big blasters need a look at since you cant fit them and still have a tank. thats a bit harsh. alternately rethink blasters completely, scrap it give it a new name and make a totally new concept.rails, plain suck. and they are more complicated. they really only do with antimatter so their damage type is limited and they dont do enough of it. maybe they can be fixed with ammo changes?"
"black opskai lae from morsus mihi wrote a very good analysis on them in the \"black ops - upcoming changes\" thread from 2009. even abathur/seleene complimented his efforts.i basically agrees with everything he wrote, but what i think he missed is the timespan a bo is locked in place during a bridge. it would be nice for a bo pilot to be able to cut the bridge short and jump to the covert cyno. that would allow the bos to see a bit more action than just act as glorified bridges for bombers."
"infortunatly when i've created my char didn't saw any lightening window saying i was about to make the worst choice for general game fun:why use ships designed for very short engagements ranges when:- they can't survive until they get in to the said distance- don't have enough speed/web/scram base bonus to counter kitters- don't have the appropriate bonus to make their anaemic blasters do real damage- use huge amounts or their shy cap when shooting- use t2 ammo with tracking drawback -the shown numbers in eft/info are not advantage/applied in game last question: why should any one want to fly gallente for other thing than drone boats actually?edit: drone boats that can be more effective with a full rack of t2 autocanons than half high slots with neutrons or full ions? -looks like a big fail design or real issue that even a blind can see."
"i can't find fault with this statement."
"meh, edit.blaster boats needs completely rethinking. currently they don't have the speed or ability to dictate engagement range, they don't have the agility to mitigate tracking concerns, they don't live long enough to get into optimal and their energy reserves are too depleted even if they do. warp scramblers shutting down mwds and the ascension of the autocannon were the final nails in the blaster boats coffin.railguns need significant changes such as:one ammo type but a cool capacitor-consumption slideybar tied in with the overheat mechanic, so you can melt your guns in one pop by discharging your entire capacitor into your weapons for a headshot or you can paint-chip at short range with higher tracking. obviously the former example would be \"in the red\" and there should be a \"safe\" cap-hungry setting for more artillery-type performance.shield piercing or armor piercing shells.lower fitting requirements or changes to the hulls in questionactive armor tanking and the ships that use it...suck, fix it. the armor repair bonus on most hulls is a complete and utter waste.drone bw limit on myrmidonraise itinformation warfare linkscan we make these less crap or at least change them so that they actually do something for their racial class?ccp needs a dedicated balance team to tackle these issues. they are too deep and too complex for a lone dev to jump in and make ill-advised changes.eve is an rpg at its core, and to not have some dedicated staff devoted to what is effectively the core game mechanics - regardless of whether it's an emergent sandbox or not - just looks silly. just look at what happened with motherships/supercarriers when one dev decided to take an idea and run with it - it was a disaster."
"not to mention the possibility of implementing an active direct counter to cloaking."
"there will always be a ship class that does x better than any other classes.the only solution to this is to pull a blizzard and nerf the **** out of a,b,c classes once every few months so that x,y,z classes are the new top dog.its a ******ed way to run a game and i won't support it."
"sure there'll always be a ship class that does x better than any other class, and that's good and proper. the problem is the classes, or ships within a class, that either don't do any role better than other classes (or ships within their class) or do every role better. not going to bother with indepth examples as, well, see the last few pages... but i don't really want to play drakes vs. abaddons (with occasional sc drops) online."
"strong emphasis needs to be placed on the issue of power creep. imo nerfing > buffing however both are needed to create balance.ships that need to be nerfed imo :-dramiel - has rendered alot of frigates obsolete. it excels in too many roles. one of the following needs to be picked get rid of drone bay/ reduce speed / reduce pg to get rid of ability to dual prop + mse.supercariers - not entirely sure what needs to be fixed but in their current form they make regular caps obsolete.tier 2 bcs - imo although they are very balenced against themselves they are op in comparision to tier 1 bs, all t1 cruisers and tier 1 bcs. they need either a dps nerf or a ehp reduction.mechanics that need changing :-imo the whole ecm jamming mechanic needs changing. it is not op at all its just very simply unfun, its a mechanic that really makes pvp not worth while.ships that need buffing:-black ops - i think they are actually quite ok as they are. the main issue with them is the fuel bay as they don't even have a big enough fuel bay to jump a proper recon fleet to their max jump range. i would recommend either increasing fuel bay by a factor of 5 or massively reducing the amount of fuel required to jump and bridge.t1 destroyers - with the introduction with the noctis they serve no purpose. need reduction to signature and speed increase to give them more survivability against cruiser sized hulls and greater."
"the other black ops suggestions + this one are a good place to start on rebalancing their lineup.if they're going to be just a mobile jump bridge/logistics boat like so many enjoy pointing out, then make them at least decent at it. a larger fuel bay, smaller fuel requirements for bridging and jumps, longer jump range and perhaps the ability to refit their covert ops gang in the field? maybe a larger cargo bay to carry ammunition for bombers and recons?and t2 resists. the cost and training requirements for these things are immense - please bring the performance of the ship in line with what it takes to get in one."
"there was a post a while ago about changing the skill bonus on freighters from a maximum velocity bonus to an agility bonus that i thought was a good idea and seemed to have a lot of support. please see:"
"no it's not and this is crap that gets repeated all the time by people who haven't looked at the map and done the math.the problem is that there in only one conquerable 0.0 region that has more usable manufacturing slots than the system of jita (two or three others come close). go one jump from jita and you're way over 1000 manufacturing slots. go two jumps from jita and you have more manufacturing slots than the whole of conquerable 0.0 taken together. the well-developed region of deklein would need to use 70% of its production capacity 24/7 only to supply ammo for ratters in the region. if you want to provide t2 ammo to your fleets - a whole day of ammo production in every slot in deklein can keep a maelstrom fleet (lowest ammo consumption) shooting for six minutes.if you make hauling from empire harder all it will do is to make people stage their invasion/defense fleets in empire and completely remove any need for any markets and production in 0.0 outside of supercaps and ratter ammo."
"damn straight bagdon. it is not an option to use pos' as the access control in pos' pretty much prevents anyone but a trusted core from producing things at the pos. i think the main issues for nullsec indy really boil down to copious amounts of manufacturing slots (non-pos) and local acquisition of low-end minerals. from the farmer perspective, the region-wide intel channels means that everyone safes up well before you ever get into system. surprises don't happen often unless you awox or the other person is stupid and soon to no longer be in 0.0. outside of the slot issue, there needs to be a way to be able to locally source materials at a group level (small gang) while providing a plausible risk to the carebear gang from outside farmers looking to harvest carebear tears. blob mechanics and responses being what they are (and highly unlikely to disappear), the small roaming gang needs to be able to hop in the system and out with a plausible chance of catching the indy-oriented crew.w-space would seem to be the best way to make this work. a few meta comments related to that:- mineral compression has always seemed borked. inevitably what you get now is that you pay somebody in empire (usually kazuo) to gather the mins and compress them. your alliance jf logistics get your supplies out (2 jf for a super carrier). somebody in high command then does your mineral reprocessing (to avoid the station fee). you then run crap tons of freighter loads with the uncompressed minerals to your pos. while there is a bit of geek appeal in fine tuning the compression, this has always seemed like a half-assed way of doing it. why not add in explicit support for compression via the ingot concept (compression levels on par with what a rorq does for ore)? heck, run it through the rorq or something to add excitement and keep it low-sec and below. make it such that an ingot works as input to the manufacturing job and you don't have to decompress it. you also dodge the high command truffle shuffle of decompression. make it so that partially used ingots get wasted or something still giving a bit of geekery for the high end builders.- balance a bit of risk versus reward by making sleeper sites (or something new) that drop tons of ingots for low ends. thus, if you want lots of low ends, turn your wormhole array up to 11 to give better sleeper site outlets. the wormhole in turn gives the ability of external roamers to dart in without tripping your region intel safety channel 5 jumps out. by tons, i am thinking about a half to a full carrier worth or something dropping in ingots of the trit, pyer, or mex. shoot for a ballpark of half an hour to an hour for the site. alternatively or in addition, throw said sites into low sec to give carebear groups a reason to wander out. or, take said site and include it as part of the industrial level. raiding said sites and taking ingots works on your indy level. include amazing amounts of scram, neuts, and all sorts of typical level 5 mission fun. basically, try to make it that if a roaming game comes calling, your chances of insta-warping out is quite low (*cough* logoffski *cough*). make npcs bubble for extra awesome sauce. the key is to balance risk versus reward. make said sites also non-soloable to keep the group focus, think incursion level types of difficulty but yet almost do-able with two carriers for the stupid. make it extremely tempting for folks to take out caps for juicy stupid cap kills :) hell, give dreads a purpose related related to it (pop a central vault) and kill two birds with one stone."
"mine does. add hauler spawns to the anom sites. pve-ers shoot up hauler spawn, but would spend a lot of time in vulnerable industrial ships bringing the minerals/ore back to a station. this increases juicy target traffic dramatically for small gang warfare. it also improves the independence of null sec from high sec minerals. it also returns the flow of isk in null sec that dropped with the anom changes."
"there is a problem when people get more minerals from ratting than they do mining. but increasing hauler spawns to increase the acquisition of low-end minerals in nullsec sounds is good as long as you don't violate this principle. to enhance synergy, the hauler spawn rate should increase with the industry level. i really like the idea of using the rorqual to create a manufacturing ready ingot. perhaps give pos's a bonus to pe when using ingot too. formalize it, as module mineral compression just seems like cheating to me."
"people mine on their own for their own income in null sec? and aren't bots? i am suggesting hauler spawn anoms, not just increasing the generic hauler spawns in belts."
"drakes should not out-mine hulks.... and gathering minerals at a despawned anomaly after ratting ships cleared it out is a little tooo risk-free."
"\"mining through ratting\" is one of the major imbalances in the current pve system, i really don't think it needs to be encouraged further (quite the opposite).the primary method of acquiring minerals in eve should be through mining (since that's all you get from mining), not as a by-product of a rival pve activity. of course, at the same time mining needs to be made not so 1-dimensional and unbearably tedious - not least because things that are 1-dimensional and unbearably tedious become prime targets for botting."
"i hope so. the prime source of minerals should always come from mining. i strongly believe the mechanic of refining/reprocessing (which ever one people use to take a module and turn it into minerals, not the one that is used to turn ore into minerals) needs to get the nerf bat in an extreme way."
"one way of doing this is to nerf the reprocessing efficiencies significantly in all systems/stations (bye bye 100% refine), but boost ore mineral content to compensate. this will make module mineral compression & loot reprocessing less viable, and encourage local sourcing through mining. perfect standings & skills in the best refinery should still only give 90% efficiency imo.with regard to burning the fields, if ihub upgrade levels were targettable substructures on the hub itself (so a level 3 entrapment array would have 3 antenna models to target for example), then smaller forces could interfere with (rather than conquer) the system. maybe have them so that they can only be deactivated (rather than destroyed) while the ihub is intact, so they can be repped up once the guerillas have left/been dealt with.edit: adding another industry upgrade type that reduced assemby array fitting reqs per level (or similar) would help too. late here, so i might come up with more random ideas by tomorrow, or realise that these are bad."
"this is an idea that i had about 6 months ago regarding marketing for eve. i went on a bit of a hiatus so i didn't get around to posting it.remake eve never fades shot for shot with the new graphics and models. change none of the existing scenes and add very little, probably just a few scenes of ships that have been released since that trailer (tier 2 bc's, t3 cruisers, ect).eve never fades has always been, and always will be, my favorite trailer and is one of the biggest reasons i starting playing eve 4 years ago. it is simply majestic, and remaking it with the new graphics will make it so that it does not look remotely out of date. doing this would most likely be somewhat difficult if ccp was to stay true to the original, as remaking all the circumstances for the scenes would take quite a bit of time, but i believe that the benefits would be well worth it: attracting new players: it goes without saying that eve never fades has a certain mistique to it that hooks people. it is probably the single most influential factor in me deciding to try out eve, and many people i have discussed the trailer with cite that as a big reason for them trying eve.bringing back old players: as stated above, over the years many people have tried eve and stuck with it just because of that awesome, awesome trailer. bringing it's visuals up to date would more than likely bring many of those people back with the power of a huge nostalgia-gasm."
"bring in new players/entice back the vets can be done in one fell swoop tbh: balance the ships we have. internet spaceship combat drives the game all the way down to the lp farmers, miners, and indies. the fact we have such long-standing ship imbalance really taints everything. make choosing your ship a real decision and not just \"lol gunna fly a ferox tonight, :trollface:.\""
"mmorpg's players are quite easy to retain or make them run away but the easier is to never make them try more than a few minutes.for the beginner a few things can make him run away fast: -ship's ui, manoeuvrability-tutorials-progress system:for the average new player the time invested playing has no positive return.like it or not but the learning skills system is painful has hell (learnings were even more stupid). some people will reply me with accounts numbers etc, but how many really play de game is a number that no one seems to like talking about.it's pretty simple, just go there and look at it from time to time.i've never seen more than a spike of 60k+ (tranquillity), how many real trials how many alts trial accounts and how many less 6 months and how many 2years + were playing? in my humble opinion it's the reward(skill progress)/time spent that doesn't retain more players than that and makes every one and his alt/troll/mother say eve's not about instant gratification blah blah blah, all blah blah.so there are too many old (+55) guys that never play internet games, too many young (-25) that like instant gratification, and not enough +25/-55 who this game attracts or simply don't like the progress system concept?hard to create some marketing process around space ships fleet battles etc and associate those with the rewarding (skills learning) concept, witch is mostly the one that makes players go away in my opinion."
"having played several mmo's myself, i would be inclined to agree with this. if a player has to try more than a few minutes to accomplish something they will most likely give up, even if what they could have accomplished is quite important. new players don't think about the magnitude of a task they could have completed, it boils down to \"did i get something done, or didn't i?\" i think the trick is to break things down a bit and take things in baby steps so the player can 'get something done' every few minutes."
"ok, great idea for a marketing video, bold white letters on a black backround saying \"we are done f*&%ing arround\", and a fighters view shot of the most epic space battle ever with thousands of ships and lasers and missiles going everwhere completely lag free."
"how about more important things that need to be delt with mr csm ?i would type something but i'd be here awhile..forget pos sheet and sort something people voted for u to do"
"the fact that the timers for anchor and unanchor are so long is simply ridiculous.i mean i can see having it take a while to set up, but when it takes 2 hours to set up pos (and having to sit there with it the vast majority of the time), and almost 4 hours to take the damn thing down its just silly. pos are worth a good bit and the fact that for most people it is more cost effective to just leave them behind in my opinion shows that something is wrong. (see abandoned towers in wormholes or else where)"
"actually, scratch these instructions. the macro instructions i would want to give to ccp would be \"make poses less eyestabbingly painful\".all they should have to do is basically just run through setting up 10 deathstars and 10 complex reactions with 4 inputs and 1 output, and coupling arrays for each input/output. after that they should maintain those reaction towers for 2 weeks with at least 2 changes in reactions."
"we need queues for anchoring and unanchoring modules. the timers are annoying, but i can see the general idea behind their existence. however, i cannot fathom what game design/balance purpose is served by forcing me to spend those hours clicking a couple of buttons, then waiting for ten minutes doing nothing, then clicking another button and waiting another ten minutes, etc. etc. as someone else said, it should be possible to draw up a plan for a pos layout, dump the requisite bits and pieces in space, and click \"assemble\" and then have it build itself over a suitably long period of time. the same goes for the teardown process - i should be able to access the tower management interface, select whichever mods i want unanchored, hit the red button, and then walk away and come back in a few hours' time rather than having to do each one individually.pos labs and manufacturing arrays need to be able to access materials from a common source rather than each having their own cargo bays. i don't care whether this is achieved by introducing a new storage module or by having the existing modules pool their storage facilities once anchored, but it's absolutely infuriating to drop off a bunch of materials in the labs and start queueing jobs only to have to go back and reshuffle your materials around because you miscalculated and accidentally put too many datacores in lab 1 and not enough in lab 2 or whatever.more options for allowing people to access specific parts of a pos' functionality without having to grant them roles that allow them to do whatever they want or even join your corp. if my buddy's pos comes under attack and i have a couple of pos gunners in an altcorp, why shouldn't i be allowed to have them man the guns for him? why is it basically impossible for me to offer full access to my labs and other facilities to my corpmates without also allowing them to take everything i have?edit:thissssssssss, only they should be obliged to tear the pos down and restore all mods and towers to their hangars at the end of the exercise as well."
"give pos's slots, like ships for the modularity (bigger pos more fittings). and have everything connected directly to the tower, maybe save guns if it makes sense to have them outside (though i think it might look cooler to have them more like turrets on hard points on the pos itself, turning to hit enemy's, utilizing those fancy new turrets coming out). allow to be able to deploy pos's for self, corp, and alliance. in addition to the whole deploying floating mods being a lengthy mess, the role thing is even more so forcing it to be a corp asset, getting roles in corp full of paranoid people can take like months.so basically lot of the ideas here."
"mission one, you should go through buying modules, fitting your noob ship, and then the very very 1st mission should wrap scramble and kill them. they should get ganked and podded. then they should wake up in goo, fall out of the cloning machine and talk to aura. who says something awesome like. \"welcome back pilot, did i mention your immortal\""
"1. the reason new-player experience sucks is because of the vet's risk-aversion. they would never want to help them (in fact, they want them to stay in the dark for as long as possible) because to them, newbies were destined to a. pad their killboards b. satisfy their epeen and last but not least c. ragequit because they're a dime a dozen.2. that's why ppl at one point or another heard the pvp suggestion, \"check their employment history.\" expand that to: if it's a 1+ year old player, avoid like the plague--if he's less than a month old, hunt him down. this is what happens when risk-aversion goes unchecked--no one else suffers except the newbies, who r usually the only ones who r bold/naive enough to take risks, risks that they've been tricked into taking for no actual reward.3. the only way the new-player experience is gonna be even remotely decent is if they were literally sheltered from the rest of eve, which is not gonna happen, due to vets exploiting alts for that purpose.as long as vets look down upon newbies as nothing but expendable killmail fodder and treat them as such, new-player experience will be nothing but that. that's where the problem really is."
"the npe is missing something to teach aggression mechanics. that normally involves pvp, so a way to do it would be to make a mission with npcs that cause flagging and have a dockable station in the mission location, for instance. or better yet, make noobs test it on each other (yep, missions that send you to aggress other players or whatever)."
"ui change to help improve the npe: add an option to show the character skills window and the item/ship prerequisites tab like a flowchart (like the certificates flowcharts / like evemon skill flowcharts) - it's hard to tell what the relationship between skills is and what your training path should be from looking at a flat list.let non-newbie-corp people join the newbie corp channels; some of us veterans would like to continue answering newbie questions even after moving on with our careers."
"let me add eve's progression system to all this -skills learning system has nothing related to what the guy accomplishes. he grinds he does boring stuff waiting until he's able to do other boring things before he can buy/use another ship and continue the boring stuff."
"remove \"wall of text\" in tutorials & npe missions.information needs to be given out in small doses, often, rather than in one lump. having access to the text as well in the journal/help screens is needed, but the game should be trying to start moving away from having large quantities of text as the primary infosource.eg: mission intros should have a clickable mini-starmap, showing the route with system names & sec statuses.tutorial also needs to keep better track of what steps have been completed, and advance immediately with a comment \"that's right\" (or whatever) instead of needing to click \"next\". some parts leave a new player wondering \"have i done what i need to do?\" . smaller doses will help thisbreak down the item attributes into sub-tabs or at least re-order them to remove clutter. new people looking at a gun want to know damage, optimal, falloff, tracking and don't much care about other stuff. note: i haven't done the new amarrian npe missions on duality yet."
"gallente ships need love."
"1.0"
"supported so hard."
"yes, please do fix gallante, currently they are all i fly and it is becoming more painfully clear how broke they are."
"1.0"
"get rid of the selected item window. perhaps by putting a set of buttons above or below the hud. a small and easily achievable step to cleaning up the display."
"i like the api addons idea, and i'd like to suggest ui skins (ccp-created or otherwise).otherwise, it's an mmo, so we need a combat log window that scrolls properly and is color-coded, and lets us customize with high granularity which messages appear and in which colors.i also believe that, in order to reduce the excel-in-space feel, the client needs to calculate some stuff for us, and/or warn us about it. for example, \"incoming damage is greater than your tank can handle\" is better than trying to memorize your resist and ehp numbers and trying to compare that to the popups about how much each enemy shot has done to you. info about ships such as \"this type of recon ship typically has a 40-70km warp disruptor\" or \"this ship is popular for its high-damage initial salvo at long range\" within the show-info window would help newbies tremendously. actually, a tab within the show-info page for each ship that is an evelopedia page would be awesome - it would let us write up this info ourselves.for industrialists, building in calculators and tools into the mining, market, or industry windows so that they could calculate stuff based on real-time market data, skills, and standings would be nice."
"it would be very nice for those of us who deal with bpo's and bpc's to have a small tag or a different colour applied that would be a easy visual indicator of the difference between a bpo and a bpc. same way as the faction ships have a small tag on them."
"when \"add bookmark\"-window is open, nothing else in ui can be interacted with by mouse-clicks. this has to change, especially since eve relies so much on mouse-clicks.remove most, if not all, right-click menus. has no place in a game. not even windows is this right-click intensive (for a reason)."
"ship's ui - actually overload all rack is fine but overload single mod is creepy, also new ui graphics would be awesomedrones ui - something more \"high tech\" with drones that actually obeywould like an option \"transparency\" for all windows.ui fontsturrets/louchers graphics - fanfeast video was a very nice beginning"
"you may want to try getting in touch with xaen. he has written much on the issue in the past.some of his suggestions have already been implemented but there are some good points which are still relevant."
"copying a bloody good one from xaen's thread in case nobody bothers to read it."
"lighten up on some of the minimum window sizes. i can resize the chat window until it's useless, but you mandate that the science window takes up a huge part of my screen.extra small station icons. we can choose large or small, but the small are still much bigger than need be.selectable font size for all fonts. yes, this might be a big programming change but it's also a big problem for many people.how about placing the messages in a scrollable window?"
"add more overview tabs. this is a constant annoyance in large fleet combat. it would help with client side lag to be able to break up the enemy fleet into smaller sections to scroll through."
"no. modal. dialogs.it was a stupid ui element when ms introduced it, it's even stupider today when we've got twenty plus years of experience with windowed uis. unless the choice the dialog offers is so overwhelmingly important that nothing else that can occur while dealing with it is of any interest, there's no justification for a modal dialog. even then, a modal dialog is bad because the desire to get past it can lead to bad decisions. but the eve ui is littered with them."
"posted these b41) eject cargo button (for mining and quick ejection of loot into a hangar)2) ammunition slot for weapons to free up cargo (crystals, bullets, charges, etc)3) drone launch + attack/return and dock button next to the weapons buttons so players dont' have to manage so many folders (makes drones act like defensive smart bombs, launch attack then return quickly to ship when nolonger needed)4) hail/sos buttons (these are for communication to neuts/friendlies but can be intercepted by pirates...roleplaying feature)5) fire at will ui button (fires all turret weapons systems onboard at a single target)6) reload all weapons ui button (reloads all weapons)other ideas floating arounda) autopilot directly to station (i've been ganked several times while afk at a jumpgate... would like to autopilot to a station and rest safely in hangar instead of being free food for pirates/militias)b) small popup starmap with adjacent systems (set as destination) and of course showing the sec status/sovereignty (there is a popup map but it is very confusing and a simple map with just the adjacents/2nd adj should be good enough for someone to navigate through friendly and unfriendly space)editoverview modification=====================[faction flag] - this tells what faction this character works for (amarr, caldari, minmatar, gallente, etc) good for detecting potential spys and enemies/friends[corp/alliance abbr] - should be infront of name to quickly sort enemies against allies[player name] - already implemented[ship action] - targeting, attacking, destroyed, scanning, repairing previously implemented [ship type] - already implemented, name of ship type[ship class] - helps players tell what they are facing, frigate/elite frigate, cruiser/elite cruiser, battlecruiser/elite, battleship, carrier, capital etcallows players to sort their targets into weak vs strong"
"two things:1) the ability to offset your ship to the left or right on the screen was a nice addition, being able to offset it vertically would be nice as well.2) an option to put a small white triangular bracket around my ship where the triangle would indicate which direction i'm going would do wonders for placing my ship and the direction it's going on screen while zoomed out.oh and bring back the new neocom on the bottom of the screen idea."
"supported, no reason not to have these."
"supported. a fleshing out of drone rigs wouldn't hurt, either."
"this is the reason i stopped flying gallente boats (except for their droneboats) all their turret based ships just utterly suck. i made a quik comparison between my mael and a megathron in eft for 2 ratting bs with all skills at 5, both have similar tanks against rats and and are cap stable. a mael get 140 dps more and almost 30k more falloff. the only gallente ship that is able to even get close to a mael with the same tank is a kronos. in short hybrids needs a boost really badly"
"actually this is not true, post about this issues are even older:linkage"
"^ locked thread?"
"absolutely!"
"ah, that was you. i remember the conversation, something like \"why is it that ever frig except for the rifter sucks? they're ****ing horrible, do something!!!\" supporting the proposal of removing or at least toning down the tier concept."
"1.0"
"yes, gallente need a buff and hybrids too.increasing the efectivness of gallente ew-ships is a nice start but without some hardwired minimum range (eg no dampening a target below 10km locking range) they would soon be considere op again.armor rigs - well amarr and to some extend minmatar also use them, you really wanna see their ships buffed too?i would rather want to see some general nerf to buffer tanks and thereby makeing activ tanking more favorable -> gallente rep bonus getting more usefull.speed buff? really?? no thanks, theres enough kiting going on already. give gallente some bonus to counter the speed of kiters. web range/strength bonus or warp scrambler range bonus for example. no mwd on target would give the speed advantage back to gallente inside the extra range.i fully agree on the need for more pg or lower hybrid fitting requirements and a bit more cap wouldnt hurt either."
"yup. moar speed, no armour rig speed gimp.+ hybrids."
"how to prioritize? easiest first so you can fit in the most?what i would like to see is something a bit less modest, npcs doing something meaningful. are we really to believe that the occasional merchant ship is the only non-capsuleer out there using space? why not have them going into low/null and wh space? how about an npc delivery service or rule-based financial institutions? why not extend the economy to npc corps? how about a share marketplace? what about ipos to raise capital for a corp? hostile takeovers? hiring npc goons?"
"bff really needs to set up a public request tracker, where suggestions can be posted and individually ranked and commented by users. there is plenty of software out there that could be used for this, and no need to tie it to eve accounts."
"another mmo did that and people complained because it was \"another thing to register for\"."
"improving the process... we can't affect the work-hours or priorities that team bff has, so the only thing to improve is getting our gripes to them. can't expect akitat to always be around to compile or compress our whines/posts, so the forums are probably not all that useful to them.suggestions:- have the forum moderators submit lists of what they see as the most recurring gripes or issues within the sub-forums they monitor.- we can submit only two things via forms: bugs and petitions. how about a simplified version of this form for a suggestion box, complaint box, etc. it's got category sorting, which is a huge feature.- if they're looking at what annoys us, they might as well analyze trends and do root-cause analysis too, so they can fix the root and get most bang for buck like they want. maybe hire a psychologist to keep their economist company.finally, a comment: we're subscribing to eve, so it's a service (as opposed to a shelf product). and because of that, they need to re-evaluate their idea that only new features (new products) bring in customers; increasing sales is important for a product, but it's retention and customer satisfaction that are important for services. ccp is like a cable-tv provider with outages and distortions in their basic channel lineup, prioritizing increased revenue via more pay-per-view channels and voip phones. yeah"
"the icon that you use to adjust the location of where your targets appear needs to be made brighter. as it is now, the icon is super faint, so people who want to move where their targets appear often have trouble finding it."
"then they don't need to make improvement suggestions, and i find it hard to believe they would have the wherewithal to even form a proper improvement suggestion.also many trackers don't actually require registration to make anonymous suggestions."
"please please please consider upgrading missile graphics, not just turret graphics!missile graphic proposalnote that the turret upgrade video is linked in second post of proposal, in case you guys missed that at fanfest 2011. can we get ccp to show any work on missile graphics?"
"tiers systemships/weapons balanceaggression cd's and systemself destruction cd programmable and non stoppable. neutral reppinglow sec improvementcapitals in high sec under very strict rules/conditions (unable any attack capabilities)capitals able to dock with high fees cost p/day, un-docking/docking huge time and tank/attack capabilities reduced to 0 in this time (station games over) moon mining"
"hello.one simple request, can we make the \"jump clone\" mechanic go all the \"leave ship/stop training/jump/restart training in one click\"?this would be a \"sister project\" to the one that is making it so you don't have to stop training to insert implants.also, this is a big issue for me (well the only issue really, other then santum nerf), eve is killing my love of the game with it s 2000 paper cuts.if i were king of ccp for a day, i would close development on incara (cause i don't care about it 1 bit), and move that whole team to bff. bff needs to be 3 times bigger then it is."
"csm needs to give bff a big round of applause when they see them because its the team at ccp making the game better."
"re-balance gallente ships so they are somewhat useful in fleets again. give interceptors a bit of a boost by making them the only ships whose mwds aren't shut off by web scrams."
"before the nerf i had 2 carrier pilots that i used to do sanctums and havens with. on a good day i could bring in 20-25mil (every 20 mins) on both chars at same time.not that i would run anomalies all day, the most i earned in a day (and only did this once) was 600mil during 6-8 hoursafter the nerf, there was too much competition, and lack of good sites worth running, so i sold my one character. (and canceled the account)we are lucky in test because we actually have a few systems with decent number of higher end anomalies, it's still possible for us to do sanctums and havens, but after the nerf i have found myself ratting alot less...now i only feel like running maybe 2-3 havens before doing something els, because i hate doing the chemical haven, and there is only 1 sanctum...as an alliance, we basicly became forced to engage the npc space right next to us, so we can begin to do lvl 4 missions while still remaining in 0.0"
"the increased population pressure due to alliance members moving from nerfed systems, and the increased risk of afk cloaking in the few remaining decent systems have made anomalies less than optimal for me. log on for some quick solo isk making - more than 20 in local? my anomaly running ships are docked and two cyno alts have been moved to empire npc corps where they are skilling for level fours and the ubiquitous drake/tengu."
"i espesially love the guy questioning the assumption that the change was bad, was told to provide 'numbers' to show it wasn't bad. they're basically working on the assumption that all 0.0 must provide proper income through anomalies.'fields and farms' can go screw themselves, we also need 'deserts and wastelands'.how did the change affect my income? not at all. how would it affect my income if i was still running around in immensea? not at all.the farms and fields make you guys lazy and completely blind to treasure hunts in deserts and wastelands, which is infinitely better gameplay and a much better target to aim for improvement."
"i have always been against pvp in a roleplay sense so when my alliances space was made worthless, i had 1 option: high sec lvl4s. i refuse to fight for better space so i think ccp should either boost 0.0 space so we can all make good isk or otherwise boost high sec missions so i can make the same isk as i did before but in high sec. thanks"
"do you actually get what we mean by farms & fields, i mean do you understand what the whole picture entails, etc?"
"i've played civ, and there you had places that no matter how much irrigation, farming, and tech you invested in still the results would be sub-par.those are deserts.sounds like you want everything to be nice fields that you can turn into farms."
"when you say 'we', are you saying every member of the csm, the entire eve community or what?"
"\"every country has the government it deserves.\" joseph marie de maistre i guess it applies to the eve community as well.we get it already. nc and friends (csm 6) should be able to dictate terms to the rest of null sec and the anom nerf erodes at their ability to build a zillion gajillion member alliance. it's unfortunate that you're using your csm status as a passive agressive means of forwarding the nc agenda, but i guess it's to be expected."
"to be quite honest,i haven't really noticed that much of a change to the isk income. i miss running my havens & sanctums.if you were hoping more complex's would spawn, you were wrong. in the 2 months i've been down here, i've gotten 2 complex's. i've gotten 3 dominiation spawns, but no loot worth while to speak of. oh escalations too. i made 100m off my escalation. that blows.overall, nothings really changed. however, if you truely wanted to screw with isk, why not mess with moon mining? limit how many moon miners per corporation or i.e. alliance. train a skill to be able to take over more moons. make 1 moon miner per moon. just a few ideas..."
"thank you for the opportunity to comment. a wise man once told me \"if it isnt broken dont fix it\". you may not have heard this saying before.the main concern i have with the removal of sanctums and havens, is the effect on our corp. newer memebers are now struggling to make sufficient isk to make improvements in ships and equipment. most good gear is very expensive and previous goals and aspirations have been shattered. the next point , i make is that some players (me included) just like to chat and run missions and such. now we just chat and grizzle. some people do not want to pvp or mine. my corp stated it would give me more time to find my lost dronesyou would make me a happy chappie to return to the status quo."
"can't even cancel my subscription without bugs error: object reference not set to an instance of an object."
"i live primarily in detorid.before the patch came through i made about 80-100 million ever 3 hours, and it was sufficiently for me. i didn't enjoy the anomalies, but what i did enjoy was that i was able to do the anomalies with my friend. my friend and i would go to haven to haven or sanctum to sanctum for 3 hours and rack in the isk that i previously stated.after the patch was set in our system has a forsaken hub as it's best, and i found myself not ratting as much...and most days not at all. recently i get on eve, update skills and pi, and swing my ship around in the pos. while it may seem like i am whining, i am now making closer to 10-20 mill isk an hour.i am in the current process of shipping to high-sec and to continue on lvl 3 and lvl 4 missions. i do wish to stay in null-sec but the game will stagnate for me if i continue to stay and not gain isk."
"subscription successfully cancelledclick here to continuefinaly..."
"subscription status: cancelledwill be suspended 4/25/2011total number of payments: 35"
"can i haz your stuff?"
"can i have your stuffs?"
"in the past, sweeping nerfs to this game have netted results far removed from the goals intended. this is because no-one including the games owners can possibly foresee the ongoing ripple effects of changes to the rules in a sandbox environment. the stated intention in part is to make null sec more accesible to smaller alliances. i do not see this happening in the future, certainly no evidence of that happening as of today.i am a member of a small alliance and that is something i now consider a misfortune. one of the corps within our alliance has already defected to the nc. more will follow. the shame of this is i have enjoyed my time in null sec, especially learning to pvp whilst having the income to support it, but i have already moved my mining characters to high sec due to constant red activity, i am merely waiting for my corp to move to high sec before i move my remaining two characters out as well. i do not believe this change was done to benefit small alliances, nor do i believe it was done to increase pvp. as a reflection of the real world, eve is an outstanding success, we see the rich getting richer and taking over the political reins. as an escape from reality, it is therefore for those same reasons increasingly an overwhelming failure.i trust this falls within the editorial policy of this thread."
"simple summary for the dribblers:this isn't an nc thing, it's a simple case of low risk having high reward, and high risk having low reward. high sec, for the average ratter, is better money than null sec. this should just not be the case.if ccp's as worried about inflation as they are, it seems braindead-simple to replace nullsec bounties in full or in part with lp earned from completing anoms. either that or buff the hell out of the plex spawn/drop rate, because even doing those isn't very good or reliable isk per hour, and that's if you have excellent truesec and upgrades.i went through all of chimera constellation after dt and scanned down all the systems in it, and all i found were drone plexes (lol), mag sites, and radar sites. and that's in a constellation that has 5 upgraded systems."
"that would be good if the only target was isk faucets... it wasn't.null-sec had become a boring monotone field, and that is now changed."
"note sure how much of this is relevant to this topic. yes, i know this is a bit lengthy as well.well, the changes have altered what my corp and alliance mates and i are doing in null-sec.for me, i make approx. 2-4 mil a tick less since the nerf.so far, we have have a number of people of corp and alliance say \"screw this\" and left corp and moved to high-sec. another group has left null-sec.the whole \"nerfing\" of null-sec definately has made carriers ratting havens and sanctums obsolete. you can use a mach, domi, abadons, etc; and do hubs and such faster than what ya could in a carrier.another aspect of the whole nerf, is people won't upgrade systems as much. leaving more money in corps and alliances. or if people still upgrade systems, they won't be able to as much because of a lack of isk.as for the whole concept of \"will make people fight more for better systems\"; is an utter joke. it will jsut allow the high end alliances charge more for mediocre systems. they will still keep the top systems for themselves.there is plenty of ways to balance out pve, pvp, high-sec, low-sec, null-sec, isk, moons, etc. to say ccp is not biased in their desicions, i and about 99% of the people out there would highly disagree with that.as for the concept of \"it will make it so small corps easier access to null-sec\". someone must have been smoking some funny stuff, to think that up. let's look at that reolistically. small corps have few people, and the ammount of plexes they can do per hour is small. thus low amounts of bounties, and small amounts of taxes for their corp. thus they can't afford what the big alliances would charge for \"rent\". that being the case, why would they come to null-sec to begin with?i do beleive that these nerfs are going to cause people to leave the game and play something else. it's not like there isn't 100's of other games to play.some simple possible \"solution\" to fix the nerf is this:1)make all null-sec back to a 0.0 rating.2) create a constellation ihub (what upgrades installed there would affect all the systems in that constellation.3)then make the sites based on the ihub upgrades of what is installed or not installed. (with the current system, makes the ihub a less functional item in the game)4)then create differant upgrades that would create (example) drones or blood raiders plexes in the system; even if it isn't a drone region or blood raider area. also, you could have upgrades that boosts pvp op boosts.5) make those ihub upgrades so you can remove them and not be destroyed. but only a set number and or types can be installed at a time. the effects of installed upgrades go in to effect after dt. when the eventual no-dt comes in effect, would be 1 hour after it is installed (or some set time period)6) give accurate details on what an ihub upgrade does. (not the current \"this upgrade increases stuff in your system\"). example \"this upgrase increases chances of drone plexes spawning by 7%\"with these solutions, would create multiple positive effects.1) makes the ihub a major functional aspect of any system.2) makes an amarr pilot in angel space more prosperous or effective, or similar things3) makes corps and alliances \"think\" strategically on what or how to upgrade systems.4) makes the constalttion ihub upgrades a tactical item in the game.5) it gives ceos and directors better details on what they can/want/need for upgrades and such.6) increases mining sites or combat sites or pvp boosts; based on the corp and or alliance's needs"
"right, before this, nullsec had a perfectly homogenous distribution of moons~seriously if you believe that anoms that the average grunt runs is any part of an alliance's decision to invade a given region you are deluded"
"of course the average grunt hasn't matter, we've had homogenous anomaly distribution for over a year. but in the times before that i do have vivid recollection of alliances invading our space for some good tru-sec.however i'm getting some mixed messages here from the pro-anomaly crowd; on one hand it won't change alliances at all since they got moon goo, on the other it will ruin alliances cause the members can't get isk.basically what i find rather confusing regarding that position is, if alliances are willing to fight for moon goo why would they not be willing to fight for good tru-sec? no alliance i have ever been in has ever considered grunt income a thing to ignore.actually grunt income has always been one of the most important considerations, to the point that they tell people to take breaks during wars to rat some isk. why are alliances / corps leaving space now if grunt income isn't important?"
"i seem to remember ccp being disappointed with the slow take up of t3 cruisers, and only more recently becoming happy with the number in game. i'd like to see a graph showing the number of t3s in game vs the number of systems with pda 5s installed. can you ask ccp's stats dept. for that?"
"here's the thing, alliances aren't moving at all. regions aren't changing hands because of this and i doubt they will, because as good as the truesec in a region may be, it still isn't really that good. even -1.0 systems don't have reliable sanctums, and when you factor in that they're gonna be full 23/7 and the fact that they can literally be shut down by parking a cyno buzzard in the good systems, it's hardly an incentive.no, alliances aren't switching regions, alliancemembers are just going from nullsec to highsec.of course homogenous space isn't good, but what they had before was better than this, because even the best truesec 0.0 is still worse than highsec for making money. it's just ccp's own special brand of shortsighted stupidity."
"i think the changes have been awesome. it should be difficult and dangerous to live in 0.0. as another mentioned the risks are high as are the rewards. even with out sanctums there is plenty reward in 0.0 and tons of reasons to live out there. people should be ratting in belts where there is danger of being scanned and the like. its 0.0 not empire. the changes have been great, keep up the good work!"
"a cyno buzzard isn't going to cyno anything into a cyno-jammed system... and heavens are still good for blitzing while waiting for the sanctum.a new equilibrium has yet to be found, same as with dominion it will take months for the effects to play out. and considering the campaign by many of the new csm members it is not entirely unreasonable to think they're holding out hoping for a change that will restore their systems.so all those anomaly runners ditching their 80m isk/h capital ships to run l4's aren't going to be risking their income any more during wars. actually i have a hard time imagining any significant number making more than 3-40m isk/h doing l4's. in any case only time will tell how this change really affects 0.0, and currently it is too early to say anything for certain just as with dominion."
"people in my corp are reporting over 100m an hour in a solo tengu blitzing l4s for 5-run bpcs.if you remember longer than 6 months ago, you might recall that everyone who had half a clue how the game works predicted that dominion would result in huge blobs of scaps being the driving force behind nullsec warfare and that whoever dogpiles more bodies into a contested system before the node crashes wins the fight.i'll give you one guess as to what happened."
"the greatest satisfaction i get from all these changes to null sec is the knowledge that they will almost certainly blow up in the faces of those who brought them about. history tells us that when greedy people discomfort the majority for their own gain, it inevitably ends up going awry. they certainly end up with the majority looking for a chance to give them a swift kick to the wedding tackle. i cannot wait for the inevitable that is sure to follow....."
"they should have been there all along, then. a carrier running sanctums pulls, on average, 25mil per bounty cycle (~20-25 minutes). that's 75mil per hour in the best non-hidden type of anomaly in nullsec. i think your numbers are highly exaggerated, but i digress. if your people can make that kind of money in high sec, they should have been there a long time ago."
"its not a bad change at all...thank god is what i say. now you cant fleece your renters for billions! you nullsec alliances have got it super easy after dominion, stop crying and actually work for your space!!"
"after having gimped so many systems, my main staple of income wasn't so much the anomalies but the salvage and rig production from it, fighting for choice anoms in the better systems that are now crowded just isn't the option, my enjoyment of eve comes from destroying the site and then salvaging not just the salvaging. eve for me isn't just about 1 facet in the game its about mixing it up with combat, and industry combined.with over inflated lower sec system now being crowded for the choice anoms. ccp's idea to spread people through null sec has failed its just pushed people into the choice -1 true sec systems and left normal 0.0 a barren wasteland as no-one wants it."
"keep up this kind of infantile behavior, going directly against the rules of the thread and i will ask the board moderators to give you a forced vacation from the forums. stay on topic, stop mud-slinging."
"what exactly is the point of this thread? of course people who are adversely affected by the nerf are going to be unhappy - that's kind of what nerfs do. individual/anecdotal data is useless for judging the success of changes aimed at macro-level phenomena and would (i'd hope) be dismissed out of hand by anyone in a position to make changes.and phrasing your op in such a way as to automatically exclude anyone who doesn't share your opinion and then throwing tantrums when people go ahead and express their disapproval anyway is just sad."
"lol!!!not only is this pole of yours going to completely exaggerated depending on if its pvpers or null bears but it is insanely too early to see the results of this change. trolling and discussion of moderation changed as per the forum rules. steviesg"
"no."
"its getting quite annoying that you can't roam around looking for a target in 0.0 much anymore or is that -0.1 to -0.9 i'm confuse already.the 0.0 nerf should be review because its going to cost ccp, customers in the long run, even that they got dust on the roll atm.eve online has been a game base on players for a longtime now...my personal experience from eve online is that ccp team are quite good in their handling with the players and the csm's should do the same to look after the players of eve online"
"\"we request your feedback, unless its positive, in which case we will ask for you to be banned from the forums.\""
"i think you need to climb down off your high horse, afaik being a csm member doesn't entitle you to threaten other players with forum bans.your opinion stated as fact rather ruins the point of this thread since you're stating that the only acceptable responses are those that validate your opinion."
"is the feedback being constructive so much to ask? there are people in the thread saying 'it's good that this happened, and here's why i think it was good~', and their feedback is helpful. they're not mud-flinging and no one is jumping down their throats. i'm asking you to please be constructive, thats all dudes."
"in answer to your question, one of ccp's stated desires was to destabilize the larger power blocks.good evidence of this tension has appeared on some of nc alliance forums where they have been complaining that they aren't being given access to the better truesec systems and as a result have less interest in fighting for the block as an entirety."
"so anyway, the feedback is about 50:50. some people are finding more creative ways to make isk, others are venturing back to hisec to do l4s, some people are happy with havens.it's my personal experience that mowing down havens isn't so bad, have you guys who can easily do havens tried to do them and see how you fancy them? there seems to be a reasonable amount of those knocking about after the change.i'm not sure if it will realistically significantly disrupt the bloc's ability to co-exist, that being said- i'm not sure how it will pan out in the long run. there may be a slow rolling tension that will eventually erupt into an all-out riot. i don't think i or anyone else can truthfully forecast the real impact this will have on alliance level interaction and when we do see those effects we'll probably source those opinions too."
"i'm all for some changes to null sec to make things more interesting.pre-nerf, you could mine rocks or mine npc's and more or less be self-sufficient with a little bit left over for comedy exploding on the side. post-nerf...it's not really possible. i knew people were angry about this nerf but i wasn't really prepared for how bad it actually is. the upshot is it's now more profitable in terms of how much my time is worth to just buy gtc's and sell plexes, because the adjusted $1.70 an hour upper limit on what i can rat out just isn't worth it. for ccp, that means less players on the cluster and more people buying gtc's... good for them.ultimately it smacks of a rather lazy fix on the part of ccp to avoid working on more pve content by trying to get inter-alliance conflicts to do their job of making the game interesting for them."
"it had to be done as it injected way too much isk into eve, what irks me most is that we haven't heard a peep about what else they are planning to make null worth ones time (if one is not a robotic sheep).csm needs to bang on some doors and get a dialogue going, it will be nda'ed but it is the only way to get any sort of influence on the final outcome.repeatedly making pro/con threads will merely result in ccp devs becoming scared of leaving their intra-net and push half baked solutions out that no one are happy with (lol-dominion ).then why has most european countries and the us in particular not seen massive protests and revolutions?people are sheep, give them some bright lights to dazzle them and they'll gladly stand by while you ransack their lives .. that is what history tells us"
"i moved back out to 0.0 space solely to experience the pvp, fleet engagements and sovereignty games that the big alliances are involved in. i had the understanding that i wasn't going to get rich (i don't rat in a carrier) and that when i lost ships i'd be able to set aside some time to run some havens or sanctums and build back up.it worked out great before the anomaly changes. if i needed something different, or had to replace a ship, i'd take a few hours, scan some anoms and run up some isk. then i'd be back into gangs and fleets, and back into having fun.now, the reward for running hubs is hardly worth the risk. i'm hesitant to take out pvp ships that would be hard to replace. i'm not willing to pay more money (plex) to keep combat ships around, or pick up an alt for mission running in empire.so, in short, i am not satisfied with it. i have a limited amount of time to play eve to begin with, and now more of that time will be eaten up with running lower grade anomalies to recoup losses or purchase new ships/modules. that means less time in fleets and gangs, less time doing what i moved out to 0.0 to do. if i wanted pve, i'd go back to empire and do it 'risk free.'"
"a lot of them have had mission running alts. highsec has been better money than nullsec for a long time.however, until the patch, sanctums were at least easy and reliable, despite being worse isk/hr than missions. now it's finally bad enough that it's worth the rigmarole of keeping an alt in highsec and selling lp items over staying in nullsec and making terrible money.as an aside, i gave up running sanctums ages ago, now i triple-box plexes. i can run any tier of plex for any race, and even then, working out the time it takes me to travel, scan, and run plexes, i'm not making more than 75m an hour, because nullsec is a desert as far as plexes are concerned."
"when the new sanctum system was introduced, i was extremely ~butt hurt~ as my old playing style of \"jump into system, spam d-scan on belts, find helpless ratter, pew-pew\" was essentially thrown out the window. i'm certainly glad that ccp has made running plexes less lucrative and brought people back into belts for ratting.however, i don't like the blanket nerf to the spawning of sites. the issue here, as far generating ludicrous amounts of isk with a fully upgraded system, is that site spawn and despawn (effectively) immediately after completion. instead of a nerf to the actual spawning of the sites, i think a better choice would have been a change to the mechanic of how fast the sites spawn in the system. the lower truesec systems should be spawning sites at a faster rate, thus keeping up the benefits of owning and developing space thats harder to access and more dangerous to live in. higher truesec systems should still maintain their ability to generate isk out of anomalies, but the respawn rate should be slower than the more coveted low truesec system and to get players to move to more dangerous environments for greater rewards."
"real numbers from someone who has done both lvl 4 missions and anoms while not focusing intently on the task like a machine.cn lvl 4 missions in a golem:i used to bring in about 20m in isk per hour and between 20-50m more in loot.anoms in a tengu:i would bring in about 30m isk per hour and another 10-30m isk in loot. however, from time to time, you get an escalation with the potential faction loot drop at the end. granted, this would take extra time to travel there and most of those drops were disappointing in the form of 20m isk random modules that few really want. the real difference between the two was that with lp you can see how distant the goal is for that awesomesauce faction something-or-other where as with the anoms, like a gambling-junky pulling the handle over and over, you expected that at any given time you would get an escalation with a good drop at the end.in reality, i don't think i made a whole lot more running anoms than i did running missions, but anoms definitely are more engaging.still think hauler spawn anoms are where it is at as far as a reasonable solution that no one will outright hate."
"i don't rat much so the direct effect to me is so far minimal, but what i am seeing, and hearing from a lot of people that i'm talking to, is that the new system is not working as advertised (even in good truesec systems, few high end sites are spawning)that combat plexes are few and far between regardless of upgradesthat there seem to be a lot of fire sales of t2 ships in the nullsec markets (one possible explanation is that people are selling up to leave for some reason)people are looking for new ways to make iskbasically this is making it harder for people who have trained up combat pilots (usually because they enjoy the combat side of eve) to make isk and making them drastically change their play. it could be that they will be forced to discover the joys of the other activities in eve (mining, manufacturing, research, trading), but i doubt this - if they enjoyed that kind of play they would be doing it already."
"infantile behavior? get over yourself. it's obvious that you're not used to being disagreed with, but your threat to ban me for doing so is infantile in itself. grow up whitetree. leave your dictates for your own forums. this is eve online.... deal with it!"
"leave gm white tree alone!!!"
"you seem to not understand the whole purpose of wars is to force players to *gasp* interact with each other, and not to allow them to simply hide under the skirt of concord like a bunch of scared children. so-called griefer corps should rightfully be able to continue wars indefinitely. this forces the aggrieved corp to *gasp* come up with counters. potential counters include hiring mercenaries, paying off the griefing corp, or *double gasp* manning up and fighting them, or simply pulling up stakes and moving on to a different corp. all are ways to deal with a wardec.or maybe we could just limit war time to certain zones and times, and require a +/- pvp flag before initiating pvp and change the name of eve from eve online to carebear-wow-loving-sissies online. what a terribad idea. the people initiating the wardec are real people. talk to them, reason with them, and if all that fails, then hire reputable mercenaries against them or man up and fight them yourselves.yes, let's allow only the elite who can afford to pay exorbitant amounts of isk to actually pvp in eve.the wardec costs shouldn't be a barrier to wardecs, the targets should. learn to quit being such a soft target and you won't get so many wardecs. learn to actually fight back and they'll quit messing with you altogether. in short, learn to play."
"i think the only thing they need to do is help newbie corporations out by giving a lot more information at the first war declaration that a corp suffers, including:- links to tutorials or the wikipedia about wars and what their options are- a list of vulnerable assets (poses for example) and suggestions about what to do to protect them- instructions on how to find out info about the wardec corp and its members, including setting them red and locator agents- reminders to insure ships and/or stockpile some war supplies within the 24 hrs they have- perhaps extending the 24 hrs to 48 hrs, but only for the first war declaration suffered, so newbies have more time to prepare- a cost analysis of what ships they could afford to fight in and for how long, perhaps based on the isk amounts in the corp wallet"
"i myself am a miner, and yes, that is pvp. eve is what it is because nowhere is truly safe. as with all wardecs, if you can't win, move. griefing is not 'killing non-combat ships' (considering a covetor can actually kill something). it might be griefing if the warring corp chases you through three different regions over the course of 3 months for no apparent reason. but then again...you'd have to petition on that one.i'd be ok with more expensive wardecs. i personally think wars ought to cost 10 million isk per week. much larger deters smaller corps from ever taking on larger, and potentially ill-organized corps that make lots of isk, but not skilled pilots. wars serve a purpose in eve - they actually are best used against miners and haulers. this is how you pvp in hisec (and avoid sec loss in low).+1 for higher price, but keep it reasonable for small-corp gangs to cause some havoc."
"this is bull... high cost war decs will protect new players from war being initiated against them aka griefing the newbies"
"i see a lot of words like \"griefing\" in this thread being thrown about. so are these \"griefer\" type corps / individuals getting the ban hammer? i mean you guys are reporting these \"griefer\" corps....right? if they are truly \"griefing\" you should be able to correct the action as per terms of agreement upon logging into the game...right?"
"this thread is amazing.finding out that molle told an ny times reporter that he planned to take over all of eve has made my freakin day"
"if you think your pet issue is not getting due attention i strongly encourage you to reach out and contact csm reps and tell them about your point of view. if you don't think i have the expertise and knowledge to represent your concerns then learn me on them. if you think i'm not gonna be able to tackle fw properly or raise concerns when new changes are proposed, then convo me and sit me down for an earful on what you've experienced and what you think needs work. i think you'll find we're all really approachable about this kind of stuff and want to learn as much as we can in areas we aren't as strong. one other thing, our persistent skype chat gives us a great opportunity for back and forth with csm members who have more specialized knowledge about things. information flow is happening really quickly which should make for a better informed set of reps."
"csm6 is truly an outrage and a failure of the system.goons cannot be trusted with the same voting privileges extended to ~real eve players~ and their votes must be discounted.i propose reducing goon votes to 3/5 of a real vote."
"i wasn't aware goons were black"
"you've never been on one of our fleet ops, then."
"i've got to agree..are you telling me my nc alt should be able to go from 93pi- in pure blind to g8ad- in cloud ring in 3jumps ? i dont think so.. thats only an example ofc..have u ever had your nc alt in tribute ?? stargates are a thing of the past my friend who needs to walk that road when u can get from 1 end of tribute to the other in 3 mins or less..so get something done because all tese sov holding hand holding kids dont like to risk there internet isk"
"i personally think you should make jb's an ihub installation. that puts it at a planet, away from pos protection. it allows a moderate force to incap it, and the ihub can be used for fuelage. a 2 link max/system, where the 2 beacons on the ihub were 15+km apart, and within 100km of the ihub. jb's have a very valuable tactical advantage that should stay. the ability of the local populace to trap an enemy by getting behind them with jb's is pretty awesome!! they just need to be a little more vulnerable!"
"people that *need* them are beyond help already.bye jump bridges"
"not supported"
"good suggestions but you don't go far enough. to promote pvp, add risk to 0.0, make logistics logistics we need to apply this to corps and alliances living in invulnerable npc stations too. the farmers need to be able to besiege the brigands preying on them, on the few days per year they can organize themselves. make the hordes at the gate brandishing torches and pitchforks a real inconvenience. to do so we need to allow the services (repair, market, contracts, loyalty store, fitting, cloning, factories) on the previously invulnerable npc stations to be disabled - obviously self repairing over time - say a week - and allow residents with sufficiently high standing to the pirate faction owning the station to assist with triage carriers and logistics. we'll adapt to any change and are sure you too will adapt to change that brings more challenge to the game.more than happy to accept any reasonable limit on jump bridge networks .. which range strikes you as suitable for empire to northern branch .. three is obviously too few and we would totally agree with you there and are further pleased to see you have fully researched this proposal and have a firm grasp on game mechanics .. lets double it and call it six to northern branch .. eight to the far north of the drone regions .. eight to the furthest south east. also, can we suggest further nerfing jump bridges by only allowing them in systems with a fully upgraded tier 3 gallente station (of course allowing more than one station per system is a necessary prerequisite). to balance this change, we would propose allowing the conquest of npc null-sec systems where the npc faction does not have an existing station in the same constelation - limiting guristas to individual constallations just like sisters of eve, mordus legion, and others. balance in all things makes this game interesting, and change makes for interesting times."
"nothing to add to this. just agreeing with mynas."
"are you some kind of dummy or something? jump bridges don't confer tactical or logistical advantages that are useful for force projection or rapidly assembling and moving giant blobs, that's some kind of dumb ~elite pvp~ meme that has no bearing on how they're used in reality and furthermore..."
"i think everyone missed the point: to see if in the similated world, such as eve, peace can be made for 24 hours by mutual agreement of thousands of players. we already see that \"dogs of war\" would die if they don't kill someone for 24 hours. i wonder how many of those who will survive without it?i can."
"conflict drives this game, but so does cooperation. this game would die just as quickly, if not faster, if cooperation between people ceased. it's my experience that it is the cooperative aspects of games like this that make them so successful. yes, eve is a \"sandbox\" game where piracy, greed, backstabbing, destruction, and exploitation are encouraged - but that's because there is an understanding that this is a game. if you ask players how they feel about pirates, suicide gankers, and thieves in-game there would certainly be some animosity expressed, but for the most part they would probably tell you, and understand, that it is part of the game (maybe it's the very reason they choose this game over others). if you ask a random person on the street how they feel about real life murders, thieves, suicide bombers, rapists, and the exploitation of those who cannot defend themselves you will get a much different answer. it's true that these horrendous things are a reality of life, of living in the real world, but how many people would say that they consider them acceptable behavior? do you really think that the majority of people in the world would see these things as acceptable rather than as monstrous acts of inhumanity which could only really be done by the desperate, empathetically challenged, or insane? if we (the people of the real world) did not feel that way then we wouldn't have prisons, or criminals, or even laws in place to deter and protect the majority of populations world wide.the \"sentiments behind this post\", which are the desire for global peace (as well as unity and equality), would help this game more than hinder it. think about how many more players there would be in eve if the entire global population had access to it. by calling them dumb you're calling the idea of peace and cooperation dumb. imagine if the whole world had access to the internet, were capable of affording to spend a few hours a week playing a video game, and had the choice to direct their destructive tendencies and feelings into a virtual world rather than the real one. i don't know about you, but i'd rather my friends (and the billions of people i don't know) lashed out in a virtual world than in the real one. if i owned one, i would rather my megathron federate issue were blown up to 'send a message' in lieu of a building, a hotel, or a school full of children.there also seems to be some continued confusion about what i'm asking for. i'm not calling for server wide, unfounded, and indefinite peace between all players, corporations, and alliances. i was just wondering if anyone else out there thought it might be amazing and progressive if an entire gaming community, who essentially thrive on war, banded together and agreed to take their fingers off the triggers to send a message to the rest of the real world.24 hours. no more, no less."
"blitskin - thank you for seeing the message. the world needs more people like you.\"i don't think it would have any meaning if it were dev enforced.\"- i don't either. it would only have true meaning if the community agreed. but at the same time, the devs are a part of the community, so we would need their support as well. and having their support would make this topic much more visible to a greater population of the community."
"peace? peace!i hate the word.as i hate hell, all montagues, and thee."
"greed. greed is why peace cannot exist. those with influence over others will wield it to satiate their greed. this is why war never changes."
"\"last week, eve online made an astounding global message. an entire 24 hours of players participating in a peace rally. over a 1/4 million players ceased fire upon each other to demonstrate to the world that we can live in peace if we try. statistics provided to our reporters by ccp confirmed this information.\"source: broadcast report on npr, 3:10am. estimated listening audience: 538side thought... how many people play farmville everyday without fighting?"
"it is an excellent point, what is the better way to make on the real life news if not this? i think it is a great way to get attention and bring more players to the game.i was playing other online games for years and only last year found eve. i would play eve since the begginning if i would knew about it."
"amen\"no one in the world desires peace more than a soldier at war\" one of my favorite quotes, i can't remember who said it. speaking as a soldier in a combat zone i know that feeling all to well.you're arguements are well thought out but based on false assumptions, in the end we as humans are animals. human children exhibit the same characteristics as puppies and kittens, that is not just by chance. to attain the peace that you want you need to eliminate the drive to better yourself in all humans around the world. because there is always a winner and a loser, conflict/competition of all people would have to be stopped, and the status quo enforced rigorously.i don't know about you, but that is a world i don't want to live in, i'd rather go to war than promote a world where nothing changes.you seem the philosophical type, read into bhuddist and taoists texts, they both promote peace, but they also understand that a balance must occur. they accept war but do not promote it, i suggest you do the same.gerrick palivorn"
"lol.... and the follow up: \"eve online's 24 hour peace rally was undermined yesterday as a coalition of x, y, and z alliances moved significant invasion forces under the cover of a universe-wide ceasefire. when the ceasefire ended, the epic clash of forces promised to be the most destructive battle in the history of eve... (had the node not crashed)!\""
"lol... i was hoping someone would pick up the obvious follow-up. blitskin - i think you missed the subtle point that it wouldn't even be newsworthy (*cough*npr*cough*)"
"un nerf 0.0!! or nerf highsec"
"change it back already ffs"
"nerf it moar"
"nerf high-sec! i thought lev 4's were supposed to move to low-sec. what happened with that?(that should shut those empire carebears up, and bring balance to the \"force\") ... whatever this game is getting ghey. world of tanks is out of beta!"
"keep it. 0.0 is not supposed to be some huge isk making factory with no feel of being killed. go rat in the belts. you can still make 40 mil/hour easily... you just have to pay attention. thats how it is supposed to be. the dynamic was ruined with so many people doing sanctums."
"do not un nerf it ever! stop whining cos you cant fleece your renters for billions a month for crappy systems..."
"unnerf it"
"what we want is pretty basic: we want to make fighter-bomber wielding supercapital ships more reliant on their support fleet and less of a direct <U+FFFD>ber deathbringer.how to do it?well, we have an idea, and before you go ballistic remember that this is an idea and were sure ccp will nerf it:change the way fighter-bombers work, and have it so that you can still launch all the fighter-bombers you want (within limits of your ship/skills) but you can only directly control 5 of them at a time. that means that a supercarrier can launch 5 fighter-bombers, assign them to a gang mate, launch 5 more, assign them to another gang mate etc. etc.this means you will not be able to launch 20 fighter-bombers from a supercarrier and send them all to incinerate a thanatos in .2 seconds. it does however mean that you can assign 5 fighter-bombers to each of your lil friends in the fleet and send them forth to be the messengers of your burning fury.remember, were not proposing messing with the final total amount of fighter-bombers you can launch and delegate, just the amount you can control and delegate at a time. you can of course also launch 5 fighter-bombers and make them attack a target of your own choice, if it pleases you.but wait! theres more!not only do we propsoe limiting the amount of fighter-bombers you can launch, but also the amount of drones! yes, we want to limit carriers and supercarrier just like other ships, i.e. they should only be able to field 5 regular drones at any given time.seriously, the reason we are proposing something like this is that we feel that supercapital ships are being used way too much as better-than-everything-at-everything ships, when we in fact think that they should be used more as the-ships-that-have-totally-insane-tanks-but-provide-others-with-additional-firepower ships. did that make sense? probably not, but anyway, we hope you get the gist of the direction we want to move them in and the way we see that happening.remember that this is still just an proposal and we want your feedback on this, so please, post constructively and you just might make a difference in the (eve) universe."
"this sounds curiously familiar from somewhere...."
"i would rather have the dreads buffed into supercap killers imho your solution sounds a bit too complicated for easy realization."
"zuluzulu"
"lol, and what was the reason these changes did not get implemented on carriers? personally, the two things that need to happen to sc's: 1.) limit the damage they can deliver to structures. if sc's cant declaw pos's and shred ihubs, stations, and tcu's, dreads become the workhorse of nullsec again. reduce fighter damage output by 20%, and make it so fighterbombers can't hit structures. 2.) increase their vulnerability to subcaps. a fleet of 30 dreadnaughts should crap their pants at a 10 man sc drop, a 100 man bs fleet should be able to cope, and a 100 person ahac gang should laugh as they declaw the sc's without losing a ship. to do this, slow down and increase the sigs of fighters and fighterbombers to make them susceptible to bs weapons and sb bombs. then split the capital and subcap drone bays so they can't carrier infinite amounts of drones.... unfortunately, if you remove their sub-fighter drone bays on all carriers/scs, people will quit ratting with them.... we don't want that!!!!!"
"i like the idea of the normal dronesbut having to assign the fighter bombers to fleetmembers is not really a good idea cause what happens if that fleetmember gets blown up ?"
"good idea regarding assigning bombers, bad idea nerfing fighters and below.dreads still need a buff but this is a nice outside-the-box idea to start with"
"zuluzuludid anyone bother to look at the date of that devblog ???they knew there was a problem in 2007 yet they didn't change anything :(edit: damn alt setting on the forum :("
"the same thing that happens now.. the fighters go back to the sc to await further instructions. if there are more subcaps out there, the sc can reassign those fighters to another."
"ccp greyscale has made it clear that nullsec is currently up for several passes of \"refinement\" aimed at driving conflict (and presumably favoring newer alliances slightly over older, larger ones). following is my four step proposal for a system that would do just that:1) un-nerf nullsec anomalies. period. pilots need ships to drive conflict, risk vs. reward, et al. the rest of this plan is predicated on a return of nullsec to previous states.2) levy an asymptotically scalar monthly fee against corporate entities based on the total number of pilots that are set blue to them, even those inherited by alliance settings. this would create a vast isk sink, with the largest entities paying the most into the system. over time, this should make the maintenance of uberblobs utterly impossible, forcing alliances to choose smaller groups of allies for their coalitions. smaller coalitions mean more neutrals. more neutrals mean more targets. more targets with smaller blobs makes eve online a healthier game.3) implement a way to produce moongoo from planetary interaction and remove it from all pos moons. make the process of producing each type of moongoo sufficiently complex as to exceed that of producing robotics. remove pos mining equipment from the game and replace it with modules which mine raw pos fuels such as liquid ozone and strontium clatherates (yes, strontium clatherates). storing our ships in nullsec shouldn't be quite such a chore, if you want us to use them for conflict. making some of the fuel accessible directly by the pos itself lowers the isk sink bar for small corporations and alliances to access nullsec.4) limit jump drives and jump bridges to being able to take a ship only to any system a gate in the system of origin could take it to, but reduce the cost of each jump significantly. let's be honest, this is how it always should have been. yes, you can try to avoid the incidental gates and camps to wage your war. no, you can't get there in thirty seconds.i hope folks can see that these changes would go a long way toward \"fixing\" the current conundrum that is nullsec. and i suspect the changes would be a lot more fun than the current (hosed) situation there."
"almost stopped reading expecting another \"oh noes, mah wallet!\" topic .. 1) sanctums were added as an extra income, there was more conflict prior to them being introduced so the argument falls flat. goes without saying that if everywhere is the same there is no incentive to aggressive seek greener pastures for the bot-herd and conflict is for the 'lulz' only .. look back 2-3 years and compare the type of conflicts with what has happened since dominion .. they are gone, good riddance!2) penalizing people for banding together in an mmo, hmmm. would certainly make eve the first to do such a thing .... the isk sink you are looking for is in the sovereignty maintenance system, make it scale horribly fast after the first few systems/constellations and you end up with us type confederations/alliances just with the added juice from e-peen which will promote even more war.3) no comment other than, hell yes. static income should not be a part of a game where income actually matters. alternatively the operations should be made extremely vulnerable to attack so that a perpetual guard/patrol has to be in place to protect it.4) will happen in some form, but not before a null-industrial revamp is ready i think. a lot of (or even most) people think the jita reliance is a little over the top so is just a matter of time.will be quite interesting to see what the \"protect the status quo\" csm of this term does. ccp appears determined to try to fix null so question is if they will try to help shape it into something useful/acceptable or hold their collective breaths in defiance."
"ditch sanctums.add hauler spawn anoms."
"sovereignty doesn't matter if you've got the cap fleet to say the space is yours and unlimited blues in your coalition to back those claims up. big alliances won't pay the sov bills for vast space, they'll just hire more renters and claim \"imminent domain\".also, eve has always been the first mmo to penalize people for working together. see cspa charges, npc corps' original lack of taxes, npc corps being immune to war while player corps aren't, capitalism...the asymptotic fees would be small and manageable at the lowest levels, but would become huge and unwieldy at the numbers that tend to produce uberblobs."
"don't unnerf. it you guys don't have enough good ratting space maybe you can go take a-5??? stop crying and put the work in for your space (i heard you all got beat down by the pl feeder corp)."
"\"stop crying,\" is all you've got to contribute?1) i don't and never have relied on anomalies for income. many other vocal players apparently do and/or did.2) ccp promised us, their clients, that with dominion all space would be \"worth taking.\" we were given details as to how the system worked, we adapted to it, investing countless hours and isk to do so, only to have our trust breached by a visibly arrogant dev who seems convinced the current solution is the only solution. they have done this kind of feature bait-and-switch before...and it's never been a particularly good marketing technique for them.3) people are leaving the game due to this change. we, as players, will probably never see real figures as to how many, but anecdotal evidence proving this seems to be abundant. the \"isk fountain\" people refer to probably wasn't enough to even fully accomodate the vacuum these subscription cancellations will leave in the market, especially if a suitable isk sink to incent players to change their behavior were implemented.4) i've presented a proposal that removes the most isk from the biggest botter and blobber alliances while creating a healthier atmosphere for conflict, and the best you have to say is, \"stop crying?\"how about this: \"start thinking.\""
"not true. you simply suggested a mechanics change that favors alliances and coalitions that are large enough and rl fiscally strong enough to use out-of-game assets to function.the nc would likely just set everyone in the coalition neut and set most everyone else red and continue to use all the out-of-game assets we have to organize and function like normal. no skin off our back. sucks to be the little alliances that use in-game mechanics though."
"a very good point. i hadn't considered using out-of-game assets (and solely out-of-game assets) for id purposes. still, it seems like this could be very unwieldy at large scales. what would happen, for instance, if you guys encountered a large neutral fleet instead of your predicted \"red\" enemies? can fc's and pilots all pull off this feat?"
"as we currently sit, it is highly abnormal to be shooting at neuts anyway, other than in small gang warfare. in small gang warfare, you usually know the names and ship types of everyone else in your fleet, so it is quite easy to identify who doesn't belong."
"remember, the sum of these changes (not solely fees for blues) are intended to increase the odds of precisely such alliances seeing new \"neutral\" fleets. that said, i'm still interested in whether or not it's possible for the alliance to function as stated if they're caught off-guard by a reasonably even \"neutral\" fleet."
"alliances/coalitions that can field reasonably sized fleets are known entities though. the only people impacted from such a change would be ratters who would have to check the player info on people who enter their system. coalitions wouldn't blink about getting rid of in-game mechanics if the costs for using them were noticeable and the benefits were really rather small."
"but mittens cannot ramble on impressing himself with his cunning linguistics in a mere 30 minutes."
"i for one will be passing up on the next episode of the mittani show.maybe when they introduce more characters into the plot and get better writers i will have another look."
"there doesn't need to be news to relate to have one. the q&a session is, as you say, valuable in its own right.i'd suggest doing both; one pre-summit, and one a few days to a week after the minutes are released.edit: any chance of rotating them across timezones? and/or allowing those of us who can't make it to email in questions ahead of time?"
"and nothing of importance was lost."
"if you like the nerf say so here. best change in a while. hopefully the blobbing will start to go down as things return closer to normal. null sec was becoming really quite un-fun."
"best change in a long time tbfh. keep it!"
"death to nullbears!!!"
"supported, too much easy money in old sanctums."
"why should ccp stop there, nerf mining sites as well, and moons. rate everything is going, soon will be supercap online. even i can fly a nyx, but i am happy with my thanatos. nerf away. ready for next chapter in carebear tears."
"nice one ccp. too much income and not enough slaughter in 0.0.now we only need something to efectively counter the hordes of supercaps."
"if the issue were supercaps price they could simply significantly increase the materials needed to build them.those who dispose of the necessary resources will still build supercaps in big numbers, the only difference will be that if you're not in the biggest alliances all you'll be able to do is count your losses.wait and see."
"given that certain statistics indicate that nullsec players who 'blitz' l4s for lp in tengus are making roughly equal isk to the isk they would have made simply running sanctums, how do you feel about risk-free isk being funneled from hisec to nullsec as a result of this change?"
"that needs to be hella nerfed too!"
"qft :p"
"high sec is everything but risk-free that could be true if:-players running faction pirate missions weren't crowlling in their billions (bp's faction stuff rewards/bountys)-players running sanctums couldn't run them faster than you can run one lvl4 in a faction bs dead space equipped, witch is not the case of every player spending some hours per week in game.-players running incursions sites in high sec have same risk than those running them in 0.0 (w8 they come clean them in high sec)at this difference: in 0.0 you can shoot any rock without problems, try to do the same in high sec ^^you can't just say lvl4's give the same income without knowing if it's someone running several accounts that does this all day vs someone spending a few hours per day/week.the statistics don't say that you are better in 0.0 running faction pirate missions knowing you'll maybe cross a red or something else once per week/month, but players doing this can and they do in several posts.i would really like to see those statistics in detail, by comparing players wallets/activity.i can't believe there are only some fc's and ceo's having the advantage of running those sanctums/heavens what ever, because this only means the issue is not the missions system."
"please come back when you know what you are talking about."
"please come back when you have something to say, until then don't waste you time trolling."
"supported. blitzing makes a paltry quantity of isk and a lot of lp, which is traded for other players' isk. if anything, it removes isk from the game economy via lp store costs, whereas dominion sanctums were a massive and unregulated isk fountain that injected huge quantities of raw isk into the economy. moreover, since the method relies on being able to convert lp at a high rate, just how sustainable do you think their income is going to be if people start doing it en masse? (hint: not at all)i'm also impressed that so many of these former sanctum junkies were able to acquire characters with the ultra-high faction standings necessary to blitz efficiently in the short period of time that's elapsed since the nerf. man, those guys work fast."
"i see where you are going with this. yes, i agree nothing past lvl 3 missions in low sec. i like your thinking!but in all honesty, what has been said above applies. 1. it isn't an isk fountain.2. you need to keep taking these missions, going back to the base more frequently, and it only applies really in npc 0.0 which isn't a considerable amount of 0.0.its all about risk vs reward. there needs to be risk if you are going to be rewarded in 0.0. this gives more experienced players a reason to play the game and lets all the wow gold farmers have their fun in empire. if they want to come down to 0.0 there are rewards to be had, but 0.0 should not be an isk farm with out any danger.you can work the belts for probably 40-50 mil/hour. if you are looking for more than that i don't really know what to say... that is already more than it should be anyway (too much money in game...)."
"topic became old hot after the first five thousand posts about the change.i want to know what else is being done to make null worth bothering with for the non-sheep part of the population.i want to know if they are going to bring heavy missile damage projection in-line with other medium armaments.i want to know what they plan to do about neutral rr and other unscoutable aspects of eve combat.i want to know when they are done playing space barbie and get back to working on eve proper.no support because saying slinging mud to the left is as bad as slinging it to the right."
"i still think they need to add hauler spawn anoms instead of the easy to bot bounty-centric anoms."
"hahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahaha."
"the majority of that income is from lp rather than isk which means even if your statistics are true, that income will rapidly decrease due to competition to try and sell the items that can be redeemed.this can be see if you look at in eanms which have already dropped by around 6-7m, while the tags have increased in cost resulting in the value of the lp dropping by almost 50% already."
"invalid argument, the csm was invalid before you said ****"
"i'm quite happy with mittins talking most of the time. rather you hate him or like him, he is a figure that people recognize almost instantly.people who want the other csm members to talk, i'm sure that can be arranged in following chats, for for this one let it go.as for professionalism, if being gay for each other and making **** jokes gets to job done and even gets talks with ccp to open up, go for it."
"mittani and other prominient goons have stated that their goal is destroy eve. see the original threadnaught. they have not been able to actually do it in game and this is the last place that they can try to destroy it. remember you get what you pay for. but tbh the goons of today are not the goons of 2007 so i am not quite ready to condemn mittens and co. but i feel that i may be proven correct in my assumption that they are still on that endeavor."
"literally controlling your game~"
"beg to differ.goons leader plays an ******** and also said himself he's one in real life."
"but then we wouldn't be able to read any crap from you anymore. unless you cheat and let your 4 year old nephew take the test for you. ( which i suspect will happen )"
"as much as i dislike the way the mittani and others campaigned for their csm slots i am certainly willing to sit back and give them a chance to prove themselves now the dust is settling and actual work is getting done.who knows, we may actually be pleasantly surprised, which would be nice"
"incarna needs to be optional to not have a severe effect on multi client stability. one of the best things about eve is that you can play several clients on a computer both in required player focus and computing resources. for many players (myself included), multiple clients is what makes eve entertaining.i would love to see walking in stations a loadable, optional environment with a ticker box like the \"load station environment\" one. this would allow to run multiple clients without wasting resources on stuff you won't be doing on more than one client at a time (unless you have multiple personalities).make it so."
"i absolutely agree. i'll be very unhappy if i'm forced to walk in stations when there's no practical reason to do so"
"agreed.i have no interest in cq."
"keep it up, i lolled hard...and what you say is true.just ridiculous, the way missions are set up.massmurderer online, anyone? =)"
"cripes some of you ***gots are the worst."
"what happened to the post of the long list of items the player base already voted on to be fixed from the last csm?"
"supporting. it has really gotten ridiculous how much time and :effort: that ccp is putting into incarna instead of refining existing content. i mean, don't get me wrong, i'm sure walking in stations will be cool and all that, but i'd rather never get that content and have functional fleet fights, improved ui, better balancing, and sov tweaks, not to mention actual stories for pve content, and fixing old ideas.ccp, by all means, finish incarna, but then i humbly ask that you spend a year fixing all the other stuff you've implemented and make the game work really well, and make it fun. you've had some ideas and content that you've implemented that sounded so freaking cool, and then it didn't work how you wanted, so you just left it do die and moved on. a perfect example of that behavior is faction warfare. as a concept, it's awesome as hell. as an actual feature, it's completely lacking support and gives no incentive or reason to do it at all. it wouldn't have taken that much more time to do it right, and figure out how to just make it worthwhile, but instead, you pushed forward. so please, fix the game. i want to be able to say that i like this game when my friends ask what i'm playing."
"capitol ships should have things like this. battleships even. but the game is not ballanvced though and is too big to even get into something like that. i like your idea though/"
"i agree"
"i agree"
"myrmidon is dead, everyone flies drakes. make myrmidon alive, give it some potent boni for its role, i.e. damage for piracy and ganking. drake's role is survivability and all range engagement in fleets.myrmidon deserves 125 mb bandwidth, full rack of blasters and it can be strong again. an option to substitute drake superiority."
"i want to speak of gallente.but not in a way \"give more, etc...\"i wanna show you some examples how gallente got cheated.when you gallente everything suggest you that your weapon is drones - learn drones well.but then suddenly:- no bc can use 5 heavy drones / sentries. not even a command ships :d- kronos (elite bs made mostly for npc killing) can not use 5 heavy/sentries and got miserable dronebay! even thought that it's prototype - megathrone can . this is unbelievable!!! btw tanking abilities of kronos are also **** as it has: poor resists & shortage low slots (where u also want to put some damage mods) & problems with capa.- t3 ship can not use 5 heavy/sentries even if u configure it as drone boat . well basically all proteus version are pretty useless, but may be it really ment to be so....- hyperion (high end of gallente bs's) useless ship as it bonuses are nonsense. (well may be for mission running it is ok though, but that is it.)not going to cry about blasters... it is just require to be pro to use them solo or in fleet (then it is pro fleet). why gallente navy didn't invent rig that would significantly increase blasters (only) optimal? :)some how drones control & mechanics/logic screwed, alway been.you can't broadcast your drone using drones window (for reps e.g.)you can't lock it using ctrl+click from drone window (only right click menu)shortcuts are only for all drones. you can not give command to specific (selected) drone unless you do right click and select an action from many options which takes too long.you can not teach your drones what to do when last order done. why wouldn't be possible to create few players scripts and assign those scripts to drones in drone settings? nothing too intelligent but e.g. after current order complete engage similar class target / higher class target / smaller class target / stay passive (as we have now in settings) / return and orbit / return to drone bay.or when hit broadcast for shield / armor / structure / all.why on earth drones returns to shot old target when i told them to shot new one and they seem to accept new order (new target is in range and everything is right)!!!"
"1. boost hacs. tier 2 bc occupy the same niches as the rebalanced hacs (im looking at you quantum rise) and do it much better for a fraction of the price. hurricaine is borderline silly atm with its dual neuts, ecm drones speed and dps, it prety much counters any hac u throw at it with 2x less cost and 2-3x less skillpoint requirment.look back towards nano hacs, make them less stupid but more like that, i do not want to fly tier 2 bc i want an alternative that doesnt require every inch of pilot skill i can muster to beat a 3 year younger toon in a damn drake/hurri.the drake-one ship one setup, superb range, dps , tank, speed without doing anything other than pressing f1 and mwding.missles in general-add a hard counter (lol defenders), or re-do the missle formula to pre quantum rise. fighter bombers-reduce the ehp on these a lot so bombing runs are actually effective on them.supercarriers- dont know what u were thinking with dominon patch at all, you go to great lengths to balance \"i win ships\" then introduce the dread/titan/ctrl q under primary mobile that is the nyx. loose the immunity to e-war bonus on sc loose sc in general or loose subscribers.blackops-a working portal generation skill would be a great start. add another 2 ly to the range ( 4-5 jumps to cross one region is dumb as hell). keep bridging costs the same but reduce the amount of fuel it takes to jump the ship itself drastically so we dont have to anchor fuel cans at each interval jump in hostile space where we are trying to [u]avoid[/u] the ompletely broken joke that is non delayed local and 15 region wide intel channels../rant over"
"1. fix gallente2. fix ewar frigates3. fix dessies / t2 dessies4. balance hacs5. balance t3s6. balance bcsi would be a happy camper."
"in about four weeks the megathron will be the final gallente hull to drop from eve-kill.net's top 20. it's currently at 16 with about 1/10th of the kills as the abaddon (no. 1 right now).why are gallente hulls not used? they don't dominate their intended range (close range) and in return can get kited really easily due to speed, range, fitting, and tanking issues. we've heard them all before. so how can gallente dominate their intended range? here's some suggestions:1. better tracking from blasters.2. tracking bonuses to drones on all gallente hulls. 5 small drones from a gallente hull should count for more than 5 small drones from another race's hull since drones are the gallente's preferred anti-frig defence. 3. bonuses to webifiers in some form (rigs perhaps?) 4. easier fitting requirements for gallente weapons so they can use what they were going to use for a fitting mod for tracking enhancements and/or webifiers instead.5. boosting baseline speed so that if the gallente hull wanted to \"nano\" it up a bit, they would be able to go as fast as their minmatar counterpart if they were to, say, fit the same number of overdrive injectors (+12.5% speed) as the minmatar ship fits nanofiber internal structures (9.4% speed increase) (i'm looking at you, myrmidon and brutix!). 6. hull rigs (to catch up with trimarks and cdfes) to increase ehp so that damage/tracking mods and webifiers could be fit on the ship instead of tanking mods. this is very similar to 4) above."
"with all of the ihub magic though, you have to ask, what makes it worthwhile for the system users to band up a fleet and fight? the frustrating part for the farmers is that once you get anywhere close to targets due to alliance / coalition intel channels, they all dock up. the only ones you catch are the supremely idiotic. fun everyone once in a while as those tend to be juicy but very, very spotty. there has to be a mechanism like the agony proposal that makes it worthwhile to respond early, quickly with a sub-optimal fleet. anything ihub based is just going to devolve into blue ball, wait, undock carrier, repair, rinse and repeat. the optimal strategy is to blue ball because there is not a huge loss if one waits. the alternative is endless grief from high command if the pitchfork ends badly (which it usually does). the circle of life then continues with large amounts of docking / pos'ing up until folks stop roaming the area. moreover, what incentive does a roaming gang have besides a bit of grief? afk cloakers do that job just as well. it would be nice if farming null sec was not a lotto and you could have some sort of reasonable expectation of a fight ala faction warfare. on the mining front, i agree that it should come from mining but with the caveat that it is a lot easier for folks to scale to x miners than to scale to x pve toons (ignoring bots). tie it to the comets or whatever ccp was dreaming up a while back. toss in a new strip laser and add new ore that yields that tons and tons of low end materials. the never a perfect refine scenario is interesting. two other options would be to (1) tweak the reprocess results ala t2 bpo / bpcs to not yield the original inputs or (2) eliminate compression by never allowing a reprocess to yield more volume than its perfect input (scale by x%). the second idea would be craptacular though without sufficient warning and some way else to source low ends in quantity."
"minerals: - hauler spawns dropping raw minerals and extra high yield scrap.- mining as current but with mining bonus added to prospecting arrays (think static command bonus).- belt stripper (no, not that kind of stripper silly!).* dumb (ie. no attack/defence) automated (not targeted by npcs) mining facility that spits out jet-cans as it goes through a belt, yield pretty low compared to actual mining.technology adapted from rogue drones (art department will love adding bits and pieces to human tech i think ).* has to be manually deployed to a belt and activated (think online/anchor). requires fuel of some sort?.* relatively low ehp but indestructible (see below). goes dormant when wrecked (reinforced) and auto-repairs after 12-18 hours.* needs to be reactivated after auto-repair. failure to do so in x hours allows remnants of rogue drone ai to take over and it 'morphs' into a rogue drone proper.production:- more assembly lines/slots in general.- material efficiency upgrades, ie. modifies me of print when built in station with upgrade (ninja-boost to null invention efforts as well as base manufacture).errm, and that's it for me i think.much easier to expand on the last loot nerf.- named modules cannot be built so their reproc values can be tanked with no ill side-effects.- unnamed modules should all have size increases to be really unwieldy.- bonus: faction modules should have a significant increase in reproc value. makes the 'trash drops' less trashy while increasing overall mineral supply."
"+1 its just too easy getting all the stuff needed from empire.boosting local 0.0 production can only be achieved by making outside resources harder to get."
"make sov activity based...no in theory it increases the chance you get a completely one-sided gank with a mineral drop that you cant move yourself anyway. small gang warfare != shooting ships that cannot shoot back.of course in practise you move it directly to either a station or a pos, and from there further with (jump) freighters. no point in suiciding industrials as form of small gang pvp.people dock up as soon as there is a red in local because it is beyond ******ed to not dock up (well or at least allign out). pve ship against pvp ship is suicidal. volunteerly doing pve ship + 700 dps or so from anomaly vs pvp ship(s) is full ******. i am personally all for a system where sov is not based on blobbing a few timers, activity based sov is still imo the best idea (who actually lives in a system gets sov, with some other stuff to make it a bit more fun for also those who want larger fights). that will create small gang fights, but no it does not give a roaming gang the capability of disrupting sov or something like that, and it shouldnt imo, the more you boost the pillaging kind of ability in eve the more people will be forced to blob to counter that."
"i'm still for adding small anchorable structures (in belts, on planets, on the sun!) that have relatively low hp so a gang can harass it. should have one timer of no more then 1h to allow defenders to assist.upon destruction it could drop fancy loot or other stuff that was needed to build it.the structures if intact would give bonuses to the planet, sun, belts. like more ore/faster respawns in belts. the structure on the sun could provide a reduction in pos fuel cost system wide (harvesting the energy of the sun!). the buildings near the planet could provide bonuses to pi or w/e.the buildings could also be temporary disabled by hacking modules and skill, and repaired (put back online) by science skilled people. (hacking would give some of the mods needed to build that can be sold on the market and repairing should require mods or minerals or so)they should cost a few hundred mill but no more, this way the attacker can get rich from destroying them, they'll cost too much to put in every 0.0 system and cost enough to want to defend it."
"and you just boosted blobbing and forced people even more to create huge powerblocks."
"let the industry upgrade tweak the moon content in the systems. when it reaches level 1+ some of the useless moons will all of a sudden contain a few random non local minerals. the higher the index, the better the minerals."
"back to this idea? then we're back to \"why should an industrial player move to null sec?\" because, short bot mining and super cap construction, the reasons are pretty minimal. that problem would spiral outward and end up with very few ships/modules for sale in null sec and rather high prices for them, thus constraining pvp. i'm out here to pvp, but i'm not short sighted enough to miss the fact that modules and ships don't magically appear on the market. you have to solve the industrial situation if you want to remove bridges."
"seriously, to folks that say logistics should be harder, have you actually run logistics to 0.0? not, zomg, this one time in band camp, we ran a freighter with a huge escort and it hella scary. real sustained logistics, i.e. supporting a corp or alliance for months. it is barely palatable as it is and is one of the worst activities in eve. but it has to be done and the pew pew (both inter-alliance and your roaming gang getting targets) relies on it getting done. folks would gladly give up getting stuff from jita if it could be sourced locally at anywhere near a reasonable premium of cost, time, and / or risk. manufacturing slot access is fundamentally critical as it opens the floodgates for the average industrialist (i.e not those of us who build supercaps) to flood the market with said ammo, t1 ships, and modules. slot access could be alleviated if pos access roles were fixed. pos access roles would be preferred due to the tastiness of destruction but that revamp is probably not happening any time soon. slot access might increase farmability due to lower cost / greater availability of goods but probably not by a significant amount.your best opportunity is to address the supply / farming issue in some sort of a combined solution. give the ability to reasonably locally source (reasonable, not sourcing a supercap). make said new sites reasonably pinnable in terms of avoiding logoffski / insta-warps where you are trapped for periods approaching say a siege or triage cycle to give a roaming gang a chance to actually get them without having to log nearby in space the prior day. a couple of examples: - make new ore type(s) with wtf levels of low-ends that has a chance to spawn a warp bubble with a 1-3 minute duration (think mercoxit but without the stupid geyser). put said ore type in belts for easy scanning / location. - create new w-space (class 6) with copious amounts of low end ore (bonus to ore yield as part of the anomaly bonus) and another link to null sec. if you give your average industrialist access to slots to build things and the ability to locally source it at a reasonable risk, the roaming gangs will get those juicy targets they want. heighten with something like the agony thing and voila, small gang awesome-sauce."
"so here's an ideamining is boring and risky in null right?and alot of people don't have the time or even want to rat.small gangs need something they can shoot that will drop something they want.so my ideadeployable \"mines\" in null roid belts.simple concept uses pi stuff to build a structure. the structure can be deployed in sov 2+ space. two tiers one that just mines(cheaper) and one that also refines. it will gather minerals as long as it's online it requires pi fuel and or ice fuel. has some decent health so 1 or 2 will take awhile to kill it but a gang of 6 can get it in a few mins. it drops pi + whatever is stored in it at the time for the looters. the mining deployable grabs what ever roids are in the belt. and mines a bit of everything.so what this will do is give more independence from jita, give the people with less time more passive incomegive small gangs a way to burn something and grab some loot to boot.make mining less boring by not doing it at all.keep in mine (pun) this thing should not out mine a retriever and should fill up after x amount of hours.also: when dust comes out you should be able to \"steal\" the structure.just an idea"
"industrialization (imo) is limited in 0.0 for the following reasons:availability of slots, as previously mentioned.availability of low-ends in 0.0 empire botting miners supply low ends to eve at low prices. there is no incentive to put a mining ship in a belt in 0.0 for low-ends. hauler spawns, drone/npc drops, and ? provide building material. some balance of the risk/reward with respect to low-ends.availability of t2 components in 0.0 is pretty much non-existant and needs to be imported. perhaps there could be an alternative source of t2 components based on missions or anomolies or something.regional t2 inputs. as soon as you overly regionalize various materials what you create is a jita market. that means everyone hauls their crap to jita. solution? in my mind the best solution is using pi on moons to extract moon goo and get rid of the pos miners. have regeneration randomized so that new sources of moon goo appear all over new eden. there can be biases based on regions, but having the good moon goo wander around all the moons in all the regions will break the tech monopoly and prevent future ones. it will also be attackable via small gangs and dust.i feel that randomization on regeneration should be applied to asteroids too. i also feel that high end minerals should be found in low-sec (in smaller quantities) as it is almost more dangerous to mine in low-sec that 0.0.it has always been my opinion that there should be a strip of low-sec between the major factions to break the jita monopoly and create 4 market hubs.in summary, moving moon mining to pi, spreading high end moon materials and minerals around all areas (in a somewhat biased fashion) and create a good risk/reward for 0.0 low-end minerals could create a self-sufficient 0.0 community with little or no ties to empire."
"another recent post in f&i's was to allow the creation of datacores via pi. i thought it appropriate to post it here too.... r&d on planetsmoving moon-goo entirely to pi would improve null-sec industry, but its impact needs to be carefully looked at. it might be better to have both pi-goo and moon-goo."
"add rewards for \"burning the crops\" like salvagable mods that have been destroyed during a raid."
"pretty much the people advocating jump bridge removal have no clue on the dynamics of 0.0 alliances. most of us hate being reliant on jita but nulsec industry isn't sustainable. going along with the anom changes ccp introduced, industrial hubs could be further adjusted with modifications to increase mining amount/other industry bonuses along with a module capacity limit on i-hubs leading to specialized systems rather than every system has everything. in this way, the systems with bad truesec that anom runners no longer care about could be specialized for industry, and if these modules were disruptable, could force a need to defend them otherwise risk the industry in the system being significantly hindered."
"well, lets ask the other way around, how many ppl would you be able to support with only local production capabilities atm?no offense but maybe you are just too many for the enviroment you live in if it wasnt for easy access to empire."
"friendly bump, this topic deserves at least a little more attention that it is getting."
"what others have said, make a herculean effort to address eve's many pitfalls in lapsed development, abandon features/etc.that will lure new players in with a game that the developer still cares about, word of mouth/articles/reviews from people seeing ccp fixed what was wrong or is on a quest to make their product better not just 'more' or 'bigger'. fix one thing and declare a laundry list of things they are tackling next, then follow through with it and communicate the process/problems.old vets will come back if all of the above comes to pass.if ccp just wants more nubs to fleece then make more 'inspiring' trailers that look great but don't reflect what the game is or what it will be for years to come, if ever. to sucker bitter vets back string them along with lies about fixing this or that, make a token effort to fix one thing that isn't too hard then scream about it from every mountain top. when that one thing gets done lie about doing more while on a mountain top, then don't do anything else, repeat every year or so while charging down the path of new shiny for nubs to fleece and chasing gaming awards to feed ccp's hubris."
"i would love to see this rather than a big bubble + many of the other suggestions would be great to."
"ability to name pos structures as we please. having 4 corp hangars and trying to find something in them is pain in the assability to name tabs in corp hangars as we like individually for every hangar. ability to make as much tabs as we need would be good too (maybe have a reasonable limit, say 20-30 tabs tops)access management, not only for pos itself, but hangars and ship bays. giving roles to people isn't an option when you have 3 poses with 6 corp hangars and need to give him access to only one. roles help, but they are limited.[*]if above is implemented, i wana be able to give/revoke access within \"edit member\" menu"
"make it possible to enter a password during character selection."
"poses have always been awful and the ccp made them worse.- ui needs a serious overhaul and some form of in game central tracker would very useful- pos fuel, its too bulky and too fiddly. the old proposal of fuel rods was brilliant but reduce the volume, doing multiple runs is not my idea of fun.- moon goo needs some form of overhaul scrap this naff idea of 'racial' distribution, that being said there needs to be a high value goo that makes a decent amount of isk to help support alliances- poses need some form of supercap defence, currently supercaps are essentially immune to pos defences. mods also need to be far more resistant to fighter bombers- building/pulling down towers takes a lifetime and is so boring i would rather chop my own balls of with a dull rusty spoon- building towers is a huge pain, the building ui needs updating, i would suggest talking to the ancient egyptians about a more recent design- forcefield access needs an overhaul, passwords are a pain and the system should have an option to allow blue entities to enter- poses need some mods that allow personal item/ship storage. ofc theres the huge problem of how you empty it to remove mod (director?)- more 'in-forcefield' mods need to be nameable (silo, sma, cha etc)- stront timers need more control (like the station timers) but still require stront to run, possibly allow remote modifications. reduce stront (the item) volume!thats all i can think of right now."
"going pirate means only flying larger ships that can tank the sentry guns or spending an even longer time looking for decent pvp. i'm not really interested in scanning down miners or pve ships. the concern over standings seems a bit overdone. you gain standings for the faction you fight for and only lose standings for the faction you fight against. its not that big of a deal. its not nearly as bad as screwing up your sec status.in faction war i generally will fight just about anyone i run across. yet about 90% of my fights are/were against the opposing faction. i can \"go pirate\" and stay in fw. but leaving faction war just means i will have about 10xs fewer pvp encounters. that makes the problem worse. i really dont have hours and hours to spend warping from system to system for a decent fight. joining a large war like fw should be a solution for people like me. i should be informed where the fighting is and what is needed so i can go fight. instead finding decent pvp in this game is like finding a needle in a haystack. if you have all sorts of time i guess eve is ok. but for those of us who want a bit more action on any given night  eve currently fails hard. fw should be the answer but its not."
"not entirely true. \"overall activity\" wins out over \"after downtime\" when you are defending or attacking an area with a large number of systems that are held by the same side (the baseline status quo right now) since you can force respawns into those systems throughout the day. \"after downtime\" beats \"overall activity\" when you are defending or attacking one system that has been occupied while all the other systems are occupied by the other side (ladistier a couple of weeks ago for example). in this case, all of the respawns into the system happen at after downtime."
"yep"
"you can tell that a race is weak when nobody, anywhere, is saying that they should be nerfed."
"1.0"
"it was impressive how many great designers where out there competing at the \"create a new starship\" contest. how about starting a \"create a new ui\" contest.there are a lot of good ideas out there, just let's find some common sense and let the artists use that as a base for their creativity. i know ccp is working on some kind of new interface but why not help them with that task.the actual ui is a real pain in many ways (i have rsi and thus i also mean real physical pain) and it's imo actually not fitting into the way ccp is going to be an innovative future oriented company."
"yes, this! there are tons of very creative players around who could possibly come up with some great ideas for ccp to impliment."
"really minor one:let us search contracts by description again.i miss just being able to wander into jita and search 'firesale' when i was bargain hunting, or 'construction kit', things like that."
"reading all this depresses a new player like me(1 year old) because i'm coming to realize now that all the time i've put into gallente has been wasted. i wonder what the stats are on how many players who quit eve are of the gallente race when they realize just how bad we suck."
"more bull**** numbers from made up formulas please."
"supported, boost hybrids too"
"i support this product and/or service."
"supported, it wouldn't take a insane amount of resources, we are not asking for uber new graphics or anything, just balancing them in base number of slots, changing base stats. have the ships differing in the ability's that increase per level, and type of slots they have (highs of missiles or guns, one more mid or one more low).allot of people here could think up some pretty simple numbers close to what it should be, just takes implementation."
"let me give you another example, i'll not even try with bc's or c's gallente class, it's an old horse:hyperion - the megathron fills the same role much better making the hyperion pointless and an expensive hangar queen.dominix- versatility, is there any other bs in the game except the rattlesnake that can fill the same number of roles?"
"1.0"
"supported. i have just finally cross trained matari because gallente have the worst ships and gun systems evar. i would like to be able to use them again."
"ccp took the time to add a pilot license tab to the character sheet but why oh why does it not tell you the date when your account is set to expire/renew? i would think that would be the first thing one would expect to see on this tab."
"if it would be at all possible, instead of nerfing everything. try adding to ships and modules. typically everyone using the same guns on different ships, everyone in major fleets using ancillaries and very little of the other race guns for the ship they are using? i would say that needs to be fixed. pvp needs to be looked over. you don't see pilots telling you to use the race guns for the race ships these days anymore."
"my top 4 of the littel annoying thing from the view of a wh inhabit: 1. no repackacking of items in pos hangars...2. it's not possible to save a pattern for a fleet. everytime someone set up a new fleet you have to go aaaaall the way through everything. new wing, new wing, 6 new squads, rename every squad, set free move, create advert blabla... thats just annoying and timeconsuming for no reason.3. why the heck isn't there a simple pos modul to repair ships, armor or boost up the shield? i mean, hey, its a big spacestation but i have to refit my ship with a remote armor repper and fly out of the ff to repair the simple armor of a drone...and whats most annoying is the situation of shieldtankers and pvp. you ever jumped into a onyx at your pos when everything has to move fast? your shield ist about 1/4... there should be a simple pos modul or something to recharge that shield. it couldn't be really true to refit the ship with shield booster and then start with an emty cap or wait for 2 hours until the shield recharged itself. i get the fact, that the shieldbonus that comes from your skills and implants just activates when you hop in to your ship. but shieldrigs and shieldextenders are assembeld into that ship even when nobody is piloting it. so why exactly is that shield bonus missing when i board the vessel?the really ridiculous part here is the fact that you don't have such problems when you undock from a staion...4. corp bms!!! nuff said"
"1. please allow us to change chars inside the same account without the need to login again!2. add a a reminder popup window for calendar events with a configurable time from zero to 30 minutes in increments of 5m, with a snooze and ack buttons. the snooze will allow the window to popup more times until it reaches the time of the event and continue even after the event has started until the user acknowledges the reminder window. also after we login, the reminder window should popup for past events to show us what we have lost while logged out. this way we can give a real use to the calendar, because a calendar that doesn't remind me that i have an appointment coming up, its not useful for me, since i do not have it open all the time. one after another, the events just happen and you not even notice then until days later. today, i have to use my outlook calendar to plan for ctas and pi because i need the reminders and the game does't provide them.3. please allow us to keep a collection of bookmarks in the cargo instead of independent unique bookmarks, the idea is to allow us to export all our bookmarks to one only object and then load then in another char. my biggest problem is that i want to share bookmarks between my alts and i have to export 500 bookmarks on sets of 5 to a cargo, keep 500 bookmarks in the cargo that take forever to load (bug?) trade them to my alt and then import. and repeat this again and again and again for all my alts... that is time consuming and annoying. please lets us play the game like we want it, allow us to select all, export to cargo, see only one object there (collection of bookmarks object) and them trade one object to my alt and import it to my bookmarks colection.4. please save our overviews settings in the server side.5. please allow us to stack items inside a pos or a carrier corporate hangers.6. please allow us to open cans inside a pos or a carrier corporate hangers.7. please allow us to see what items in the cargo of ship or hanger, are damage by adding some visual symbol to the icons.8. please allow us to see what drones present in the drone bay, cargo of ship or hanger are damage in armor or structure by adding some visual symbol to the icons.9. why, when i'm opening a cyno and have the necessary fuel but separated in small amounts it doesn't allow me to open the cyno until i stack it? please fix that.10. why wait 30 seconds after i enter a fleet or change position inside one, before i'm allowed to jump a gate or change a ship? what is the logic? if nothing comes up, please fix that also.11. in the inventory window the search doesn't look inside any of my cans, so i still cannot find what i'm looking for. can you fix this, is very annoying...12. very annoying to have to stop training before we jump to a clone, i normally forget to start the training again and i loose days before i realize that i'm not training anymore!!!that is it for now. bye, thanks."
"tracking issues in a forum is not efficient nor it gives the user any feedback on what the devs are doing with our requests / suggestions. i recommend using a specific tool for that, a task tracking tool like redmine"
"wanted to write something similar. it was a great idea to implement a calendar but it does not even provide the simplest features to make it useful.- show notifications for upcuming events after login like the ones for finished skills, new mails etc.- do the same while ingame x-min (separately configurable) before an event with a notifcation or a clickable popup for afk'ers if you want (not as default ofc)- (advanced feat.) use this for stuff like pi timers or invention or whatever (maybe a button in the pi interface to simply place an appointment in the calendar for the last cycle of the extractors, nothing fancy) though i would be happy to even get any notifications at all ;)- activate toggle window for all windows that you can open from the \"taskbar\" not only for the fitting window. it's really hard to close them with these microscopic small [x] button. ctrl+w is an option but therefor the window needs to be in focus and a toggle could close the window even if it's somewhere in the background.- make it possible to open also the 'tree' of an item in the market window when clicking on the item category and not only the items overview. maybe with ctrl pressed or a button. i bet many people don't even know that you can click on the category because it's just text, same goes btw for drag and drop of the fitting from the fitting screens ship name. and no it's absolutely not obvious that the name is drag'able :o- and/or maybe add \"open market category/hierarchy\" to the right-click menu. makes it much less click-intensive to find similar items in the market window- make \"view market details\" also available in the compare items window- fix announced next targets markers in the overview without making it necessary to switch tabs every view min. to clean them up, so they don't show up on wrecks or cans ......oh dinner time :)"
"this is something thats bugged me for like - ever. im sure others have issues with this.so i want to discuss losing skill points when forgetting to upgrade clone.i am all in favour of a penalty if there needs to be one (i dont think any other mmo does this). however why should i lose a ton more skill points than someone with less skillpoints?i recently lost cap ships 5 - ouch - well i forgot to upgrade - why well because there were a big battle going on, you die, you quickly jump back in a ship to fight again, forget to upgrade. it happens..fair enough..(and please none of that, 'well you wont forget again' nonsense. it wont be my first or last time, and im sure its happens to tons of players)so ccp take the highest level 5 you have and remove it.but i lost 43 days!! just for not upgrading my clone! seriously..is this a joke? again i dont mind penalties but 43 days is wrong, very wrong.now if someone else with less skill points forgets to upgrade and say only has a low level 5 - they lose probably a few days!is that fair? really? i dont think so.people dont mind paying more for upgrading clones, but getting severely punished for something minor just because because people have more sp is not right.personally i think it should be removed, i dont see the purpose of it. rather than just **** people off."
"i personally think an \"automatically update my clone\" option would be a good addition to the game. however i do not support the removal of the clone system in eve. it gives choices/values to where you place your clone and is a good isk sink."
"the game keeps a log of what skills you trained and when. they should remove trained skills chronologically, starting with the most recently trained and going backwards.i've never been in this situation so i don't know if that's the way it's done or not. if it is, then it's correct and should not be changed.eve is a game of personal responsibility and consequences. the skill point loss should remain for failing to maintain your clones ... personal responsibility = personal consequences."
"that's your problem--u believe sp maintenance is \"something minor\" and since it's anything but, that's what u get for neglecting it, not because u had more sp but because u neglected to maintain that sp. obviously, u didn't value your sp enough to care."
"it's your own fault for not updating the clone, i mean it's not as if you didn't notice that you got podded."
"it's not some penalties but a punishment and i agree it's absolutely stupid.unless it makes another 1.5month subscription or another ragequit (justified that one).loosing your ship+implants already hurts enough but the full skill training time is dumb, so eve's scientists are smart enough to make you jump in to another clone but too stupid to make the system auto-update your personal data when you dock.fair enough, they can't make blasters/rails/platforms work properly so why would they be able to do that?to be perfectly honest, there are more penalties than fun at the current state of the game, then you have tards begging why people don't answer to cta's or do other things than grind missions.maybe it's some masochist game, they have the right to have their fun too but from some \"normal\" point of view a lot of small stuff like that is completely stupid."
"^^ this. and to add in my 2 cents. having an automatic med clone thing would nullify the point in having a clone. its there to set you back isk, if you rush then thats your problem. here is the very simple process that goes through one's mind when they get podded:1. oops i got podded, now i am back in station.2. yay med clone updated!3. yay! in ship and undocking! only 3 steps. :)"
"lol you guys are the best trolls1) you didnt even read the post, before posting, hence making you look dumber than forrest gump2) offer no real constructive feedback - obvious troll is obvious3) because of parts 1 and 2, your brain is unable to come out with anything even noteworthy of my attention, simple troll response 'duh your fault'4) trolls only troll for attention, as they dont get any from anywhere else.so back to it shall we.firstly and this is for the trolls and people who cant readi never said there was an issue with penalties, infact im sure i said the opposite.so you points there are completely invalid (see above 1-4)so lets reply to theseobviously not the sharpest pencil in the case are we? maybe if you read my post properly you would of seen this...but coming from veto corp, who obviously has no clue about this stuff, big fights and stuff..your opinion really means nothing..sorryi think i just made my point..this is more relevant...perhaps you may understand also that when you doing you know pvp - (i know this isnt somethig you have much experience in) especially fights, you cant always clone back to a med station, as you usually have to get back in the fight asap..upgrading a clone isnt always you first thing..but i think i said this already..which you failed to read...your name fits you well so lets get back to it..the issue is why have such a massive hit for not upgrading your clone, 43 days and i bet its been like alot more for some people is unfair, it simply is.eespecially when others with less skillpoints dont lose as many!so what we are saying is for my loyalty as a long term player, paying years of subs, and lots of training i should get penalised more? really?im already paying millions more just upgrade my clone, but then i get a double whammy as well? whilst lower skilled people dont?my reason for saying remove it was, well is there really a half way solution? perhaps...i dont see the reason for this mechanic? apart from annoying people! what purpose does this serve? penalising people for not upgrading a clone.yes you say its a game mechanic, but why? why is it even there? now its probably because ccp thinks, it will keep you in the game longer. but to be honest im sure many people have left the game because this has happened. infact i know they have.they spend days/weeks training only to have it taken away from a minor event?and yes it is minor..no one has yet come up with a reason why its there..just cos...lets do an experiment then...and see if your thinking changes.this is for 30 mill + players. go pod your self, dont upgrade, pod yourself again,, and when you lose your hard earned (which you played and paid for!!!) level 5, then come back and say - your happy.."
"hey look at it this way, you will not need that alt to allow you to play and fly your titan. if you can pod yourself to an alpha clone, imagine how much you would be saving."
"1. and u ignore the post that clearly answers your question of why it seems so \"unfair\" to u. guess what? it's not--u just thought sp maintenance is a minor thing even though u knew full well what the consequences r. if anyone's that dumb, it's u.2. look who's talking.3. see #2.4. translation: u're looking for attention by whining.oh of course u didn't say it--u're just crying so much about it this whole time. derp. u never \"had to\" jump back in and get podded again--u did it because u were too stupid to check what u consider \"something minor\" and paid the consequences for it. deal with it.news flash: u're not entitled to an everlasting wow-style easy mode just because u think u've reached \"vet\" status. if u and whatever u call your long-term \"experience\" can't handle something this simple, roll an alt.they can't fly capital ships, or have up to par armor tanks, shield tanks, guns, missiles, ewar, fittings, all of the above. if u can't handle all those perks, roll an alt. then u can see what it's like to be a powerless newb again and wonder why he shouldn't be punished as much as u.besides the above, it's to punish stupidity, namely yours. u're just mad because u got what was coming to u. since they're as stupid as u r, they would've lost something else just as valuable eventually and still quit.there u go with the \"minor event\" again. that's why u lost what u lost--because u just don't care.so u want ccp to prevent your losses for intentionally getting yourself killed? just biomass. after all, it's the same thing because either way, u chose to let it happen."
"stopped reading at this point... i think i found your problem.take your mistake like a man... stop whining.i found out recently my clone was outdated... how?i check each-and-every day my sp counter.how to fix? i go find a med bay pronto and update my clone.what the hell is such a big deal/problem with doing such a simple task?the only fixing here that needs doing is your memory.perhaps an auto switch... but this system is working fine... it penalizes absentminded pilots who think they know better.gives me an edge... i like that."
"drake, why are you so angry man. the poor bastard is really having issues, be cool dude.he was flipping out that once he was able to fly a titan, he realized that he needed to have a second account to play the game! now he lost valuable sp's and time, because he just realized that he had to update his character. i am noticing a theme....."
"holy **** its holier than though troll drake - again....dont you get tired of trolling assembly hall and the forums, with your constant angry, childish attitude? really? dont you? i mean is there anything you do agree with?or do you just enjoy being a douche?i mean for example"
"wow baaldor - you got some real ' i need attention issues' ...or is drake your alt..i dunno you guys should like hook up, and rewrite the game or something..cos you opinion really matters to me and others ....ermmm ok perhaps not..."
"i think the clone upgrade feature works perfectly well. you just need to keep an eye on it and make sure to purchase and upgrade that has room to grow into. what happened to the op sucks, no doubt, but it's a well known part of the game and i just don't see why it needs to be changed."
"sounds like personal problem."
"i believe the phrase your looking for is \"u mad?\"oh and awesome to hear we have one less foolish super-cap pilot thanks to his.... absent mindedness.:)on second thought... maybe it is a personal problem.*oh and hi to noir.! o/*keep those tears coming op... keep those tears coming."
"yes, i too am an attention *****.and confirming drake is my nerd raging angry alt."
"a auto-update (to a pre-set level) seems like a sensible idea. it does seem odd that after selecting omegawhatevertron level clone it reverts to noobtron every time. why not have it stay at omegatron if you select it once, until you run out of isk.i understand that players should be able to mess with each-other, that doesn't mean the game interface itself should be designed to be a diabolic as possible, doesn't ccp want more people to play?though having clones in the game, have a progressively higher cost for higher skill-point characters (20 million for my main where as alts are a million or less). so for more deployment or loss costs of the more skilled character it is still a good idea to have clones in game."
"u mean the **** loads of your own 13 year old posts in this thread alone? the difference is, we didn't lose 40+ days of sp like a dumbass; u did and u're crying about your own stupidity."
"indeed it seems your lights are on, but no one is home.i did laugh though knowing you'd lost that level 5, so thanks for that."
"supported conditionally.what i support is a pop-up reminder saying \"warning: you are about to undock while your medical clone is out-of-date. if your capsule is destroyed, you will lose skillpoints. are you sure you want to do this?\"i do not support any other change."
"1. you imply your time is valuable, but clearly you have enough time to look up kbs and reply to people and argue that ccp needs to hold your hand for everything.2. if you are a capital pilot, then you should have half a brain to update clone all the time, especially since you imply to be so uber(granted you are posting on an alt, tough guy lol). 3. why the hell would you change your med clone station to a station that doesn't have cloning services? 4. when you grow up to the age past 15, you'll start to learn your proprieties. such as taking a second to do what you need to do, then also realize it's only a game. 5. you forgot to upgrade your clone. deal with it. 6. see 1.7. see 2.8. see 3.9. see 4.11. see 10.12. see 1-12as to why the med clone is there, it's so you keep an eye on your skills and can't repeatily die and respawn at whim. if it updated automatically with a set charge, then it means you could keep dieing and coming back and end up in negative money but still be able to go in deeper, therefore it nullifies the point in buying a clone upgrade. if you were to stop med clones when you reached 0 isk, then people would undock anyways, knowing they dont have the money and risk it and die and then make a huge pointless rant to ccp to change it. and new people can't fly capitals, so they can't lose the skill if they don't have it. it's kinda a scaling thing. you (supposdly) have more skill then a newer person, therefore that newer person may think it's unfair that you have an advantage over them because you can fly a cap, they can not. please stop replying, your parents need to limit your use on the keyboard. and obviously have failed to instil any form of discipline in you for ranting endlessly about something so easy to avoid. and then throw a temper tantrum over it."
"you also neglected to mention that he has a second anus on his forehead."
"lets face the truth.although u may not like this system it is a core mechanic that ccp will not be getting rid of in the future.second something. ok so e all watched the future vision vid. a. please pretty pretty please dont make eve have ground combat. i did say lease. b. what happens if u are killed outside ure pod like on the vid. in eve fiction u die permanetely."
"all i asked for was feedback. constructive feedback. i am well used to being disagreed with. i didn't threaten to ban you, i don't have the power nor the will too. i threatened to report you through a feature that is available to every individual on this forum. it is not a 'dictate' to ask for civil discussion."
"\"forced vacation\" means banned."
"i have a few corpmates that can no longer afford to plex their accounts because of the anom nerf. the truesec of tribute doesn't allow for any more sanctums than i can count on my hands. they simply don't have the time to go make enough isk to support a plex and are considering leaving eve because they literally can't afford the opportunity cost that is now necessary for eve. less people in 0.0 means less conflict. if we don't have a crowding of null then there is no need for people to fight in order to gain space."
"sanctums, especially because they are paid for by the owners of the system, should be available just like level 4 missions are available to anyone in high security space. nothing less, nothing more. having an alt in empire just to spin a couple of missions is a ******ed excuse for a game mechanic. removing the easiest way to get to some quick pve content is not a way you develop your game.to ccp: next time you decide to throw market and general pvp data to the lead economist and think about nerfing legitimate player's income for the sake of a \"greater good\", please include statistics about how many bots were active in the observed period and calculate their impact on the global economy. thank you."
"hi gentlemen !my observation: 0.0 got vastly depopulated in a very short timespan. many are very angry at ccp.my own alliance: we have found ways to adapt, but we had to immediately write off xx bil isk of now unused and worthless upgrades and infrastructure which never paid for itself by now.i see a huge impact on classic renters, because:reasons for and against renters in a powerblock-space:+ renters do pay rent+ renters could increase fleet numbers, but then they pay less rent eventually+ renters harvest space, which would not be harvested and bring the same value otherwise- renters do whine (e.g. about the cloaky parking in system, about unfriendly roamings, ...)- renters do cause trouble (e.g. you need to deliver them logistics for ihubs, large upgrades, ..)- renters tend to be illoyal and potential spies- renters could create conflict of their own disturbing general business- renters demand visible profit, most renters were there for maximal profit with minimal risk.short: a powerblock takes renters as long as the income generated by them is worth the trouble.pre-nerf-situation was that most renters obviously were worth the trouble.post-nerf-situation is that most are no worth the trouble / not willing to pay the amount of rent to be worth the trouble.gone for good are:- renters which were only there for huge profits with minimal risk (no ninja-salvagers, no ganks, a master you can whine at for even the slightest bit of trouble you should be able to handle yourselves) my opinion: many of them were just greedy parasites.gone for bad are:- small alliances who tried to get a foothold in 0.0, who tried to get at least some decent income so their members could afford more shiny and powerful ships, as e.g. capitals, faction-ships, etc. who would use those ships for conflict and pvp on their own or for their masters.in my alliance we have adapted:- you can optimize your ships for other kinds of anomalies still there in worst truesec, so you may still get decent ticks.- you may revert to more mining and production, away from no-brains-stupid-shooting-easy-isk to have-a-plan-do-something-with-brains-isk- if you don't want to pay the same rent as before, be of some military value to your master. be pet not renter, do some dirty and mercenary-style jobs for them, get involved into their business and help them, become part of them. throw out some rebelling renters for them, be the first line of defense to unfriendly neighbors.to be honest: the absolute main and disastrous problem for ccp is their total disregard of any kind of respect towards their customers and their total lack of decent communication and reasoning.in consequence people do overreact in anger instead of adapting and i expect some percentage to be done with eve for a while.ccp could have done better:- publicly discuss the changes in advance- give more time to prepare, so all investitions could have been written off.- be more honest about the real changes (devblog is in part outright lying at ccp customers)- rebalance just bounty/loot first, if changes were urgent to reduce isk-inflationi am of the opinion that this changes, especially the accompagnying lack of competent communications with their customerbase has lost them credibility and i bet that it will cost them dearly in cancelled subscriptions and reduced overall growth."
"i take it you have added this suggestion to the industrialization thread? would fit nicely in a revamp of null industry as a supplement to mining.then again it would need some tweaks as the hauling required just for current hauler spawns is almost as tedious as mining itself .. perhaps special versions of scrap metal (most hated drop in eve!) that give very high yields in reproc.freeloaders are prone to anger when their ride comes to an end, nothing new there. would have had the exact same response with a bounty/loot nerf instead as the end result is similar.it was announced what 3-4 weeks prior to the change going through? ample time to start cooking the books to balance the loss of income in the short term."
"i'm not in any kind of high position in my corp or alliance so i have no feedback from the bosses about changes to corp revenue, but for many of the grunts this has removed some of their capability to reship quickly and expand personal assests. this affects new 0.0 players much more than those out there for 6 months or more before the changes. this also hits the people with little time to play quite hard as there is more competition than before for the bounty sites to spam for an hour or two before logging off.our leadership do a very good reimbursement program, and when coupled with insurance our players don't loose much isk to a ship loss but processing claims can take time. a new nullsec player thats lost a few ships quickly might end up very poor very fast; reimbursement on the way doesnt help if i can't reship now and get back into the fun and not every corp is as cool as ours about this. some of us have multiple characters to speed up isk making, many however don't and its these guys that feel the pinch. the vaunted 'push button - recieve bacon' at fanfest has slipped up on the greasy kitchen floor; one of the principal reasons for the change stated was \"to allow small aliances more access to 0.0\" when in fact this change makes it an awful lot harder for the new guys coming out to fund their operations -facepalm-.a final point is i now have no idea what level 5 military upgrade actually does aside from fill up some dots on a bar. answers on a postcard?alternatives are there of course - extra plex types and mining can be viable for those with the right skills in place and if the situation stays as is we will of course adapt; as a large corp in a large alliance we have the flexability to do this. smaller and newer guys will, to repeat my point earlier, suffer this the most :("
"pre nerf i ran sanctums and havens exclusively, and even during crowded hours, could run them almost consecutively at times only having to jump to another system to find one that was open. it was quite easy for me to make 30-35 mil in a half hour barring the random hostile that would run through the area. this actually led to a great deal of fun in the form of impromptu home defense fleets. after the change i was shocked at the number of havens in extremely low truesec systems. it wasn't so bad during non peak hours. but at peak times said system(s) were full to the brim and it was impossible to find an open haven or sanctum. before the change i would have just gone next door, or a few down into an out of the way system. but it's no longer an option now since those systems are below the threshold for even havens to spawn.from what i've seen, those out of the way or pipeline systems that formerly had people running anoms are now desolate and lifeless. i actually transferred money back to my old highsec alt to buy a tengu and blitz l4's since its guaranteed, sustainable and really quite good income compared to jumping clear across a region just to find one of the few systems with open havens and sanctums. since the change i've actually made substantially more isk from pi than i have from running nulsec anoms. not because pi is fantastic, but because i'm usually on my highsec alt when i need to make some isk. this has the unfortunate consequence of robbing the corp and alliance of tax revenue. if i may, the change in itself was not a terrible idea, however the issue arises from the average truesec threshold that was chosen to spawn havens and sanctums. the result renders a vast majority of nulsec systems to be trash for those that want to run anoms for their isk. a possible solution could be to re-evaluate the threshold for high value anoms, and/or to cause them to spawn in a given constellation based on a constellation average truesec rather than the truesec of the individual system. additionally, the risk/reward could be looked at again to more accurately reflect their rarity.one additional statement: as i understand it, the reason given for the change was to break the perceived stability in nulsec and give different empires a reason to invade and conquer better space outside of access to better moons, or just better truesec systems. unfortunately in the current state of the game, no one is going to launch an alliance or coalition wide invasion of a region just because they want to run sanctums. the anoms are, if you will, an additional reward for controlling space and not the primary reason. in other mmo's when you raid, you raid for the big ticket items. in eve this would equate to controlling the high end moons and the space itself. the anoms are essentially the lesser items that drop along the way to the boss, and the big ticket loot. yes they're nice to have, but at the same time they aren't worth raiding for on their own, in fact, they aren't even a determining factor in whether to raid. what i'm trying to get at i guess is that from where i sit, it seems havens and sanctums are not nearly relevant enough from an alliance perspective to prompt the massive military and logistical commitment involved in taking over and defending a system, constellation, or region from another established power."
"you talk of blitzing for lp being a guaranteed sustainable income and demonstrate that you fail to understand one of the reasons why anoms were hit so hard yet l4 missions weren't.since you're blitzing the majority of your income is now coming from selling items to the market rather than putting your cup under a pure isk faucet. also you should be aware that as more people run missions the value of the lp will reduce due to competition to sell the items that you receive. so the market will to an extent balance the income differences between l4s and anoms making those anoms appear more valuable than they do at this time.as a result of this the anomaly nerf is also an l4 mission nerf that many have been crying for. also i see as a result you've started putting more effort into pi, as will many others now... this is a good thing as it will also feed into the market reducing not only the prices of pi goods, but also goods that rely on pi products, e.g. pos running costs ---> cheaper drugs and t2 components / mods.the reality of this is that you won't be able to afford every shiny ship you ever wanted by repeating a brainless activity ad infinitum, but instead these 'treats' will still be available to those who use their brains and adapt."
"which still makes more isk then 0.0, just not in terms of \"printed isk\".everyone of us doesnt give a **** where isk comes from, as long as we get it for being in 0.0 i wouldn't mind if all bounties were changed to lp, at least we can still rat.i totally agree that the isk faucets needed to be nerfed, but they should have made some sort of new lp system instead of making 90% of 0.0 worse for isk making compared to highsec."
"you did read the bit about lp coversion income being dramatically reduced?the lp conversion on in eams has already halved.you're post basically demand easy access to lots and lots of isk, and then makes up some random figures about hi-sec l4s to justify why you should be allowed to rat your way to an sc without engaging your brain.the reality is that getting rich in eve is achieved by getting involved with the market."
"it means probation."
"the free market is incredibly resilient. when the profit of one lp item drops, people will shift to another. the constant hunger for faction ammo makes it possibly the most sustainable of all lp items but it too is subject to ups and downs. people will adapt to market changes, this is the core principle that ensures blitzing level 4's remains profitable.there is additionally a disconnect between what people want and expect between hi-sec and nulsec. i am personally in the camp of nulsec should be risky, but profitable, at least more profitable than hi-sec. the issue is with adaptation hi-sec is a never ending faucet of profit.i do not disagree that a change had to be made. what i do disagree with is the severity and how it was made. despite ccp touting eve as a social networking tool this change seems to endorse a playstyle of use anonymous npc hisec alts for your money making, then jump back to your nulsec pvp main. it's not terrible for fountain, deklein, or generally any residents in a region with some good truesec systems. i just ran some havens tonight because the system was nearly empty. the change seems to harm small alliances that may have to settle for terrible space. if anything, it seems to endorse a nulsec powerbloc napfest. fear is one of the most powerful emotions we have. in this case, the fear of losing what decent space a group may have trumps a desire to attempt to upgrade to slightly better space."
"lp = redistribution of isk, bounties = printing of isk.former will balance itself as it were in due time, latter leads to ever increasing prices.high-sec mission lp will probably end up around 500-750/lp once the dust settles (was around that level immediately prior to infinite-isk patch, aka. dominion) and with the promised dynamic agent quality the overall lp intake will drop as well .. or getting involved with someone involved in the market .... and then robbing them blind"
"this. i really don't see why it couldn't just be modules which would have to be sold to convert it into isk. it would solve the isk printing malarkey. vovdisclaimer: i don't rat because i find it mindboggingly boring. i've better avenues for getting isk.edit: and it would make it slightly more of a chore to actually get isk from bots, it would make it easier to grief people by salvaging their anoms/missions and it would drive up the demand for the noctis."
"if there is more lp in circulation then the value of that lp is worth less."
"pre-nerf: 2sanctums 2 heavens each system worked fine.after-nerf: we've kinda lucked out on it due to having 3 systems with security class 7 (-0.8 to -1.0 our best), the -1.0 has 3 sanctums 6-7 havens same applys to the -0.92 and -0.8 but out -0.73 has only 1 sanctum and 4 heavens.. and i for one concider -0.73 fairly high so i dunno what ccp was thinking with this. the other problem this change has brougth along our good systems are now being perma camp't by afk cloakers.. in my opinion ccp shoudnt have rolled out this terrible patch without also patching afk cloaking. way to go..my2cent: i'm not asking them to make it like it was before but atleast patch it to a level where it makes sense. instad of binding the number of annos to the sec status why not bind annomaly bountys to the sec status that would make space different and ppl would still be able to make a living in zero space. and maybe you get a bonus sanctum/heaven if system has a station.. or something like that of if you hold const sov.. something along the way."
"unfortunately, this is part of the problem. why go find a decent/quiet ratting system when you can sit in empire and spam level 4's? why have the hassle of constantly watching your scanner and/or local when you can mindlessly spam level 4's?the trouble is that level 4's are reliable and uncompetitive. you don't have you battle against corp mate's or alliance members to be the first to logon on get into the belts/anoms. no matter how many people missioning the agents just keep doling out the missions."
"unless you're making isk off lps then baseline income from l4s is pretty poor, once you get into lps it gets very competitive. loot and salvage is also competitive and subject to disruption by other players.this thread is going exactly the same way as the last one, lots of players who were used to an endless sources of easy isk are only prepared to move onto another source of easy isk. not even realising that the grass they're heading for is about to get massively over grazed because is it does matter how many people do missions. sadly figuring this out requires a brain and those whining here haven't had to use theirs for too long."
"oh this is very true. i personally didn't get involved with lp or salvage when i was running level 4's and as such would make around 100mill a day if the rng was kind to me. but you're right, for the more \"hardcore\" mission runners i guess there was alot competition over selling goods. now living down in a null-sec pipe system making the iskies is alot more problematic. alot of through traffic and not many anoms in npc space. lots of shooting and getting shot at though, which is fun."
"so you agree with this change? level 4 \"combat\" agents are spread out, though not to the point where they are rare, and the quality varies widely."
"because of this overly ******ed change. now my corp has moved back to empire. thanks a lot ccp. hope this is what you wanted! giving in to the cry babies once again."
"simply, fact is that now the old bad 0.0 ( witch bevore upgrades nobody wants) is bad again, not as bad but still bad, while old good one (-0,8 and down) is even bedder. ok that there need to be a divrence i understand, but such a? so old richt systems even ged richer! and the upgrate system is nonsense now, only produce coasts in bad systems. so i only see 3 points, to change. first i understand ccp afford to make the true sec more important again, and by this reducing the gained money in 0.0 a littel, fact is 0.0 was in compare to emp to rich, clearly it must give more money because of risks but this was too much. so what can we do:1. make the sanctums(witch are the highest) spawn down from every system witch has 0,2 (0,3 or so must be discussed) to lower, with 1 more every 0,2 less securety. so a 0.2 has 1, 2 havens, 3 to 4 hubs and small rubish. a 0.4 gets 2 witch 3 haven etc, always make haven (second incoming rate) 1 more thant sanctum, hub witch is also ok make 1 or 2 more than haven. so a -1 would have a total number of 4 sanctums, clearly more than rest but still ok and the gap is not so big like now (0.2 0 sanctums, -1 like 8, wtf) and also second make the payout of the pirates more depended on the true sec, now i only see while chaining like it makes 500k less max bounty, do more there! in 0,2 it would be ok if a howle sanktum only gives 18 to 20 million isk, in -1 30 to 35second option:make everything like bevore, 4 everywhere but change even more massive the outcoming like in 0.0 its only 15 in -1 its 35 to 40. third (withc i like most because it would even push mining better even as i do not mine)change regions, so every region has at least 2 to 4 -1, 3 to 5 -0.9, 5-7 0.8 etc. so even close areas get bedder, clearly this again will lead into all want this but ok. you cane mike it depend a littel on the range to high sec, like a area like peroid basis, where you have to fly thorugh at least 2 other to get into emp, gets a factor withc increases the number of total -1 systems by 1,5 or so. and allwys its only a % of total systems in area witch are so, so we still have diverences but will have not the problem like now, tribute has only 12 systems witch sancutms left (and also with very vew) and tenal has like 40 to 50 and over 12 witch are bedder than all tribut once."
"to everyone freaking out about the change, you must realize that this needed to happen. ccp changed something they thought would work. turns out it injected isk into eve faster than a hooker with a turkey baster. ccp noticed this and pulled the plug to a certain degree.with that said however, this solution is not ideal without some form of making 0.0 more self-sustainable. there is a reason 425's get shipped into 0.0 in a jump freighter in order to build supercaps. while i applaud the eve community on this innovative workaround to the logistical nightmare of very large build orders, the industrial worth/aspect of systems should be looked at as well.i'm not going to give my own anecdotes past/present involving the change/nerf because i don't believe them to be a valuable metric on figuring out whether or not this was a good change. in the end, look at the numbers. the faucet was opened hard and gigantic injections of isk into the system is a bad thing. i repeat, a very bad thing.the discussion of whether or not more money can be made doing lvl 4's also needs to be thrown out of the discussion. lvl 4 missions are fine because while the individual players are making more money potentially, lp's are a sink. lvl 4 missions do not inject a disproportionate amount of isk directly into the system, they just serve to funnel isk into different areas. also, with more players running to the hills to do missions in high-sec, this should mean less players in null running anomalies, and a deflated value for lp's making them even less profitable. win win.however, back to the industrial aspect of the systems, i think that drop rates for items looted from wrecks should be increased and bounties should be decreased. more salvaging, more looting and melting, and less mindless faucet. industrial activities are another way of funneling isk to different places rather than injecting it into the economy. make mining tritanium in null-sec worth a damn. create more sites with the abc ores'.on the flip side as well, nerf high-sec a bit. make it less profitable to afk/bot mine. reduce incomes from lvl 4's a tad. stuff like that. a slight boost to 0.0 and a slight nerf to high-sec might make 0.0 look a bit better than grinding missions just to buy a plex just to play the game.p.s. at csm. it looks bad when you try and encourage a discussion about the pros/cons of this change when you color the dialog right from the start by suggesting that you have already taken a position on the subject. i'm not trying to imply that you have improperly moderated this thread (tried to keep it on topic) by bullying people into giving you the answers you want to hear; coming at the subject with the idea that by virtue of there being billions of people screaming that this is a bad idea automatically makes it a bad idea is a proclivity i'm not sure you can afford. as my understanding goes, you are the voice of the player-base, but this does not always mean that you should mindlessly heed what they clamor for. if a thread went up from players asking for officers to spawn in every single system non-stop, and literally every single player in eve gave it the ole-thumbs-up, it would still not be good for eve."
"that's probably because you were running lvl 4s for minmatar back in the day. sure, lp value is a scarcity thing. however, i honestly didn't get into running anoms much and continued doing lvl 4s like usual on alts because i can run those while doing other stuff, unlike anoms. everyone went back to the way they had been doing things before. the complaint is how ccp handled this. it hurt, almost entirely, the smaller/newer corps/alliances and was nothing more than a temporary boost for players in big/old corps/alliances. because the older guys already had assets in place to take advantage of this, moreover, they also hold good space so they are still benefiting from this change. this accounts for a good chunk of the nc and the goons. the smaller guys invested in assets based on the mechanics as they were only to get what amounted to a sucker punch with the nerf bat. that is the complaint."
"so you're claiming semi afk single boxed missions without blitzing are good isk. belt ratting is far better isk than that after some chaining.i've done both going for bounties ( for decent income you need to dual box and salvage ) and blitzing for lp ( very low ticks ), blitzing has been the most profitable though i dumped all my lp moved into manufacturing when the nerf was announced as it was predictable that the lp market was going to crash as it has started to."
"this made me sad , its exactly the kinda thing that ccp fails to see. and shoud most definatly be brought to their attention. if they want people to get out to 0.0 and get involved in real alliances they need to make it possible for new players to have stuff to do.. nerfing anoms very badly has made it so theres much less stuff for them to do."
"i have 5 boxes. and it seemed to me like the lp stuff started coming down in value almost immediately after the dev blog about anoms."
"this entirely. for me the change isn't bad at all. but i had the resources and skillpoints to move around and get into different areas to make isk depending on how the market winds blow. newer players and small alliances aren't nearly so lucky and as i said previously, this change essentially says \"gtfo of nulsec unless you're part of a massive power bloc and have the resources to actually hold good space.\""
"im going to make a very basic reply and i belive i can speak for a good majority of 0.0 pvpersthe amoms funded pvpless amoms = alot more grind or moving out of null sec to high sec and overall = less pvpcsm can you please educate ccp please... srlsy because at the end of the day its not all about having a slightly better economy its about a game and the game is here for fun.. not to be a massive grind fest which this game is turning more and more into and this is just the tip of the ice berg because game is sooooo broken and we only play this game because there is nothing else like it in the world and ccp abuse this big time and most of us dont even see it"
"does it really though? i'd be interested how much newer players can make in a bc in the non sanctum / havens.personally started out my null sec life belt ratting in a harbinger in npc space. we had plenty of visitors who we'd trap in the pocket and kill whenever possible to encourage them not to come back or linger too long.if i'd of had anoms available i'd have made more, but i never had problems replacing ships especially since i'd run those drone anoms that no one else wanted, collect the mins and build my own bcs... and when i got lucky and got a hauler spawn i'd store those up to have enough to build my own bs.personally i think something has been lost due to players expecting their cash ticks that they then spend on goods imported from jita."
"i think you have a good point here. while i think the anom nerf was poorly handled, i think the raw imput of isk into the economy was a bad thing. i used to semi-afk rat on an alt in a -0.07 system and made 30m+ isk/hr while pvp'ing on my main. i didn't have to compete much for anoms, and when i did lose the occasional dominix, it was cheap to replace. now i rat for 15m/hr or mission for 10m/hr + loot&lp. i think the original dominion upgrades where poorly thought out and should have focused on improving space's industrious activities. mining and building scales much better, allowing for greater system population. more people in a system, its easier for them to ship up and fight..."
"since we're opining on his post: tbqfh, i was killing 800k-1.8m triple bs spawns in 0.0 in a vexor with 3.5m sp. he doesn't have to have this **** spoon fed to him.... just go ****ing do it.-lianged: i should point out that the bc spawns were mother ****ing evil and i couldn't do those until i had maybe 5m sp and upgraded to a myrm. i should also say that this was in serpentis and guristas space. amusingly enough... right where test lives now."
"60m/hr pre-nerf juicy battleships12m/hr post-nerf crappy elite frigs and cruiserssome regions have no sanctums and even some have little to no havens. there is \"less good stuff\" to go around and its usually taken by someone else or even camped by bad guys. i'm not interested in paying for a 2nd account (l4 mission slave) so i can \"fund\" my character in null. before i could spend 20mins and easily afford a cruiser/af and now i have to spend an hour to afford the same thing. i dont have tons of time to play so when you lose a ship it hurts a lot more. people who live in good true sec regions don't feel the nerf as much compared to other regions with garbage true sec."
"the anomaly nerf is exactly what was needed. it is doing exactly what it was meant to do on two fronts. first and foremost, it is causing some destabilization in the power blocks. alliances that were nothing but buffers and cannon fodder are moving back to high sec, telling those who they were paying rent to **** off and looking with greedy eyes at different space and you can already see on various forums the friction and fighting going on over sanctums and havens. secondly it helps slow down the isk facet that was just full blown rocketing into the game.it is true new players are not making the 100+ million isk an hour like before in every system in null sec. players are having to put forth :effort: into finding other income to make up for the change. those who are putting forth said effort, are still making very good isk. those who can't adapt and still expect unlimited ship funds and to be able to dine on non-stop isk no matter what, have left for high sec where it is easier.bottom line is the money is there and the change has separated the ones with initiative from those who are lazy. all in all, a very good change to the game. this game needs more changes like these to create more conflict. after all, this is a game about blowing up internet spaceships, not everyone sitting around a camp fire singing kum ba yah and trading kitchen recipes."
"careful there, if white tree sees this post, which does not agree with the nc leadership, he will have a moderator delete it. remember, new players should be able to go straight to null sec and be able to get in motherships in a couple months. now you better take what you said back!"
"and if there's more isk in circulation, isk will be worth less. rat bounties are fixed and not adjusted for inflation, so anoms become less desirable the more they are run.wow it's almost as if eve has a free market or something"
"what???do you have any idea how many corporations are affected by grief wars? think of the amount of petitions for that category alone.war declarations need to be reformedotherwise the game should have the tag line- eve online - everybody's an *******join now"
"make em cost 1m per member in both the target and your own corp. same for alliance.say a corp with 300 people decks a corp with 20 people, the total cost to start the war is 320.000.000 !alliance a with 3250 members decks alliance b with 2521 members makes the total cost to start a war by 5.771.000.000promotes actual corp growth too."
"i like that idea. though the obvious flaw would be that members would be \"forced\" to enter their alts (maybe not even used). but i support the topics op. it is to easy for a deccing corp to have \"fun\". there is imo no balance for a corp who dont want to have a wardec, cant afford to hire mercs or is to small. their gameplay suffers in favour of the deccing corp. there should be at least a way that an alliance could pay concord not to accept a wardec for a period of time. maybe with the same approach guilliman r uses. an alliance has 100 members, concord protection is 100.000.000. that would be 5,2 billion a year. to balance it, one could say you can pay only for 26 weeks a year."
"being decced for two to three weeks doesnt constitute griefing.being permanently decced by the same people no matter what corp you are in all the time is."
"do you actually have any real data to support the \"many\" corps affected or are you are making over reaching statements based on nerd rage.yes, welcome to eve."
"the cost of war decs can be very expensive. all depends on who you war dec, how many wars active, blah blah.i think to make low sec better they should make wars active only in low sec."
"cool, then make all space lo-sec and null sec."
"+1 but don't think its enough. boost to traking needed also"
"first off a few introductory words:this is the re-incarnation of a proposal i made over a year ago, which, like most of the feedback on the new forums, got completely ignored by ccp.why are better forum tools needed for ah?assembly hall is the only formal venue there is for players to raise issues to the csm. there are other means of contacting them, but the forum offers the distinct advantage of allowing raising and discussing proposals in a public, time-independent and self-documenting fashion.despite their importance, the ah forums suffer from a series of deficiencies, offering few features to aid in the process of raising proposals, voting and finally managing them and their interaction with the csm and eventually ccp.a summary of existing problems with ah:- proposals aren't categorized in any form, while the issues raised range from the art department to game balance, to technical problems to meta-proposals like this one- similar proposals can't be grouped / duplicate proposals aren't avoided- you can't give a negative vote (you have to not vote to disapprove). as a consequence, people that post multiple times (wrongly) lower the approval rating of the proposal- pretty much only proposals on the front page get attention, so people resort to bumping thereby displacing other potentially good proposals- since the csm has a limited capacity to raise proposals/issues, even proposals with excellent approval get buried/forgotten, given enough time- once csm picked up an issue, the proposals can't be tagged as having been raised and they can't be linked to the csm wiki; the same applies after the issue has been approved/rejected by ccp.to improve these issues, we propose the following additions:- when creating proposals, offer a selection of main categories. additionally, allow adding search tags.- allow searching/filtering the forum by number of votes/approval rating/category/tags. a tag cloud would be interesting, too.- allow voting for or against a proposal, or to abstain. you could even make it more granular, like conditional/tentatively support.- on the thread overview, show the number of votes (that is not the number of posts) + the current approval rating- link your vote to a proposal, not to a specific post of yours, so you can easily change your vote if you change your mind, without having to search for the post in question to edit it- allow csm members to link a proposal thread to raised issues on the wiki. possibly give csm members limited mod powers to organize, categorize, tag, merge, etc. ah threads.- structure the proposal text input, for example 1) situation / condition, 2) issue / problem, 3) action / solution- stop locking threads after 90 days of inactivity (an idea doesn't necessarily get worse over time, and since when does ccp react in under 3 months?)- allow only one vote per account per threadi'd like to get as much support and input as possible for this proposal. it benefits all players active in ah and the csm. i will update the lists above as necessary."
"-reserved-"
"yes. kinda thought this was what we were going to be getting with the \"new and improved\" forums. instead we got bigger portraits, the ability to like individual posts (for no meaningful result), and the ability to post as anyone we want (apparently, oops)."
"mynas, you sir are a genius."
"lol... when used for quick intraregion travel, jb's seem tactically awesome/reasonable. when used for quick interregion travel, jb's seem strategically op and unreasonable."
"ok well i'm not going to reply to that ****e troll that goon guy posted but its good to see some people taking it seriously and recognising that jump bridges in their current format need to change. how about moving jump bridges off pos's so it still allows for fast travel and the tactical advantage of jumping around gangs but makes people vulnerably again.i realise the majority of people in sov holding alliances will be totally against this because they like having their totally safe way of travel and are opposed to being shot."
"we took the threat seriously, that's why we voted in the current csm. we don't take these suggestions seriously though. sorry."
"notice everyone opposed to jb removal is in the nc how curious. jb as they are only serve to ruin pvp via disuse of gates and rapid forming of blobs.supported."
"notice everyone in favor of it fly ~elite wulfpax~ how curious."
"pretty sure drone regions coalition isn't in the nc, nor is the goon cluster, nor are the alliances in the south. however, you will notice that sov holding alliance members, in general, support this because they actually want to get something useful out of all the isk, time, and effort they put into obtaining and holding sov.further, i'm starting to notice the characters complaining about the existence of bridges seem to be, in large part, alts. if you feel the need to bring out your alts to strengthen your position, then you already realize you hold an extreme minority opinion."
"i'm not in the nc and wouldn't like them removed or even nerfed to heavily - people would switch to titan bridging as the norm to compensate. however a bit of tweaking could make the nullsec landscape more interesting, or in ****er-speak, 'dynamic'.tie jbs to planets. have dust mercs able to mess with them in some way.have them limited to one or two specific planet types such as ice, oceanic, storm. something relatively uncommon. many systems can't have a single jb, a bunch have one (where you'd want a neighbouring system to also have one), a rare precious few have two or more and become shiny places. i saw one 0.0 system with 4 ice planets browsing quickly, a few with 3. this will differentiate space more separately from truesec or moons, particularly empire entrances - for example in provi kbp has an ice, y-mp does not, while with oceanic the reverse is true. a change like this introduces some more scope for conflict and new targets during invasion but doesn't force it on the sandbox.jb interdiction would be a bit easier in that a wide range of gang makeups could do it effectively rather than a select few, but the networks aren't exactly 100% safe currently so no game-changer. if anything 3 and 4 bridge systems may become well populated, guarded and safer.i also like the suggestion of planet characteristics having an effect rather than just planet type. it's a bit more opaque though and possibly harder to code - are they anything other than superficial values code-wise? alternatively different planet-types could have different effects on the jb, such as reduced fuel usage from plasma pairs, increased range on ice pairs, ocean jbs being able to transport (super)capitals but having a cooldown or something. however without restricting alliances to picking and choosing one of such types you'd get wide proliferation again. perhaps racial jb variants could do the same trick?tl;dr jump bridges can be changed to make the game more interesting but outright nerfbatting or removing wouldn't solve anything."
"i wasn't trolling .. i was absolutely serious. you consider the biggest advantage the territorial powers have to be their invulnerable jump bridge networks (though you seemingly ignor the likes of burn eden who simply destroy jump bridges at will when they are inconvenient to them and to drive conflict). we consider the biggest advantage the pirate alliances have to be their invulnerable npc stations. we are looking for some give and take here. you nerf our abilities permanently .. we are looking to be able to nerf yours temporarily on the few days a year we are organized enough to bring the fight to you. the mechanics compromise was serious too .. pick a number of bridges from empire to the furthest reaches of space and we have something to talk about .. compromise by giving us the ability to take unused \"pirate sov\" constellations to fill in the gaps and we'll be more than happy to discuss it. the art of negotiation is greatly enhanced by putting yourself in the other side's shoes and looking for what they would settle for.if you are not trolling, ignore the likes of white tree, and engage with us. if you are trolling, then he is right about you. you say move the bridges off pos. definitely not going to reject that out of hand .. trade it off for .. say .. cloaks using fuel and balanced against ship class and ship mass? and you could probably have a agreement on that in minutes."
"i like this guy, he brings up some good points.and i agree, if people want it nerfed, then have it at some kind of compromise. if you are too damn lazy to make the effort, then don't have ccp cater to your laziness. get some ships and blow the jb up. as for pos bashing being boring, well too bad. it's the same way it's been since the start. dreads already have such little use now it's pathetic. as for why the jbs should stay. like mynas was saying, you want to nerf sov alliances, yet do nothing to alliances/corps that stay in npc space. there has to be some benefit in being in a sov alliance. ccp already killed 70% of desired null space. get rid of jbs and there will be no point in claiming sov. then there wouldn't be any need for capitals because no one would be fighting over systems. you just want to keep on killing null for your own damn benefit and not thinking about it for everyone else."
"i would think the trade off should be related to the mechanic under review... so including a discussion of cloaks in general is meh... potential trade-offs:jb gate cloak... when loading grid on the other side of a jb, you get a 30-60s cloak as well as a jb activation effect (although i'm not sure this is easily programmed). increased jb hp w/ perhaps a reinforce mode to allow saving. decreased jb fuel use.increased fuel capacity. (the reason i keep linking them to the ihub is that the ihub is an alliance/corp asset that could easily be retrofitted with a fuel bay, and they already have a configuration screen that could be updated for inclusion of jb operations). your ideas on incapping services at npc stations is worth of discussion, but not applicable to this thread. same goes for multiple outposts/system, reducing npc space, and the like. 10-15, including gate travel (which i think it roughly is atm). i would prefer it if jb's range wouldn't allow interregion travel (which is currently the case often)."
"\"i think you missed the subtle point that it wouldn't even be newsworthy (*cough*npr*cough*)\"- npr has over 20 million listeners a week. also, if news organizations like cnn and the new york times are running articles on their front page about a man who is only drinking beer for lent or how much j.lo's buttocks is insured for i'm not really sure there's much room for you to speculate what would and wouldn't be \"newsworthy\".\"peace? peace!i hate the word.as i hate hell, all montagues, and thee.\"- and there are his dying words to consider, \"a curse on both your houses\". it's funny that you would quote from a play which ends with the two houses coming together and vowing a lasting peace. once they have a full understanding of the situation they are able to put the past behind them - the true cost of war has finally been revieled to them, and the price they have paid, in blood, was a steep one.\"eve online's 24 hour peace rally was undermined yesterday as a coalition of x, y, and z alliances moved significant invasion forces under the cover of a universe-wide ceasefire. when the ceasefire ended, the epic clash of forces promised to be the most destructive battle in the history of eve... (had the node not crashed)!\"- and i would probably be in one of those fleets, dropping cynos, alpha striking you, and screaming \"gud fite\" in local. people playing the game would not undermine the gesture or cheapen the message. it could be amazing publicity for a game which most of us feel ranks far above the rest. it could be a fluff piece on npr at 3am. it could be the most boring day of eve since the servers were down for two days. we could also make sure the world knows we're doing it, make it a big deal. the squeeky wheel gets the oil, and as long as we're playing with hypothetical, speculative situations...2-6 weeks later: the server population of eve online has grown significantly since their in-game demonstration of peace caught the eyes of people world wide. (blah blah blah, rest of article) ccp, creators of eve online, have commented that with the massive increase in subscriptions, and therefor revenue, they hope to expand their developmental team, upgrade hardware, and continue to find ways to reduce latency issues.\"you're arguements are well thought out but based on false assumptions, in the end we as humans are animals. human children exhibit the same characteristics as puppies and kittens, that is not just by chance.\"- in the beginning, we were animals. in the end (meaning the end of humanity) we'll have been one of few (if not the only) creatures in our galaxy to become self aware, create culture and art, and look beyond ourselves. i'm not sure what characteristics you're referring to - puppies, kittens, and babies are all very cute and make me go \"awww\". i'm sure you mean to suggest that human children exhibit the same self-preserving, animalistic characteristics. i agree, they do, but they're also not the ones in charge. when they gauge the intelligence of another animal, scientist will remark that x-animal has the cognitive ability of a human toddler (10-23 months old). now flip it around - human toddlers have the cognitive ability of an animal that eats it's own poop and pees itself when you turn on the vacuum. compared to most other mammals, a human baby's brain is greatly underdeveloped at birth (both in a cognitive sense and in reference to motor skills) - but the fact is that it will develop beyond that stage, unlike our furrier friends."
"i dont know about you guys but i play this game so i dont have to kill people in real life. also i thought this guy was hardcore trolling until i saw how much time he as actually put into this thread. forum warrior ftw, changing pirates into carebears one by one through the power of hugs by day, self-rightous grammar ****i by night."
"\"to attain the peace that you want you need to eliminate the drive to better yourself in all humans around the world. because there is always a winner and a loser, conflict/competition of all people would have to be stopped, and the status quo enforced rigorously. i don't know about you, but that is a world i don't want to live in, i'd rather go to war than promote a world where nothing changes.\"- humans have been at war their entire existance, we already live in your nightmare where nothing changes. the way i read your comment suggest to me that you think that bettering yourself is done by squashing other people under your boot. conflict and competition will always be, and there will always be plenty of forums for them. case in point, the very game which has brought us all together. i'd just rather those forums of conflict and competition not be the streets and playgrounds of our neighborhoods, or anyone elses. but i digress. the point is 24 hours of peace in game to show the world that we can cooperate and coexist. i'm not so naive that i think everyone around the world will drop their weapons and start singing kumbaya because we didn't pop each other for a day. when people host demonstrations, it's to bring awareness, not because they think they're going to change the entire world in a day.\"you seem the philosophical type, read into bhuddist and taoists texts, they both promote peace, but they also understand that a balance must occur. they accept war but do not promote it, i suggest you do the same.\"- i have read some, and i also love traditional japanese history and culture as well as samurai ideology - which adopted many of buddha's teachings. in bhuddism, it is not so much that a balance must occur as people must realize that suffering exists all around us and that there will always be suffering so long as we crave for things. i realize you can apply that to my \"craving\" for a more peaceful world, but it also means no more craving your neighbor's lawn mower, or your brother's wife, or your boss' lake side house. the idea is that by only taking and using what you need to survive, there will be less suffereing in the world, people will be happier because they won't always been in a state of wanting which cannot be fulfilled. i accept war as a part of our existance, but it is my personal feeling that if i did not try to change it, i would be promoting it.it is not all war which i am opposed to. perhaps it would be better phrased as \"senseless conflicts which perpetuate hatred, violence, bigotry, and inequality\". i support the soldiers who fight to erraticate these things, to stablize regions which have fallen into disarry, because stability is required to progress."
"1. news flash: there is peace, even in this pvp game, the peace between players who r too scared to fight one another if even the slightest risk is involved and so they blue each other and only settle for newbies and other easy ganks. there's peace between players and each other's alts, between players in blobs, between corps in alliances, and even between alliances in coalitions.2. u just want a different degree of peace and u're intolerant of anything less since u somehow still call the constant blueing that is eve \"warmongering\". what's next? u're gonna complain about killing rats? because they're just as artificial as the player characters who kill them.3. u really want a wow clone, go back to wow and roll on a pve server; be warned, players still kill npcs there so maybe that game's not for u either...or any game that has any degree of conflict whatsoever.4. better yet, step away from the screen--notice your \"artificial\" part? yeah, it's all make-believe. u want to make the world a \"better place\", start with the world, not in one individual make-believe space game."
"eve is real though right?!?!"
"supported - hating this fittings thing. can't save or access any fittings. even clearing my fittings out and resetting settings, clearing cache, you name it.. it still does not work."
"mittani said in one of his posts on fhc that players have two basic opinions of ccp: \"ccp is incompetent\" and \"ccp ignores old features\". shc vets will know this as :lolccp: and :awesome:you can fix a lot of stuff, but it's hard to cure sloth and basic incompetence."
"i have always felt i was rather aggressive with my ship fittings but never exceeded thirty or so. after i lost mine twice to patches i got the message, that using full fits is sub-optimal while identifying common bits and excluding others allows for one template to be used for a whole range of fits .. also works well when specific stocks run out or i want to change riggings.ccp is under no obligation to run every little thing through sisi or the forums and i can easily see how an arbitrary limit of 50 could seem sufficient.besides, software job security hinges on intentionally creating issues that requires additional hours to sort out"
"i no longer have ship fittings for polaris, wraith, exotic dancer, and cattle.aside from that, i'm having fun messing with my caldari mission runner friends rapidly dropping isk/hour rate that they bragged so much about. now they have to work up another faction or deal with being jammed fifteen minutes out of twenty and fighting the rest of the five.no really, that whole group was smug scumbags."
"you live in the land where a seller can change a product to the detriment of the buyer and not expect anger from the buyer?"
"nope. but since it is mainly cosmetic a complaint merely means that seller must take appropriate steps to rectify situation within an acceptable time frame.does not mean that i automatically get the right to participate in sellers r&d efforts or get to influence product strategies.consumer law is gospel here in the eu :d"
"unerf it.moving back to hi-sec is the better option for our small casual 14 man corp, than trying to live in tru-sec anymore.i hope there are changes on the cards for currently... it's looking very bleak."
"well space should have different value on that i agree with ccp but the way they have gone about it is just wrong.so instad just flaming them to take it back etc here a sugguestion as to how to change it.each system with military 5 gets 2 havens 1 sanctum base.should the system have a station +1 haven +1 sanctum.and now the catch.. bountys in anomalies will depend on sec status right now for the most part lowest bounty(bs) in sanctum is 9xxk max 1,2m .. so this would mean that in 0.00 to 0.2 you get max bounty bs of about 600k to 950k, 0.3-0.4 800k to 1.25m.. 0.5-0.6 950k to 1.4m, 0.7-0.8 1.1m to 1.6m, 0.9-1.0 1.2m to 1.8mthis would be a boost instad of a nerf but it would still make space different."
"un nerf.please dont make huge changes like this without consulting... someone. it seems like no thought was given and changes were made."
"yes, this please.and on the note of bug reports, they need to be followed up better. as a recent example, i opened a report about the character creator crashing my os. in the first few days i received a few responses asking me for log info and other data. i provided all that was needed and i haven't heard back since. it's been in since 4/8. it's frustrating that a major bug like this isn't getting more attention (before the patch, the creator worked just fine for me...after the most recent patch, it's broken...i'm sure i can't be the only one)."
"hating this idea with the white hot heat of a million suns. much as it was flamed the first time something like this was suggested.what was it? two threads, each with over 20 pages of flame against the idea? i remember there being some creative suggestions for the demise of the ccp staff member who suggested it, too. poor guy. whatever happened to him? oh, yeah.he got promoted. im fairly certain it wasnt for this idea, though."
"110 pages on the one. pretty epic threadnought."
"how about1) ban use of fbs in low sec2) introduce a siege-like mechanism for scs required to deploy fbs"
"and then still you havent fixed the core of the problem, scs are ridiculously overpowered. making them not overpowered in low sec and fixing them in a position for a couple of minutes to be overpowered doesnt remove the actual problem that they are overpowered."
"want to make dreadnoughts effective in pvp vs. supercarriers? add two new modules:[a] capital warp disruptor, with scs not immune to it.[b] propulsion-inhibitor sphere. much like an interdiction sphere, but it reduces all propulsion within 30km of the dreadnought by 75%. can only be used in siege mode."
"any idea how long 1 sc with fb needs to kill a sieging dread ?i think it was somewhere around 30-60 sec"
"there has been two major changes to scs since then i believe, first making them pos ornaments and the other making them opness-on-a-stick.so they have tried, but back then they made the mistake of running it through the maggot farm (ie. us) first and the emo-rage when e-peen is on the block has always been significant makes no sense that they can't control anything themselves though, surely one flight is manageable support on the slowing down and increasing of signature on f.bombers and to a lesser extent fighters ..ideally i'd want capitals to be as helpless as drunk puppies when venturing out without support and \"let the worlds tremble\" when with.while limiting their anti-structure ability sounds good on paper, it will make them purely anti-capitals which risks mothballing them again .. so they'd need a secondary function.perhaps gang-bonuses in the same vein as that of titans or ability to drag x amount of ships with them when they jump."
"any idea of how long it would take a battlecruiser to kill an interdictor? you still bring them, though, don't you?it would be idiotic to propose buffing the dreadnought to the point where it could stand toe-to-toe with a sc. the idea is to give the dreadnought a reason to be used in the fight and to make it so the dread's presence helps the rest of the fleet."
"true but there is a difference in prize between an interdictor and a dread"
"and a sc is around 10x the cost of a dread. add to it that because it costs so much, you would be an idiot to put non-faction modules on it. add to that insurance.huge difference."
"true but the role for a sc (as i see it) is to kill capital shipsnot to kill sub-capital ships by the dozensthe fact that a sc can kill off anything except more sc/titans is where the problem isor do i have it wrong ?"
"fighters/bombers should have their own bay and the normal drone bay should be more constricting. i shouldn't be able to carry 100+ medium drones (on top of a full compliment of fighters and bombers) in my sc and throw them 20 at a time at an enemy. i agree. fighters should still kill bss or they would be useless drones.however, the other big problem with an sc is that a dread is worthless in comparison. as in not even worth the 1/10 price comparatively. if you can save up the 1.5b, you should just keep saving. a dread provides no benefit to the player that owns it, while an sc can. a dread is a one-dimensional ship that is outclassed by the multi-dimensional sc. zero incentive to train for or own a dread. i don't blame scs for that. i blame dreads having existed since, what, 2004(?) with almost no change (in fact, they've been nerfed at least once). it comes as no surprise that they have become obsolete."
"recently gun and ammo module icons got a size indicator which indicated whether they were small, medium or large sized. this shows up as a 's', 'm' or 'l' respectively on the module icon.can we have this on other types of modules such as energy vampires and energy destabilizers in particular? it will also be of great use on repair and remote repair modules."
"even if uberblobs continued to use in-game means to identify friend from foe with a huge isk fee, i think you'd just see a new grunt position in alliances open up: the set-everybody-neutral-an-hour-before-the-bill-comes-guy. and after the bill is issued with no blues, set-everybody-neutral-guy becomes set-everybody-blue-again-guy."
"this is like cold medicine. we are talking about solutions to a symptom as opposed to the actual disease. the actual problem is that the idea of taking sov requires that an alliance destroy another alliances tcu and place one of their own. because the defender can have anyone come in and defend their tcu and destroy the invaders is the reason why a small allaince cannot take a single system from a coalition no matter how worthless. this is because to allievate the problem of tz warfare we have reinforcement timers which is a cute way of saying; game paused, batphone your blues. why does sov have to boil down to sov structures in the first place because thats why everyone blobs, they cannot control how many the enemy brings to the fight so they have to get as many people on the field as they can. the longer the notice the more blues can be rallied."
"thanks for putting this up and going to the effort of getting this organised in the first place.having a listen now."
"never.also all of your credit for the greatness of the q&a session, give it to me. give it to me."
"you have to be joking, profanity and insults is 'getting talks with ccp to open up'??? i can't even follow the logic of that so i am guessing there is no use asking for stats on that lol. that is perhaps the dumbest thing i have read on the forums ever... so i guess some congrats to you are in order."
"i'm just saying your asking a bunch of people who obviously like to joke around to be serious. one more thing, have you seen how ccp presents themselves? i'm sure they goof around and do the same things this csm does around the office. any company that holds a fanfest where socialbility and alcohol are the rules of the day, can sit down a be childish for a few hours while talking about issues that could possibly make the game better."
"if profanity is being used as an emotive tag because of the passionate believe held in the opinion it's not a bad thing, as long as the major point comes across and the profanity and goofiness doesn't drown that out then it's all good.even devs want to kick back and relax occasionally even when it comes to serious business that is the csm.when it comes to the first meeting in iceland though they should temper the profanity and use it when it's absolutely required. call out bs when you see it, but do it with a valid and weighty argument as to why you think it's bs.the mittani's voice is good and he knows it, so he uses it as often as possible."
"in before its internet spaceships and pixels an youre freaking out over cussing"
"that works, but the op's problem was 'where the frack is my ore in all this junk?!', rather than 'what crystals i brought?', which i can understand. it can get annoying if you plan on stripping a belt. papaercut issue, right?"
"dude!!! that is soooo not funny."
"wow. you really went to the effort of necro'ing this thread for that pile of ****?good job bro"
"well reading all this has given me a headache. sorry i can't pay any more attention to it. goon supporters or whoever fire at me if you will - this is a huge mess and a joke - and a year of this no one else will pay attention either."
"i am not disputing that certain conversations and the topics contained within will be under nda obligations. i am more concerned that the perception of \"official\" meetings which are not covered by the nda will fall through the cracks and not be documented, resulting in a lack of both transparency and community engagement. as i mentioned before, the community has come to expect a certain level of disclosure as part of being kept in the \"loop\". meissa's further explanation about using different methods to handle \"day to day\" business pretty much ties this one up in a nice package and addresses the concern. i think we can move on from that point.what i hear you saying is that raising concerns about how csm6 is run/will operate is somehow a manifestation of conspiracy theories based on in-game stuff? in other words, you're telling us that our concerns are not valid and that we're just scared because \"oooh evil <insert block here> is in power, run for your lives!\". i don't believe this is fair, accurate nor profesional; it says that we're too insignificant to put aside other issues and focus on bigger concerns. how arrogant.awesome! what kind of steps? not asking for a detailed list but even a high-level overview. we can see things like fireside being a huge success. anything else that has already been achieved, even in the short time span since official election to csm6? i would believe it reasonable to assume we can expect further awesomeness in the near future; we do after all have to give you all time ;)tough call here; we know there's always going to be someone who will disagree just for the sake of disagreement and to cause chaos. that said, by what guidelines does csm6 decide what is legitimate concern/constructive criticism and what is just \"spam\"? combined with the commentary about \"backlash\", i'm not exactly convinced nor sold on supporting the efforts of csm6. if what we're going to have is a term of council that arbitrarily decides what is and is not \"legitimate\", we might as well just call it a day now. it's easily negated by developing a few key deliverables or achievements to complete before the term is up; we saw such efforts by csm5 with the ccp deliverables, as well as csm deliverables. we started treating csm as project management, rather than free trips to iceland. i'm hoping we see more of that, and not just throwing things into the can because it's \"some conspiracy theorist again\". (granted, we're going to have fluff that belongs in the trash, even into csm 50,000) ...@ meissa: thanks for your summary and deeper explanation; well done."
"this will be the best csm yet. sean is a great choice for vice-secretary.ps. meissa, update your signature to this one."
"csm5 was bad, fixing minor things/voting in that method is bad (im sure that they are included under these many blankets)"
"supported!"
"stating my accumulated observations of eve ships.ship and color options that appeal to females. females being different than gay men.covert cloaks for covert bs. they then might actually be what they are supposed to be.carriers that carry/bridge squads. supercarriers that carry/bridge wings. dreads that knock the crap out of things, big and small. then they might actually be what they are supposed to be.a sensor damp gallente bs platform.rethink the eos. right now they are basically scorpion buffs which seems to be a bit cross-purpose with other gallente ships... not sure but they need some love as a command ship and the boosts it provides.buff the ew frigs. range and lock boosts might be in order.find good fleet options for caldari and gallente ships. a rail buff might solve this issue.generally going through each ship and each race and finding a good balance from one race to another. obviously there are some roles which are hard to compare but finding a good useful balance between at least all the different races of ships. if one ship is not really a dangler and not used or exceptional in an area then it should be be buffed or altered to give it a role comparible in usefulness to the other races of ships. every balance cycle should the least used ships in the game, statistically.edit: oh and t3 frigates. someone forgot them."
"sup vile, how's life treating you?anyway, simple:the retribution and coercer each have but a single mid slot.yea, no i'm totally serious.no, really, i have no idea what they thought we'd do.yea, i agree, totally gay.anyway, tell them this for me: its dumb, stop being dumb, every combat ship in eve without a jump drive needs a minimum two freaking midslots to be viable in a fight, one for propulsion, one for tackle.theres always been this little gaggle of people who are like \"no its cool they fill a role nicely\".no, they don't, there is no role that ship can fill that every other ship in the game including the rifter can't fill better.also gallente suck, do something about it instead of nodding along with us."
"about dread... on top of regular cannons, a dread should get siege cannon/module, which works in unique manner for every type of dreadnaught.first, dreads become anti-blob tool, second dreads become anti-tanking solution.amarr dreadnaughts get beam cannon effect, laser damage from dreads is focused to form one beam, which cumulates the damage, 1 weapon 1x dmg, 2 weapons - 2x dmg, 3 - 4x dmg, 4 - 8x dmg. this approach allows focus fire on heavily tanked targets, greatly multiplying the damage output on heavily armored, high hit point objects. smaller targets get significant tanking bonuses, due to signature and movement, example a pos is a perfect traget, carrier gets 90% vulnerability, battleship gets 30% vulnerability, frigate gets 0,1% vulnerability.gallente dreadnaughts get shock wave generator - area of effect weapons, which limit blobbing and spider tanking, and encourage targets to scatter and attack from different positions, instead of linear shootout. shockwave have 98% emp damage, 2% heat damage, which mainly weakens the shields, but damages armor only at a slow rate. shockwave cannons, have 30 km blast radius and slow, but potent shock wave bursts, which allows still leaves enemy a chance.caldari get extra potent long range rail guns, with very high alpha damage, very slow reload time. for breaking tank.minmatar get mid range potent explosive cannons, with mild aoe effect, shrapnel damage which renders small craft very vulnerable and can get rid of support fleet in reasonable time, unless enemy employs hit and run tactics. aoe effect is minor and does not damage heavy armor, but unlike anti-armor weapons, has no damage reduction vs size of an object, only its speed and range. micro explosive pieces break down very fast and discourage blobbing of low - medium armor targets. drones die after 2-3 volleys, interceptors get a chance to escape as their 1500 ehp can be sufficient to initiate evasive maneuvers, a fast moving interceptor never gets hit very hard as it is able to outrun the explosion cloud."
"i thought it was the position of the csm that the minutiae of game balancing wasn't their concern?that said ccp probably has no idea what makes certain ships unpopular and in trying to buff them will manage to **** it up completely so i guess csm input is needed.the problem with the gallente ships themselves is that, while they're supposed to be very close range, they don't have the speed or acceleration to get there in comparison to minmatar ships, which have a more flexible engagement range. a competently-piloted 'cane, for example, can kite at point range with barrage or crash into someone and shove 700 dps down their throat with fusion or emp. that said it's always impressive when someone with a deimos manages to gank an idiot in a vaga that let himself get into scram range, but \"ganking idiots who don't know how the game works\" isn't really a viable niche for an entire race of ships.we talked about this on kugu and more or less agreed the best buff to gallente would involve:- an across-the-board reduction of inertial modifier. having gallente ships accelerate extremely fast but not have a very high top speed would augment their supposed role of close-range dps very well. they'd have the acceleration to clear, say, 10-15km from a standstill very quickly, but not the speed to dictate range in any sort of extended fight, as a minmatar ship would.- increase in blaster tracking. the dps advantage of blasters is more-or-less negated by the reality that, without a 90% web, they have some trouble tracking within their ideal range.- increase in the grid cost of top-tier autocannons. gallente, being primarily small gang or solo oriented-ships (unless drone/blaster boats have some fleet role i haven't heard of), find most of their competition in minmatar, and at the moment autocannon fitting is pretty broken. blasters do more dps on paper, yeah, but you're almost never able to fit a tank and neutrons at the same time. a thorax, for example, after fitting an 800 plate and an mwd, can't even fit a full rack of ions without downgrading one to an electron. a rupture can do the same with 425s and two utility highs. virtually all cruiser and battlecruiser hulls can fit top-tier autocannons with no issue due to their disproportionately low fitting cost. even a vagabond, which makes special mention of its low grid, can fit 2 t2 lses, a y-t, and 425s with no fitting mods save a pg-4. i've literally never seen someone fit dual 425s to a minmatar battleship, since the only reason to do so would be for the extra tracking.other balance issues:- nearly half of the navy faction cruisers are awful and unused. the navy exequror, osprey and scythe are terrible. it really shouldn't take long to figure out why if you just compare them to t1 cruisers.- black ops need more jump range, as was mentioned, but moreover i think their role in combat needs to be overhauled completely. specifically, they should be the battleship-sized counterpart to force recons. the sin should have a point range bonus, the panther should have a web range bonus, etc. along with an overhaul of their offensive systems and a general increase in speed and maneuverability to complement their role, because right now they are absolute pigs. an increase in range would be nice but they'd still be boring to fly if they're basically inferior versions of t1 bs.- the cerb and the eagle are awful. cerb needs a role (sniping missile boat is hilariously bad for obvious reasons) and the eagle needs a general buff to dps to make it competitive with the zealot and the muninn."
"its not.however, things like this thread are useful ammunition for going to ccp and saying hey dudes look at this massive list of horribly broken ships, you guys really should assign a dev/team to work on ship balance full time, which is the underlying objective behind this thread."
"the tier system.by getting rid of this, it would produce a huge increase in the number of viable hulls. that and there are a fair few t1 ships that could just use a buff, so i'll lump them in as well.i obviously haven't covered every problem ship here, but the ones that stand out the most to me as fixes that'd be fairly straightforward:ferox - extra mid.omen - more grid. seriously. being unable to fit focused medium pulses and an 800mm plate/mwd at max skills is utterly ridiculous.caracal - more grid. should be able to mount hams or at least hmls and an lse with reasonable skills. a third low is debatable, but would bring it up to par with the moa in slot amount and help compensate for the tiny drone bay and relatively low dps this ship has.maller - 25m3 drone bay would be an excellent start. i'm cautious about suggesting a damage bonus in place of cap use because it'd be easy to unbalance this. a lot of people have suggested hams for this ship as well, but i'm trying to keep the suggestions fairly simple/easy to implement.thorax - more grid. having to mount the lowest tier guns just to squeeze on a measely 800mm plate without fitting mods is ridiculous, and acr rigs cost as much as the hull.stabber - another mid, up its natural speed, and change the speed bonus to a falloff bonus. right now the rupture does basically everything better. all tier 1 frigates - up their hp, give all of them at least 2 lows with a varying number of mids, and up their fitting stats a bit. let them be the lightest, fastest tacklers of the t1 frigate lineup rather than just newbie rubbish you ditch after the first few tutorial missions.kestrel, incursus, inquisitor - distribute an extra slot to each, low to gallente and amarr and mid to caldari.breacher - this deserves a special mention, for having the downright hilarious 4/2/2 slot layout. give it an extra low and mid.caldari navy hookbill - dear ccp. during the dev meeting in which you decided a 5 mid missile frigate should have 206 cpu max skilled, how drunk were you?give the hookbill at least another 30-40 cpu, so it doesn't have to resort to laughable meta levels across the entire ship just to fit.ok, so it's a lot of requests, but my view is just that half the ships in the game being made pretty much obsolete is not fun for anyone. variety ftw?(and for anyone preparing to point out how much i missed - just because i didn't mention something doesn't mean i think it's fine, just that i have no easily implemented suggestions.)edit: more!eagle - needs more grid. it requires 2 fitting mods where the other sniper hacs need 1 or less. this might go some of the way to fixing this joke of a ship but until rails are sorted i doubt we'll see many more of them.cerberus - needs a bit more cpu and about 15% more power grid. a hac should not have fitting issues this bad.cruise missiles - significantly increase flight speed at the cost of flight time. no weapon should be relegated to pve simply for being so broken in pvp."
"i think this is the only idea i've read so far that is remotely interesting. make grav sites into super mineral extracting/production zones. how this will be done, i don't know, (as the csm has repeatedly said, ccp does not want specifics and micro level suggestions) so doing something with grav sites and thus the mineral index already in place, something could be done."
"the high sec or kinds in null, i agree suck since theirs less risk in high sec but to believe their no high sec risk is a full lie to your self. a good way to fix is bigger or just more of them or make a forth variant of the ore and let it be a 10% more density as that would be sufficient to bump it up several levels of value.and jump bridges should get longer ranges, player pays on the spot for its use, and be able to select their destination as this aids in the dream ccp has which is large fights and many ship go boom.another way to make null mining work easier and to make a better mining barge as the current ones suck"
"i guess i should probably outline it, for those that don't want to read the whole massive thing. remove all arbitrary/non-financial caps on infrastructure development in nullsec (i.e., allow for heavy concentrations of infrastructure)nerf hi-sec industrial capacity, such that highly developed areas of nullsec can at least theoretically compete or even exceed itallow for private stargate construction, enabling transit efficiency maximization (possibly paired with removal of jump bridges, if in the works anyways)lower the scale of sovereignty so that there are more claimable unitsrework the index system to better target activity incentives"
"dam that's a mighty nice summary you have their, sadly im in high sec as i finish college and well the indy in high suck, already sucks badly so more suck means less want to play or kill all high suck except training areas as much nerfing as high suck getsyou know here is a decent idea, forget death traps \"worm holes\" we should be considering making null much deeper so their will be a reson for fresh ultra dense trit out their ans such, could make it like 40 jumps out from the nearest high sec. and thus you can finialy leave high sec alone and have a end game really deep sub null sec space.so basicly have it with the sleeper ai new ores and new moon goo and bring the t3 stuff out in to the deep null secs would fix every thing"
"would be a much better world if all opinions and reality itself obeyed your every command, wouldn't it? if imports are cheap and easy then no local industry will evolve and existing industry will atrophy, look at western societies today for real world proof of this very simple truth ..bridges are a slice of the problem but irrelevant in this thread as it focuses on the bigger slice: the industrialization of null.problem is not just how to make null self-sufficient (or even an exporter) but to do so without making people want to claw their eyes out and having every five man roam break the back of ongoing operations.@op: keep the thread on topic or a moderator will. there are plenty of whine threads available for bridge pro/con and anomaly mudslinging for those so inclined."
"your understanding of forums is only matched by your understanding of null sec industry. it boils down to this: high sec supplies null sec because the cost to produce is significantly lower in high sec than null sec (risk is part of costing). decreasing risk of null sec is a bad idea. people in null don't want to mine low ends, that's why i think null needs hauler anoms."
"have you even read the thread? the whole idea is to discuss possibilities that will help wean null of the jita teat.problem now is that prices are not only rock bottom in empire, but importing it to null has the same low risk attached and takes less time than hauling goods amarr <-> jita .. in short: there is no reason why any sane person would start building in null .. even bloody supers are built by reproccing high/low-sec goods (carriers) for christs sake!and i have said as much. but if you have ever tried looting from a hauler spawn in deep null then you'd wish you picked up mining .. just as tedious but with more clicking.will be a great part of the solution, but even you can't believe that dumping a crap ton of minerals into the system solves all the problems."
"that sounds a lot like what i just said, except i was referencing comparative advantage to explain the situation.i much prefer hauler spawns to mining in null sec. muuuuuuch prefer. significantly less risk than having 5 mining alts slowly grinding on ore to just be hauling the minerals to a station. plus, who would mine low ends when there are high ends right beside them. easier to hand that task off to pveers."
"so i set up a nice fully armed death star style pos one day, and i'm wondering if you knew a good lawyer that could sue to get the 10 hours of my life back."
"why is this on page 8? to the top!...especially cuz of the captain's quarters on duality now."
"while lore makes the races and bloodlines different, with the advent of face changing, why isn't it possible for a change between races when it is already possible to change between two very different people of the same race.though having option of changing gender would make things kind of weird. ....but hey, people can do it in the 21st century, ever hear of michal jackson, or that one son of ernest hemingway"
"this represents about 90% of my complaints with eve and i have no idea why it isn't at the top of everybody's list. why does it take up to 3 seconds from when i mouse over something before i can click on it?"
"actually, if i were to choose a single thing that i would want ccp to weed out as one of their papercuts: the show-up-as-neutral bull****. **** that noise."
"ridiculous mechanic."
"hey everyone. please comment."
"congratulations for your idea being mentioned in the dev blog."
"unless ccp has stated it wont work with the current code etc. i dont see this as a bad idea. +1"
"two things.a. this is rediclous. make them bigger. the name isnt bad but there need to be serious changes to make it fit.b. make assault carriers current supercarriers into a tii version with better logistcs. this could also solve the titan problem. tii titan logistics ti damge.. tiii moble jump bridge with ok weppons.i support"
"well, the hyperion would be a much more viable boat if it hadn't been intended to replace the megathron instead of just giving the gallente a decent sniper bs. but in tiericide, one of those two would need a change, hell even before tiericide."
"gallente can use web drones to catch kiters, buff web drones."
"anyone else can use those drone too. unless you mean to buff by ship change bonus it wont help gallente the least."
"if you try to scoop drones and some of them are out of range, they should be returning by default instead of staying idle."
"1. ability to add bookmarks to your places tab from orca corp holds and in fact any sort of hold that isn't yours including cans.2. right click on bookmarks and add to places tab. no more dragging and dropping."
"about #2 why not have both ? drag and drop is a blessing in most ui, why get rid of it when you can get both ?"
"this, hardly ever mine anymore but still, how can such an annoying bug not be dealt with for years?"
"i got the same issue while fitting ships with modules in a container, after a while i had an afterburner in the container that i couldn't use. i had to log off and log back in to realize it wasn't in the container anymore. this bug is spreading"
"any news?? ccp you are heard us?? universe of cynabals and dramiels (oh wait.. +some drakes, true!)is your insidious plan??? how much the fish???"
"this issue would be solved simply by ccp accepting the csm's recommendation to create a continuous balancing role within their development teams. once that exists this would be addressed making debate on it futile. so not supported to prevent diffusion of focus from continuous balancing."
"went away on work for a week - had hoped to see a few more supports, but you know, you've just got to get the message out there!"
"i've always found clone upgrading a bit stupid, i've never forgotten to upgrade and probally never will forget... this however doesn't prevent me from thinking its kinda mental. i see no reason why clone upgrading shouldn't be automatic or have some sort of warning dialog, and i find the argument that remembering to upgrade your clone is a vital game mechanic to be more then a little fail.upgrading your clone is vital obviously, its meant to give death a cost; having to mindlessly do something so incredibly obvious as upgrading your clone when you die is easy, yes, but that doesn't detract from how stupid it is to have a mechanic with which the drunk and stupid may hurt themselves (as amusing as that may be) for no other reason then neglecting to click a few buttons that no reasonable person would ever decided not to. i don't see how the way it is its much any different then if you were required to remember to hold ctrl-shift-alt and type waffles every hour or be disconnected for all the meaningful decision-making it brings to the game. if you think it does bring meaningful decision-making to the game, frankly, you're an idiot.if eve were an fps game this mechanic would be similar to spawning you right infront of a pit in which you can fall to your death. everyone knows to not take a step forward and jump to your death (lolfail), but it doesn't make the situation any less idiotic.despite all that, this op is fail."
"just like learning skills..."
"the most precious thing in this game is skillpoints, we wait, wait and wait again some more to get skills and you can finally get into the best ship fit with the best equipment after 300$ in subscription fee. then they can take it away from you. i don't like it neither. i can live with losing isk that represents many hours of gameplay, but resetting your skillpoints to 1 month ago, this has to change.bottom line, skillpoints are directly linked to real life money by subscription feesisk is directly linked to time played and indirectly linked to real life money through plexi say, do not mess with the direct link to my bank account"
"they cannot take anything away from you. only your own stupidity/forgetfulness can take skill points away from you.i don't support stupidity."
"yes...yes it is.with great sp comes great responsibilities. chief among them, learning what you should have learned the first day of eve: never undock before you check your medclone."
"the only time it could possibly be unfair to lose sp when you go pop is if you didn't have the funds to buy another clone. but if that happened, you should quit now anyway."
"i'd support this if the op wasn't such a horrible tool."
"lost sp tears are best tears."
"your not being trolled, people think your a troll for a few reasons.this topic has been posted everytime someone looses sp.your acting like a babey who lost his bottle.you think justifying everything will win people over.you lost sp man up get over it, this is eve not wow and the only time you get sp back if your account gets hacked afaik.however i will support this because you have really nice hair"
"and here i was hoping to find more lovely responses from the op.oh well."
"i think it is very fair yes. :)"
"so you're saying that hyper inflation is ok?despite the fact that there are some fixed costs / isk sinks which would become more and more meaningless.i could say that since there will be less isk, then prices will be less so the anomaly changes will have no effect since the market will adjust to players having less isk so who can complain. but that would be me distorting the truth to match my agenda just like the csm members who started this thread."
"a lot of items which come from the lp store such as modules and ammo are high risk items which are routinely destroyed in combat. or are to be used as a resource. the isk is removed from the market and the demand is high so lp blitzing is relatively stable as an income source."
"this is completely untrue.for any item an increase in supply will result in a decrease in price. as a very good example lp increased in value after large quantities of courier bots were banned and the amount of lp in circulation decreased.i have to say i'm really very concerned that you cannot understand this, especially since the results are already showing up on the market.personally i expect lp items to continue to decrease in value for a while until players have stabilised other areas of income at which point they will recover noticeably but not to the levels they were before the anomaly nerf was announced."
"buh? lp and isk in the form of faction ammo isn't used and consequently removed from the market/game? wot? i'm very concerned you cannot understand this. actually, i'm not, but it does make you look silly."
"i didn't say it wasn't constantly used.the amount being used is already being supplied so where exactly is all this extra ammo going to go? demand doesn't scale with supply, unless the surplus causes the price to decrease ( lowering the value of the lp ) stimulating people to use it more often.you do know that there aren't magical fairies buying stuff off the market?"
"the incentive to go out to null sec has gone. we've seen a recent influx of applicants who are bored of fighting for space that has to no real gain or profit for them. how that effects the bigger alliances, i don't know. probably not all that much as a lot of them have had years to develop fad wads of isk that never really filters down through the alliance. yet for a newer player venturing out to 0.0 who can't fly a fantastically fitted tengu, i can imagine it must seem rather pointless. especially (as already mentioned) how much easier and safer it is to do the same in empire."
"again, i wasn't talking about a fresh meat noobie showing up in null for the first time in their brand new hurricane, all wide eyed and bushy tailed. i was talking about experienced players who put pressure on the players holding good space. the players that dev was having fuzzy dreams about invading more valuable space because of the change. yeah, those players, corps, alliances. the up-and-coming. those are the ones who ate the nerf bat with the anom change.my complaint is how ccp handled this."
"if you'd stop with your paranoid \"not my ncsm\" stuff for just one second you'd realize that no one in this thread, much less the csm members, actually thinks there isn't any problem with the way anomalies currently work. giving out a straight cash payment for shooting rats is idiotic and shortsighted on ccp's part, but instead of changing nullsec mechanics to halt inflation they just nerfed the **** out of them so people move to highsec instead. it was a lazy, rushed, and stupid decision, like so many of ccp's. or do you actually believe that less risk should equate to greater reward?since you apparently get sexual gratification from whining about sov-holding players being somehow unfairly represented in the csm (which is hilarious) i really don't think there's any getting through to you unless you can objectively see why ccp ****ed up (hint: you can't).as an aside, and this goes to everyone who think they're goddamn warren buffet because they rmt'd 30b isk, sunk it into goods, and make money from trading: it's easy to look down your nose at those filthy nullsec plebians and go \"well if you really want to make money you gotta run six charons around empire like i do\", just as it's easy to forget the vast number of consumers and producers required to make such a venture possible, and how sensitive it is to competition."
"amusingly, this is exactly what he's trying to point out about lp conversion.-liang"
"how about the ncsm starts demonstrating that's it's non partisan rather that stating at the beginning of the thread that the only acceptable point of view is agreeing with them that it was a bad idea. i'm hardly being paranoid when it's that obvious.actually i don't think they're unfairly represented, the majority of players that didn't vote created this issue, what i do think is it's unfortunate how blinkered they're making themselves appear in that they seem willing to let the economy burn to get the anoms put back in a hideously broken state.actually most of my time in this thread has been arguing with members of test who're being completely idiotic by claiming mission rewards are magically immune to market forces. i notice that you've decided to give up on that least even if you refuse to acknowledge i was correct.loose translation = we're too lazy to use our brains, we can only cope with hitting scan and warping to the closest anomaly and we think we deserve a super carrier if we do this for a couple of months.it's really sad to see how many people want to see this great game dumbed down, what next, demand a 50m sp bonus every year as well?"
"lp conversion isn't that sensitive, at least i haven't noticed much of a change. while competition in trading/market manipulation can put you out of business, competition for lp items digs into your profit by very little, considering the vast array of items you can churn out of the lp store and the relatively elastic demand of lp goods.even when you have lots of competition, churning out the worst isk/lp items, you still make more money than anoms. a tengu running sanctums all day (which is currently impossible), makes 45-55m/hr. that same tengu efficiently blitzing l4s can pull down 100m/hr quite easily churning out faction ammo (inb4 pubbies going \"well i slowboat through missions in a golem and i only make 20m an hour\"). one of my corpmates went up to highsec in a tengu for a week, blitzed l4s for a couple hours every day, and came back to fountain with 5b from cn invulns and torps. in that same time i scanned down four constellations every day and triple-boxed every available plex, and am sitting on less than a billion in loot. now you tell me that isn't completely broken."
"if you think this is anyone's goal you are laughably deluded.no one's claiming they're immune, they are as affected by lp inflation as anoms are by isk inflation.congrats, you continue to miss my point. if everyone \"used their brains\" and did highsec tradingas only an acutely scientific and brilliant mind can operate spreadsheets and click \"autopilot\" on an obelisktrading would become vastly less profitable. every sort of business that isn't a skinner box of \"pres butan, receive isk/lp/ore\" is not only relies on those skinner boxes to exist but would utterly collapse if a significant number of people started in on trading/hauling/manufacturing etc."
"first thanks for toning it down back into civility.lp inflation balances out mission running, if to many people do it then the rewards are lowered. isk inflation puts everyone in a hamster wheel where they have to keep chasing just to stay in the same place, except for those that are benefiting from whatever is broken and causing the inflation.to an extent this just makes me want to say go back to wow i'm afraid. just as cross training is important incase your favourite ships get nerfed being flexible in the way you make isk is important. those who diversify and don't put all their eggs in one basket should expect to reap the rewards."
"those causing the inflation buy ships and modules, and are as hurt by inflation as anyone else. a manufacturer, for example, would be relatively unaffected, as their variable costs would increase alongside the prices of their goods, as both are affected by inflation.either way no-one's arguing that anom upgrades were a bad idea and too much of an isk faucet, the problem is ccp's \"addressing\" the issue fails to do so threefold:1. anom rewards are still in the form of isk bounties, which was the problem to begin with. converting some of the rewards to, say, concord lp, having rewards be primarily drop-based, or increasing the currently-awful rate of complex spawning would help reduce inflation while keeping nullsec profitable.2. risk becomes even more inversely proportionate to reward, which is the opposite of what it should be, obviously. no matter how you slice it, especially for the casual, one-account player that logs in a few hours a week to rat up some drakes or something, highsec is better, more consistent, and safer money than nullsec, even taking into account lp depreciation.3. while the stated goal of the change was to make nullsec less homogenous, with the intended effect of having players in low-value nullsec fight for high-value nullsec, all of nullsec is currently so valueless (as far as ratting goes) that instead of people moving from one nullsec region to another, they're just moving from nullsec to highsec.it's this complete and utter failure of ccp greyscale to understand how this terrible game even works that ****es people off the most, and they fact that he didn't think to go to the csm for better ideas.preaching to the choir, between my alts i've done just about anything that can be done to make money and more-or-less had success at it, after a year of highsec trading i got burnt out having to update orders twice a day and wanted to relax and make money independent of time obligations for school and work.regardless none of that applies to this argument because the point still stands that nullsec is crap money for high risk while highsec is good money for low risk."
"does nobody think this isn't a 'cheat' to the sec status system? if you think that people should not be able to suicide gank others without some sec penalty, then in theory you should be in support of this proposal. basically pirates who earn their hard earned cash ganking should be allowed to use that money to increase their ganking skills. but people who have squeaky clean day jobs earning cash on the right side of the law should not be able to just dump that cash to an alt who ganks. its just cheating the sec status system. if you break the concord laws and gank, then you need to get a sec penalty. money laundering and free transfers allows people to commit crimes without paying any sec penalty.if the income from ganking isn't enough to cover the costs, then it should be allowed to die off as a profession, not be artificially propped up by alt accounts."
"gotta say, it's a little disheartening to see the csm chairman give such a useless response to a thread in the assembly hall. could you maybe expound on why \"yeah, no\"? or maybe just not post in the thread at all if you aren't going to be constructive about it?but back to the topic. i think the op has an interesting idea and some valid arguments to back it up. based on initial impression, i would support at least a good discussion on the matter."
"in or out of universe, the ability to monitor every financial transaction ever seems a bit of a drastic increase of concord's power.and besides, this is a game where betraying the trust of hundreds of people and taking their stuff is not only condoned, but a key point in its marketing. a little dirty laundry is par for the course"
"exactly. as far as i know, u're probably the first person to make a thread about this because the -10s don't want to face the consequnces of their actions and everyone knows it. and the funny thing is there's another thread in this same board that wanted to nerf sec gains, talking about consequences of crime. i asked them about the same problem u're bringing up and they're like \"oh we're not gonna do anything about that because we -10s should be above the law while anyone attacking us should not be\". the -10s just want their high sec alts to be safer with a suicide ganking nerf because they're too scared to use the same space they farm killmails in--they're the real carebears, plain and simple."
"1. you may notice that concord does not have sov anywhere.2. you may notice that ganking someone in high sec does not impact your standing with any space holding entity.3. you may notice that people in the real world with a lot of money are allowed to do stuff that other people aren't allowed to do.4. you may notice that the bank corporations in the game are caldari, so it would seem logical that players do not use them, as a chunk of players actively shoot caldari navy ships (something i would think would anger the caldari banks).5. if you've been paying attention to the rl news of late, you will be aware that boa received a slap on the wrist for being involved in laundering billions of dollars for s american drug lords and no one got in trouble. if that's how it works in the real world, with fairly unified government opposition to such activities, i would imagine such corruption absolutely belongs in eve.so, no, your proposal doesn't make sense from a game mechanics standpoint, a real world standpoint, nor a game rp standpoint."
"the thing is, concord doesn't care two hoots about money. they only care about \"security\"."
"nope...first it's a crap idea that serves no purpose. what perceived problem is it supposed to solve?second it's easy to circumvent (ooh, look, i contract 1 unit of tritanium for 1 billion isk. surprise, my alt buys it), or i trade him an item in station. or i trade him money in station. you don't want to tax trade by sec status right?third, it's a crap idea that serves no purpose."
"boy, is this what everyone voted for? snarky comments by the csm in the assembly hall, where presumably these kinds of ideas are to be discussed? do we really have to put up with this from them for another year? and just when they were starting to win me over..."
"it really is a dumb idea, though. what's next? i can't contract ships to my pirate alt because he's got negative sec status? my pirate alt can't dock up in stations? my pirate alt can't purchase ships and modules? my pirate alt can't receive bounties?this is a poorly thought out idea that would only introduce a very slippery slope. it's easy to circumvent through any number of channels (as exampled above) and would not introduce any new or interesting gameplay.no. not supported."
"yeah remove pirates plsall are nabs anyway"
"is it ignorant nc mouthpiece day? i must have missed the memo. concord does hold sovereignty. the sanctum constellation in the genesis region is mostly held by concord. 1 system there is held by interbus. see above. this has exactly _what_ to do with internet spaceships? it makes complete sense. i don't support it, but that doesn't automatically make it nonsensible."
"you may notice that pakshi, tar and other systems might disagree with you"
"here, have a hypothetical.i am in deep nullsec. i am 30 jumps from the nearest concord ship. i have not been to highsec in a year.why would concord be watching my bank balance?also, as meissa said, it's so easy to get around with contracts and the trade window that there is no point in even considering this. nerfing jita alts is just stupid.eve is a sandbox. not everyone wants to play like you do. pointless changes like this aren't going to force people to play your way, there is always a way around it."
"you boot a corporate spy -- war decyou say the wrong thing in local chat -- war decyou create a large and popular corporation -- war decit's too easy to declare wars for ridiculous reasons.maybe that's the starting point for reformation."
"railguns need a revamp overall and caldari hybrid platforms are next to useless.the rokh and ferox particularly need a review."
"good idea deserves more publicity."
"/support"
"alternate red/green flash would be the simplest solution, surely?."
"holy **** sticks **** faced monkey ****ersthis would be the best!if they implemented this along with a fw rr fix... well people might start thinking they supported their in-game features instead of thinking up new ones to poorly implement"
"this is brilliant."
"why in hell do people keep suggesting **** that will completely **** colorblind people. (just to be clear, i like the idea but holy **** the game is pretty damn hard to play already)"
"great idea, we'll fold it into our ui 'asks'"
"totally support. good thinkin'"
"*shoots all the knife holders*hells yes."
"supported"
"wrong character. tybalt said the line and was a capulet.. he'd hardly curse both houses when he's part of one."
"perhaps we should all band together and unite under a flag of peace... to share our version of \"peace\" with the op?well... it would be fun wouldn't? we'd all be friendly and peaceful like.hehehe"
"maybe you should support it too?"
"i use three chars on one account. char #1 has 130 fits, char #2 has 55 fits - but most of these were saved on char #1. (i don't remember importing them.) most of them are bad fits that i didn't delete as i improved things.i knew this feature change was coming up, and wanted to export all to xml before the patch, but for some time, group export of selected fits had been broken for me - could only export one at a time.char #3 has 3 fits, so at least those ought to upload to server, but they won't. one of the fits was for the elite apocalypse khanid, a proposed design. \"the fitting you are trying to save has corrupted data. the typeid 19881 does not exist.\"so i give up on that, check two out of three good fittings on char #3, click ok, and nothing happens. i have experience enough to fit my ships, but i won't be able to share my fail fits with friends anymore :(i'm not ready to delete my cache files as some have suggested - i use the customizations these store a lot more frequently than i dig for ship fittings.clearly, more testing with real world data was neeeded."
"back to the top because it is important!"
"please stop using red, it hurts my eyes.anyway, i've realized a slight immersion problem with your idea. what possible thing could keep two consenting pilots form making use of the orca bay?"
"the only people saying keep the nerf are the ones that sit in jita scamming to make their isk. what is the point to live in null sec anymore... the only thing that goes on are fleet battles, but without space to fight because of the nerf, you mine aswell live in high-sec :p"
"so moving huge fleets through a single portal using the same amount of fuel as it would take to move two ships. acording to wormhole mechanics how can this be correct? i hate the way titan and other captital can be used as jump bridges with no extra penties for the mass they are moving through. wormholes become unstable when too much mass goes through them. dosnt it make sense then to have more fuel required to keep the portal open for more mass as this would take more energy to keep stable? here are three ways to limit this. note. each is a diferent individule way to fix things. they are not all ment to be implemented together but are different ways to fix the same problem.a. by fuel. the more mass being transported in the jump the more fuel needed to complete it. a skill would need be added to conserve more fuel per level. b. add a standardized <U+FFFD>mass limit<U+FFFD> for the different caps. therefore multiple caps would need be used to transport a large fleet. a new skill would need be added to improve the standard limit per level. bigger ship would have a better mass limit but lower range. plus there own greater mass would need to be added so to add a level of balance between them and the smaller ships. c. add inaceracies to when the ships arrive at the cyno. if the ships going through the warmhole are of substanial mass when there mass values are added together they wil not appear in perfect formation but a few would be scattered from the intended destination and a third of them would be throne out of formation. the more the ships way combined the more they are desilinged and scattered. this would agin infasize multi cap usage for jumping large number of ships."
"d. move to worm hole space."
"that isnt the purpoe of this topic."
"its a reasonable hard-move-blob idea."
"hi, this is already the case, please learn all mechanics before making further complaints"
"hi this is not the case at all. please learn the game dinamics before making yourself seem dummer than u seem now.that is by rangetian carriers and dreds have a base of one thousand.three thousand one hundred for jump freighters.four hundred for black ops.note. another of the base amount for the type of ship jumping is added each light yeari think this mechanic should workwth mass insted of distance as i duely noted in my thread."
"but it already costs more to send a ship with higher mass through a bridge.that is what you're talking about, isn't it?"
"urg.it only costs more to send a ships farther.yes it costs more for a high mass ship to go through but only the ship creating the bridge. for instance a freighter uses more fuel to get through than a dred but it can have as many ships jump through with no extra cost excpet if they are going more than one light year.i double checked this aginst info in the wiki."
"no, it doesn't. go take a ship through a bridge - any bridge: black ops, titan, jump bridge pos module - and see how much fuel it uses. now put some armor plates on that ship, or run a mwd and jump through. same distance jump, more fuel consumed.dug this up for you:ozone_needed=(ship_mass/1'000'000'000)*500*lightyearsdistance and mass in there.the rest of what you're saying isn't making sense. of course it costs the ship (or pos module) more fuel when bridging higher mass ships - they're the ones creating the portal! please try re-wording and explaining better."
"because wikis can't be wrong. you saw it on the internets, it must be true! bridges shut down all the time because too many people go through. people get yelled at all the time for having their mwd on while going through bridges because of the dramatic increase in mass it causes. spies will do this on purpose to break up fleets and throw things into disarray."
"hi, you are literally ******ed.right now the more your ship weights, the more fuel it takes to go through a bridge, of any type at all, be it pos, black ops, or titan.thanks for looking stupid in public."
"wait, wait, wait.are you suggesting that freighters, dreads etc can open bridges for mother ships? please explain what you mean by 'it can have as many ships jump through with no extra cost'seriously, i do not understand what you are trying to say here. (sidenote, the reason people say to turn off your mwd before jumping is because the mwd increases your mass, and thus increases the fuel you burn. they wouldn't say this if mass didn't burn more fuel.)"
"as a smart phone user i love eve gate. it's a great way to stay in contact when your away from the game. i wanted to post this in a eve gate forum but i can't find one.problem 1.the mail's character allotment has been reduced to a \"tweet\". in the past i was able to plan entire campaigns from almost anywhere in the us with my corp mates but now all i can do are 1 liners. useless.problem 2.th eve calendar is cool but due to general human laziness goes mainly unchecked by the greater part of the community. it really needs to be linked to the actual eve server just like the mail.problem 3.eve gate voice doesn't seem to support smart phones. i thought the whole idea of eve gate was to unbind<U+FFFD>the player from the computer. but there is no need for eve gate voice if you need your pc and headset to use it you can just as easily log on.i can't make myself believe the dev's really intended for us to be screaming eve jargon at the top of our lungs in the middle of the local coffee shop.i think my car on the drive at five makes for a much better place to resemble a homicidal maniac. i've done a few tests and, if the driver next to you sees you screaming like a loon pounding one fist madly against the dash, while your other one is white knuckled on the steering wheel and covered in spittle there is a 90% less chance that sucker will have the balls to cut you off.please fix ;)"
"the other problems i don't particularly care or really need or haven't really thought about because i truly am disgusted with eve gate.but if they are going to push this pathetic little spacebook... at least make the bloody thing worthwhile by making it less like twitter and more like a proper eve mail box.i've been meaning to write a very nasty letter to ccp to demand an explanation as to why on every other browser i can paste a long eve mail but in my [insert smart phone here] the maximum allowed characters are mysteriously.... truncated to a pathetic couple of lines or less... w t h?seriously... i can go to the forums... or any other package... no problem.so what was the thinking or the idea behind that feature?yes... fix it before i throw it away all together."
"this. i've opened a few tickets for pi in which the response told me to create a bug report. since i know how to avoid it, i'm going to just avoid doing exactly what triggers the bug, and that bug will thus not be entered into their system by my hands. it frustrates the **** out of me when i'm told to basically copy/paste my petition into some bug report."
"we should be allowed to whip any gms responsible for faulty handling of petitions at fanfest."
"ccp's customer support is the only one i've ssen so far that separates bugs and customer ailments this strictly. a more humane process would be:-> you have any problem, you contact customer support-> these people are trained for handling customers, they get the necessary information to usable format-> cs forwards the problem to where the resolution occurs-> ???-> customer told of results. profit.edit: everyone would win. players would be content or even happy because they are handled by nice people, devs and game admins would no longer be pestered by long threads of q&a."
"that's just not possible.ive done some work on servers and specifically on logs1) it would increase database load considerably as each transaction now needs to write to the db.2) the db would be huge. so huge that they would need to start deleting logs as time goes on. depends on the hardware.what they have done is strike a balance between performance and logs. it seems to me that they put the emphasis on performance.also depends on what they are recording. it might be as simple as user a at 2011/4/22 16:33 pm sold small amour rep 2 for 1,000,000,000 isk.so when they view the log all it shows is that u sold a rep for isk. not that ur client disconnected or that your ip was different. a better idea would to be let the gm's ask the dev team for what kind of logs they need and where based on the type's of petitions they get most."
"moving threads around still doesn't make it any clearer for the noob. having a sticky that says \"fireside chat thread\" with zero replies is not going to make the impression of a lively discussion. decreasing the chance of anyone clicking on it. csm communication is horrible, to find out what they are doing you need to dig and dig. noob comes to eve online site, if he finds the csm menu on that page to begin with, he will find there is little of interest in it. then they might make it to the forums only to have to keep being rerouted to a section of the forum that is not meant for the csm.the best way to find out what the **** the csm is doing is to listen to an audio file that is not hosted in the place that is supposed to be informing you about the csm. you can slice that anyway you want, it's bad communication, period."
"make hi-sec systems lowsec when they regularly hit 500 or over for a week.if you want a role playing reason say it's because concord can't cope with the sher volume of traffic or the corporations that have the market hubs in their stations aren't paying enough tax to have effective policing!that would shake it up!"
"bingo, it's a pain for sellers and buyers, and you want to implement this? i do not like you sir, not as a buyer, and not as a seller, and not as a role player."
"well, they \"kinda\" promised that after a year and a half of focusing on incarna, they'll start focusing more on the rest.then again, they promised all of incarna will be completely optional, and would you look at that, the first part of it, cq, is now becoming mandatory.not just that, but it also looks like one and a half years might very well turn into three years or even longer."
"this was evident from the moment it was made clear how far they were in actually developing incarna, ie when they showed us they had done virtually nothing.also ccp this is my last active account going dark shortly, maybe if ccp changes direction of eve i'll visit my characters in a few years, assuming eve is still around."
"supported, from someone who regular googles \"awesome brand new mmo's\" i love eve but i can't take much more of this stupidity..."
"first off, 1 request i have is that every ship greater than a rookie or t1 frig have atleast 2 mediums (this includes mining barges and destroyers) in particular a mining barge with just a scanner and no civilian shield systems is an easy kill to pirates and a destroyer with no boost drive or no shield will not be able to hunt fast flying pirates either... pirates all fly the same ship (you know the one) and having just 1 medium slot further strengthens its problem with high dps and super high attack/interception speeds as for all other t1 ships i think you should use sandbox theorycrafting to construct them based on stats (type, size and faction origin)ship class determines amount of highsfrigate - 1-4 highsfleet t2 frigate 5 highscruiser - 6 highs (personally i think cruisers need more highs to make them atleast capable of taking on frigates, as they are now they are both vulnerable to their larger battlecruiser and smaller frig brothers)fleet t2 cruiser - 7 highsdestroyer, battlecruiser battleship - 8 highsship size determines amount of lowsfast attack ship - 1-2 lowsmedium frigate - 2-3 lowsdestroyer - 3-4 lowscruiser - 4-5 lowsbc - 5-6 lowsbs - 6-7 lowscapital - 8 lowsship faction technology determines amount of medsamarrian/minmatar 2-3 meds (low science)gallente/fleet or navy 3-4 meds (military research)caldari/pirate 4-5 meds (high interest in science)sleeper/strategic 5-7 med (stolen technologies)jovian 7-8 meds (highest technologies)as for drake - evasive manuerving/high speed manuevering skill should give each pilot 5-25% chance to completely evade a missile completely allowing for fast flying ships like interceptors to quickly shake off drake missileshowever ships aren't the only thing that needs changing, weapons and equipment are basically what makes the ship do what it does so perhaps weapons need more balancing or new additions as well...twin blasters - twin weapons would be attached to frigates as a twin shot or group shot weapon that only takes up one space, this will allow frigatiers to strafe heavier ships while still having highs left over to equip missiles, smart bombs or other tech to aid in their attack (twins are not duals which actually have a faster rate of fire..twins fire 2 shots at once)quad flak or aa blaster cannons - quad shot flak or aa defensive weapons could be equipped to destroyers and cruisers to allow for them to take down small fast flying frigates while still concentrating their artillery on the larger vesselsother ideas i've posted - artillery weapons create a splash dmg which dmgs nearby ships, railguns have a chance to penetrate hulls and pass through ships into other ships in a single line of sight, lasers can cause burning or engine overheating, autocannon bullet spray can slow down or damage manuevering of ships by tearing apart their \"fins/wings/hulls\"addition of more weapons could also help balance combat between different classes of ship - 350 cannons/dual medium lasers for destroyers vs cruisers, 450 cannons/dual heavy laser or blasters for cruisers vs frigates/destroyers specialized weapons could turn the tide for players of certain factions -caldari missile scrambler - emits a beam which would scramble incoming missiles and send them away from the original targetgallente drone scrambler - emits a beam which would scramble drones and force them to either become disabled or attack random targetsamarrian tactial laser strikes - could allow amarrian pilots to attack cruicial parts of the ship disabling weapons, shields or mobilityminmatarian nukes - minmatarians could launch heavy powerful nukes as a last ditch effort to destroy their attackers"
"ok my list is:tech ii tier 3 bs's called flag ships (there is a thread on them in features and ideas)af 4th bonushybrid fix:idea for blasters would be close range arties... (basically keep dps the same but increase alpha decrease rof to ofset, plus increase base tracking) railguns: make them long range autocannons (increase base damage and rof, reduce cap activity amount)hybrid ammo:make it a true mix between energy and projectile... (give a base tracking bonus added to the cap reduction bonus)plus make (antimater 50/50 therm/kin damage uranium 80/20 therm/kin plutonium 20/80 therm/kin) = -50% to optimal range thorium 70/30 therm/kin -20% optimal range 1.15% increase to tracking -25% to activation cost...lead 30/70 therm/kin 0% change to optimal range 1.075% increase to tracking -35% to activation cost...iridium 50/50 therm/kin 20% change to optimal range 1.035% increase to tracking -40% to activation cost...thungsten 80/20 therm/kin 40% change to optimal range 1.0175% increase to tracking -45% to activation cost...iron 20/80 therm/kin 60% change to optimal range 0% change to tracking -50% to activation cost... make there options for gallente ships to get close1st is speed option so give gallente ships all reduced mass plus make a mass reduction bonus to some ships (like deimos, mega all ships that currently get falloff bonus now get mass reduction bonus)2nd is increase armor:replace active tank bonus to 10% per lev to armor bonus (this would be brutix, astarte, hyperion) kronos remains unchanged"
"i actually really like those ideas o_ofor the guns at least."
"hybrids should be buffed in the same manner that created the god-like projectiles .. through ammo revamp and minor tweaks to guns. that much i can agree with, not sure the high thermal options are kosher though as it targets amarr resists rather than caldari.but reducing mass to get intercept speed? mass affects acceleration, top-speed and agility .. you have to adjust speed a little and inertia a lot to compensate or gallente will be used as kiting boats with very few exceptions (especially if they get better tracking options )"
"... umm, what?this is a problem for game balance how?"
"1. take a look at what ships are hardly ever used2. improve those ships, especially in their roles, and put them for 2-3months on the testserver until the general consensus is that theyre fine."
"dear csm vile rat,i caution you to take the comments in this thread with a grain of salt. after glancing over these three pages, half of these suggestions are so ludicrous i shudder to see them added to the game. i have spent the better part of my eve career studying the game mechanics and the ships of eve so i can run the various pvp training schools that i have founded over the years. it should be noted that some commonly held opinions regarding ships and weapon types are nothing more than uneducated nonsense. point in fact \"sensor dampeners suck\" wtf are these people talking about? they they land jams 95% of the time inside of deep falloff, exceeding 120km they are the perfect countermeasure for ecm and logistics ships at range and are practically over powered as the are. people just do not understand that it has a more specific role then ecm and not everything in eve can (or should be able) to do \"everything\" the biggest issue facing eve right now in terms of ship balance is so blatantly obvious... it is the balancing of carriers vs dreds vs supercarriers. once upon a time dreds were win and massive revelation/archon fleets dominated eve. what should have happened was a buff to all other racial dreds and carriers that would have resulted in a far more balanced playing field... but instead we got the nyx and aeon. now there is hardly room for anything elseccp did not expect that titans would be so prevalent in game. well, the same freakin thing is happening with supercarriers to...now do to their double oversight, we have supercarriers and titans online dreds and carriers of all races should be the bread and butter of any fleet in 0.0. suppercarriers should be far less numerous then they are now and titans should not be able to one shot a perfectly skilled archon in triage are you kidding me? all other issues in game are a distant second to the current epic fail disbalancing of capital warfare. period. who gives a **** about blasters right now? fix nullsec warfare. p.s.all ccp had to do in order to fix the damn doomsdays was give it an \"explosion velocity\" like what we have on bombs. this way only other capital ships would absorb damage and any battleship that was not sitting there completely stationary would absorb next to no damage. see how simple that was?but no... some moron came up with the death ray instead."
"has someone already mentioned gallente sub cap line active armor fitting requirement/bonus/speed/cap regen/cpu issues etcalso hybrids dps/tracking/fitting requirements?my 2cts contribution hopping sanchas will annihilate the gallente federation so we can finally get our sp back and train lasers."
"the fact is that ccp, except when the game first launched, have not cared too much about balance. admittedly at first there were some really broken features such as hardeners and damage modules stacking without penalty.they have had all the information available to them in real time but apparently chose not to use it. every time a player buys a ship or module in eve they are voting about the relative merits of that object. so for instance the eagle is demonstrative awful because its selling at less than it costs to produce, the dramiel is over-powered because its price indicates that is the case.my recommendation is that the developers acquaint themselves with the bell curve. a class of ships should be valued on the market within a range of prices, or perhaps, better profit over build cost. if a ship type moved more than a standard deviation of the mean it should be flagged for review. that flagging perhaps should be published on the forums and suggestions invited for its nerfing or boosting.if a ship class moves two standard deviations from the mean the expectation should be that the next patch will address the issue of that ship.the same process should be conducted for modules and there should be a look for patterns within the market data. for example, i am sure you can use something more sophisticated than venn diagram, but the poorly performing eagles and ferox are also members of the use rails set. and the rail set is notable because a lot of its tech ii types are trading a low to negative profits. so perhaps a solution would be to give a small boost to rails and see what happens.the key is that these adjustments are continual at each patch  not done and forgotten. a complete revision would be signalled by the failure over a number of patches to move the target group back into the central part of the bell curve.the advantage of this system is that the developers need not themselves be leet pvpers, even though some maybe, because they are using the market and therefore utilising the collective knowledgebase of the players."
"i second that... remember what happened to the moros? instead of ccp making other dreads better the made them all stink...but my idea to make dreads better might not jive with you...i want tech ii dreads! dreads were the first capital ship and they should have a tech ii variant by now...basically thier tech ii bonus would be 1. increase to damage2. increase to hp3. roll bonus would be to half the time and cost for siege mode...i would put the cost for each one of these babies around 4.5 billion...-------------------------------------------------------------ok back to hybrids:the reason why i suggest the changes to therm/kin layout is that gal are kinda gimped when it comes to pve using turrets... basically kin/therm is usually a secondary damage type for most rats... so that means when you use lets say blasters to rat with half your damage ends up being tertiary...so having ammo types that gives you more of one type of damage type will allow you to rat more effectivly with gallente...as for the speed bost via mass reduction... yeah it would be great finally gallente doing the kiting and not getting kited"
"re-work the whole gallente blaster 'core doctrine' without morphing blasters into a poor man's pulse laser or autocannon. keep the drone boats as they are, bin the roden \"lol, missiles\" brain-fart."
"tech ii dreds? quoting what is probably the stupidest post in this thread, being that you could just buff the current dreds just like ccp buffed motherships. if more intelligent people posted more realistic and well thought out ideas, then just maybe ccp would be doing more to better the game instead of screwing it up with each passing expansion. but instead you get crap like this... please visit your user settings to re-enable images.it would make far more sense to introduce a faction dred after current capital ships were rebalanced for at least a year."
"i told you it would not jive with youyou could just boost regular dreads...but dreads should not be on par with sc or titans...how much does a dread cost? how much does a sc or titan?you can dock a dread you cant with sc or titan...all you want is the game to go back to dreads online (which it was for a while) i remember something like 500 dreads on field at one point...though i do like the idea of faction dreads i dont think ccp will be doing them any time soon (maybe?) cuss we would have seen one with incursion... but what we got is a pirate faction sc... so chances are more faction sc's are in our future...as for tech ii dreads... you might think its a stupid idea... but i dont... tech ii is never a stupid idea...that would be like saying oh man there is this bs and its soo much more uber then my caracal... lets boost the hell out of caracal but keep the price the same? and you are calling me stupid? stop drinking the yellow listerine boss"
"1) drake is fine. it just happens to have abilities that are good for medium size fleets atm. not to mention 90% of players can fly a drake.2) artillery was buffed for very little reason. and now the alpha is just mad.3) angel ships.4) removal of space priests. i think going towards mainstream mmo way where you got healers was very bad decision. not to mention it made carriers less useful in process. i think this is also aftermath for needless buff for logistics back in time.5) gallente ships are fine. you could talk about balancing hybrid ammo and oomphing railguns whatever. which brings up suckiness of caldari hybrid boats."
"1.) remove the cap penalty from the mwd and replace existing mwd cap bonuses with something more suitable. i believe that meta level should also have a more significant impact on sig res penalty, and cap usage.2.) decrease the fitting requirements of medium and large blasters. this is essential for fixing some core gallente issues that revolve around the requirement of fitting large numbers of high grid and cpu modules such as plates, cap boosters, armor reppers and mwds.3.) change to penalty for active armor rep rigs.4.) give interceptors their roll back, nerf the dram."
"fixing existing stuff does not = adding new things. you must fix what currently exists first. it is sad that i need to type out and remind people of what should be simple commonsense. feed your brain because it seems to be dieing a slow death."
"1st... dreads are fine for the cost/risk if anything the seige counter should be reduced... 1.1 billion is not that expensive especially with alliance reimbursement and insurance...i think you are just butthurt that you dont have a titan and are upset it can one shot you...but if you want a ship that has more meat on its bones and is able to do more dps and still dock/ cost half that of a sc... then a tech ii dread is what you are looking for...imo i will always advocate to adding more flavour to pvp then just making things more vanilla..."
"reinstate the moros drone bonus. it was dropped from 50% damage per level of skill training to 20%. this crippling nerf was done without advance warning and didnt even make it into the patch notes until a couple days after the release of the patch.introduce a cruise missile version of stealth bombers. keep the torpedo one currently being used, but bring back the older cruise missile version with its bonuses. the current models are great in 0.0, but not as useful as the cruise missile version in high sec."
"tbh we can go on and on and turn this into an nonconstructive troll thread. but i won't bother doing that...because the important thing to remember here is that the odds of your ******ed idea being implemented in game is next to none. so i am quite content with letting you go on and on and on about... lol... tech ii dreds in place of a broad spanning capital ship rebalancing across the board (for all races)wow... just wow... lol"
"yeah this is starting to feel like a tennis match... i am nedal and you can be the other guy that keeps on loosingoh yeah his name is federersorry man this aint wow... this is eveonline...why you would think a ship that costs 1/10 of a sc or even 1/40 of a titan should be on par is beyond me...though a sc rebalance is needed as the nyx is teh win atm and the minnie one needs major love...the only answer other then nerfing the hell out of titans and sc's and in the process reducing thier cost so that people will still fly them (or boosting dreads to the point where its 2008 again and all we see is dreads online) would be introducing tech ii dreads into the mix...even though ccp has not been talked about it before i would not be so confident that it wont ever happen in the future..."
"anything that deviates from every single person stacking on as much ehp and dps as possible is obviously bad for the game."
"i think a few extra high slots on dreads with the option of capital sized nos/neut (with siege bonus) would add flavor to dreads. or tech 2 dreads...."
"in addition to balancing the races (which is related to weapons, the most important component of the ship), eliminating the teir system in another topic is a good idea for accomplishing balance and having more use of ships that normally are the odd things that no intelligent people would play with. ie ferox compared to drake."
"there should be a reward or a strategical reason why you should care about conquering systems.a few examples: - fw missions from agents only spawn in conquered systems (lvl5 missions? something cool at least) - npcs in plexes have more bounty as usual (but only for the faction holding the system) - combine two eve features: open a wormhole connecting the system with the militia home system (reinforcements...)make enemies suffer: - decreased lp/rewards (the more systems occupied the worse) - we have incursions... they have system wide implications, lets do something similar - yes. docking rights"
"one of the biggest disconnects between eve and other mmos is the lack of immediate skill feedback due to game play. having skills and skillpoints distributed via the completion of in-game missions and quests would provide that sort of virtual crack that keeps the other major mmos pumping. even a small experience point distribution will keep people keen.i like the idea of profession arcs. that is an excellent way of familiarizing the newbie with pvp or whatever in a gentle way."
"i couldn't disagree with this one more. i'm so, so happy that eve has no \"kill x wolves, get y experience points\". that's one of the defining good differences between eve and all other mmo's. the skilling system is unique and a good thing, no need to change to an xp system."
"maybe an icon that tells us the character is new, from a new account and new owner. it can also be deactivated by people who just created a new alt.this will help older players identify genuine newbie players who need help"
"no weirder than it is in the 21st century..."
"in here because its not a feature or idea or a test server issue.if you feel constrained by only having 50 fittings.if you think ccp has just nerfed the much improved fitting system for no apparent reason.please support/sign this petition for a solution to this nerf.1) just remove the limit.2) keep a limit but make it much bigger.3) enable the use of unlimited local fittings to augment your server fittings.4) some combination of the above.posted for rage consolidation, and hopefully effect.edit: i couldn't understand why we had no response to this simple and easy to fix issue...i even asked this question in the 'ask a dev' thread and expected this simple question to be picked early as low hanging fruit....little did i know they were considering selling us back this functionality we once had for free for mt (that's macro transactions btw)i request people sign this petition, and tell ccp what we think about this idea...without using crude obscenities please....i would like to keep the moral high ground."
"i really cannot understand why 50 is not enough. between the two races i can fly...caldari and amarr i fly a grand total of about 15 ships...all of which have 1-3 different fits depending on need. i barely have the patience or care for that many fittings...i don't see any reason why unlimited local fittings shouldn't be allowed...i mean it's storage space on your pc...not on the servers. but at the same time i can't believe how many people out there are so butthurt over this.ill support it for the fact that local fits should not be restricted. thats just dumb common sense."
"thanks for the support, and i am glad that your not effected by this... i had over 90 fittings at the time this happened... would have had more but they got killed in a patch disaster one time.i can fly every t1 hull sub-cap for each of the 4 races. and i can also fly a fair few of the t2, plus some of the industrials, i own more than 50 different ships. now add into that the fact that some heavily used ships can have upwards of 10 fittings for them, a missioner for example could have fittings for short and long range, high-low dps, high-low tank, cap or non-cap stable, plus different resits combos for different rats.... and that's just one ship. i can beat 50 fittings with just my missioner bs's without even trying. now it used to be stored on my local pc, and used to be unlimited.however in a bid to add the ability to 'take your fittings with you' they changed it to server-side fittings so you have them no matter what computer your on... which is fine but what they didn't flag/make clear when testing is that they were only storing 50, and due to inadequate testing it failed badly when faced with old fits that contained modules that have changed name's or ships with more/fewer slots and such. so it hit tq with this sudden unannounced arbitrary cap and for many people failed to even port 50 fits across to the servers. now this wouldn't have been a major issue if the feature just allowed us to store our 50 best fittings on the server on any computer and run the rest on our home computers, but no, this patch means you can't use local fittings in game any more.that is why we're less than pleased. we really do use/need more than 50 fittings and this feature we didn't really need broke that for no good reason and without any warning/communication/testing.there was no need to break this feature, there are a dozen ways to fix it, pick one."
"i'm no whiz with computers but unlimited local storage is the option i would have chosen. apart from the ships i can fly t1-t3 + ore, there are corp and alliance fits that i need to access regularly. server fittings are fine for those who use a different pc every time they logon but i use the same computer daily. come on ccp, think before you act please."
"ive had over 100 fits, beeing srp director its kinda important to be able to fit all ships and know what they are like and recommend fittings to people. which i can now only do for a select few ships.and 50 not enough? i got 3 fits for every carrier(combat, triage, combat triage), 1 for every dread, 1 for every sc. thats 20 alone for just capitals. 5 logie fits, 4 dics, 4 hics, 3 zealot, 3 muninn. hey look an other 19 fits right there lol. do i really need to continue heh. i havent even touched battlecruisers(2 for each tier2 bc of each race), battleships(thats like an other 10 fits atleast), recons. and oh tech 3 ships for which i allone had 20 fits together lol"
"i stopped saving fittings when the limit came about. i haven't used the feature since..."
"this is the most ******ed implementation ever to this game. i had nearly 300 fits stored, and most all of them were used regularly by request from other pilots. unlimited local storage or no storage at all. you can go and get kicked in the teeth whoever decided this was a good idea. thanks for ruining a working feature. i suggest next you remove the undock feature, as we clearly don't need to undock when you don't want us to fit ships"
"with just a small amount of fitting variations for just a few of your favorite ships, you're already stretching or breaking the 50 fitting limit. when they announced the server-side fitting feature i had supposed it would be in addition to locally-stored fittings and/or without such heavy limitations.when it comes down to it, a saved fitting doesn't have to consist of anything more then a few dozen itemid numbers, and if every single suscriber to eve stored 500 fittings on the server each, it'd only take around 25 gigs to store them all by my rough guestimation provided there were no optimizations involved. this may seem like alot of numbers/fittings in a personal sense... but for a major mmo database i don't see why it would be a problem.example: <url=fitting:12044:2048;1:448;1:3170;4:31526;1:13001;1:10190;1:31538;1:438;1:1306;1:1183;1:2456;1::>this is red</url>this is the format by which a fitting is conveyed through ingame chat linkage, its not even intended with storage purposes in mind and still doesn't take up much space, with a specialized system it could be easily more efficient.and to save you the trouble if you just really gotta know.. the example is an enyo."
"i support thisremote repping neuts should get global agressionand & go blinky - this will discourage ill pvp practice."
"allow a skill removal session where one gets back half the skill points of removed skills. hell, charge us 1000 isk per skill point or something and make it a concourse service only available in starter stations or something.i can think of some skills i'd gladly purge from my nyx pilot and reuse to make her even more awesome (i'm looking at you exhumers 5).at least make it interesting"
"i think this is a brilliant idea, which aside from the obvious gameplay benefits (no more futile mashing of keyboard yelling \"goddamn you ccp and your server!!!!11111\"....) could look very cool if done properly. kind of like the start of the tyrannis trailor with the close up scene off the naglfar's artillery..."
"a communication suggestion would be to adopt a similar formate like engineering reports cryptic does for star trek online, they are orderly, well structured give a good overview over the current work and state of the pipeline and thus leave a feeling that the devs are doing something and development is moving on."
"clonejumps are currently a usability nightmare: 1) no reason to pause the skill queue, jump and resume it again. this should be handled automatically behind the scenes if this is a technical requirement 2) allow jumping from ship to ship. why do we have to be in a pod to jump? all the session timer delays are annoying.inserting implants: same as 1) (i haven't checked, maybe its already fixed ;) )updating clones: - please send a notification mail if the clone must be upgraded. we get insurance expiration mails but no clone update warning mail...changing ships: - remove the 30s session timers(its probably a workaround to reduce server load or something like that. if yes, delayed writes or write on undock/disconnect could be a even better optimisation without usability implications)"
"well, the fact is i payed twice the cost of a t1 bs for my dram and fittings and i did it because the dram is a t1 frig murder mobile. its powerful and lightning fast, that's what makes it worth 3-4 times the cost of a t2 frig.nerf it and you screw the people who own them. if you think it's unfair to go up against a dram in your caldari rocket mobile, run away and fight something on your level, or better yet, stfu and buy one yourself.either way, asking ccp to make it easier for you to kill ships is crap. there are strategies for killing every kind of ship in eve, if you aren't getting it done, look some up and fit accordingly.let me counter a few ideas posed so far with reality. raising the price is crap. if anything, an inflated price would only make bpc providers farm harder, which means more available drams, ans the price drops once again.boosting the other frigs is crap. how far you gonna boost them? unless you make them all as fast and powerful as the dram, it still has the advantage. in the end, what you have is the dram being just like everything around it only costing 10 times more.nerfing is crap that angers me. it's better to shoot an eagle between the eyes than clip it's wings. i would rather see the dramiel bpc removed from the game than see it sullied with a nerf via butthurt. it's not a god ship, it's just the game's fastest frigate, big woop, some frig had to be.like the old saying goes, if everyone in the universe was unique, no would be."
"price as an argument at this stage? were it to be accepted as valid, then it would only apply if the death rate of the things was equal to the t2 hulls/t1 bs you compare it with .. which is most definitely is not.take the other pirate hulls and run them through the same logic, they too are very expensive and very powerful but they die to the slightest slip-up and have numerous counters even in their own class.but 25%+ faster than interceptors (which are meant to be fast, it is in the name) while still having tank/spank?"
"nerfing something is never good for the game and surely will not make other ships issues become more easy to accept.the dramiel has 2 points that need a close look but not a nerf, such has it's speed and drone bay.instead of nerf the dramiel wy not just give t1 hulls good speed improvements and some drone bay, t2 hulls the so demanded racial bonus and some drone bay+speed.would not make t2's overpowered, would not nerf pirate frigs (some need real love) and t1's little more useful, but if you ever think the good game is that a 10cts frigg can take down a 100m frigg fingers in the nose you just play the wrong game, better play ps3 with downloaded cheats on internet."
"we already tried the nano-age, making it t1/t2 frigs only and reinstating it will not make it better as the exact same issues will arise.besides, makes no sense to rework 20-30 ships just to make one broken hull seem less so.frigate balance (t2, navy, pirate and higher tiers) is actually pretty damn good, apart from that one ship with no discernible downsides ..it needs vulnerabilities or be forced to make sacrifices (ie. pick one or two from speed/tank/spank but never all at once) just like practically all other hulls do.ps: dramiel can be killed by t1 frigates already, just requires a custom fit that is generally useless against all other things"
"guristas are junk compared to angel in general. others have half the slots and double the damage, guitarists have half the slots and more range for missiles, ie quite useless."
"this is a really stupid complaint to make a thread about. eve is supposed to be harsh...forget to update your clone...be penalized for it.i could swear that the max amount of sp that could be lost was exactly one weeks worth. so if you lost say amarr carrier 5 you actually only lost 7 days of it and it is still partially trained. is this not correct?"
"5% off the top of your highest sp invested skill."
"post with your main."
"you lose the highest level 5 skill you have..thats it..@val'dore - not even close..im sure lots of people would love that idea though"
"@op +1"
"all three of you are wrong:start sp leveltwo poddings later to emulate op:oh noes my sp backboneso what does this tell us?a, you will not lose 1 week worth of sp (it's 32d worth in this case).b, you will not lose 5% worth of sp (i lost 50% of the highest sp skill, it's possible the 5% is when you have a lot less total sp).c, you will not lose one level 5.d, the op is talking *******s."
"bleh, nvm."
"where was all this \"isk based bounties are wrong\" during the twelve months when it was being milked? where was it in the epic whine threads in the 4 weeks from nerf-announcement to implementation?hindsight is 20/20 and all that, but blaming ccp for something the null crowd lined up to be complicit in is beyond ridiculous.risk in null is only higher than elsewhere in the weeks it takes to get jammers and bridges online, after that you are only safer if you remain docked.if it was the great wild west that some wants to believe then the number of deaths would be significantly higher than they are.with no defensive patrols needed, no logistics operations needed and nothing for roams to do other than dock locals up risk is limited to a few hours a week when blobs collide over one timer or another."
"last time i checked they did own space and there hq is in yulai wich is suprisingly owned by gues what concord"
"in my assessmentso i have to echo the sentiment of sorry."
"buy stuff. direct trade. sell. tada, new mechanics avoided. at the mere cost of sales tax and broker fee.hmm, so you now want to make it a crime to trade via direct trades too ? what if you just fail to notice the guy's sec-status before engaging in absolutely legitimate trade ? last time i checked, not even in rl would the police/justice system be so incredibly stupid as to arrest you for buying a used car from a registered sex offender (since, hey, you could have checked) or something like that.so, ok, direct trade out of the question then ?well, how about replace \"direct trade\" with : undock, warp to random bookmark. jettison. scoop up with alt. too complicated and risky you say ? or maybe also penalize people for looting wrecks of outlaws ? come on...well, how about selling 1 trit for 1 bil isk then ? wait, what, now you also want to deny people trading on the market with people of opposing status ? or maybe make it so that only outlaws can trade in lowsec while only positives can deal in highsec ? what about 0.0 then, how do you handle it ? or maybe you just mean penalize them randomly since they can't see who's selling/buying stuff ? waaaait a minute, now you're proposing people to see who is the issuer of the order ? what about the fact you can't select the best order and you end up buying from the best priced one anyway and you still end up buying from or selling to an outlaw if you're an honest citizen ? the hell ? now you want us to be able to select the order too ?what if i have two guys, one outlaw and one honest citizen, each with their own corp, and each has the share for the other guy's corp. just pay anything you want as dividends. wait, what ? you want to make it a penalty to simply receive dividends from that ? well, how about the great new griefing method you just introduced, destroying any target's sec status down to at least zero ?seriously, stop now before you end up having to change just about every imaginable mechanic that can be used to exchange goods and/or funds.unenforceable things (or extremely hard to enforce, or unfair to even think of enforcing without regards to circumstances) should never go past initial hasty proposal status.i'm going to just echo the \"yeah, no\" sentiment here."
"to plug in the loopholes:1. all sec status drops in this way will come with a warning so newbies won't be tricked into it.2. all of these sec status drops will penalize both parties by reducing sec status all the way down to the exact amount of whoever's lower, including direct trades.3. knowing that the criminal is an outlaw on the run and intentionally buying the car off of him to throw off the trail or aiding and abetting him in any other way is still a crime.4. ejecting/jettisoning will also have the same sec status drop as a trade since that is aiding and abetting as well.5. accepting a contract from an outlaw will have the same penalty.6. if an outlaw attempts to accept a contract, a mail will be notified to whoever made the contract, asking if he is willing to accept the consequences of aiding an outlaw. if so, same sec status penalty applies to the contract maker.7. make no mistake, u can still market trade--u just have to accept the consequences for doing business with criminals.8. all market orders can be arranged with the option of sec status factored in. and all outlaw orders will be highlighted in red.9. if even 1 corp share is owned by an outlaw, the corp's ceo will be penalized the same way the instant he starts paying dividends.10. once again, all of these sec status drops come with a warning.11. all of the above is void if both parties r above -5.no more loopholes, no more risk-aversion behind high sec anonymity, circumventing sec status and not having to earn back your high sec access."
"get out."
"i propose giant floating pink elephants be added to space everywhere... just because. anyone who offhandedly(and correctly) dismisses this idea as stupid and pointless is obviously just being snarky and i r disappoint. how dare you make reasonable judgements that pointless meaningless crap shouldn't be added to the game, we should obviously give my random floating giant pink space elephants a serious discussion.i'd /sarcasm here, but honestly if you managed to miss it... i fail to care."
"translation: it works and u're mad about it."
"translation: its such complete fail that he has determined you to be beyond reasoning, leaving nothing to be said beyond \"no, that's stupid\" and various iterations thereof, since he's unable to communicate on a level low enough to actually debate it with you.you apparently support cutting the game in half, changing massive amounts of game mechanics, and adding an abundance of grief... just because you feel like it. no, that's stupid."
"explain exactly how does it \"cut the game in half\" when all a -10 has to do is rat back up above -5? or r u just talking out of your ass as well and think being -10 should have no consequences?"
"all we have to do is change the entire game in random arbitrary ways for no reason, in order to make it so that -10s have to rat up to -5! is that what you're trying to say? no, that's stupid.what the crap.. i'm bored enough to humor this inane concept.1. have you read your own proposals, there are conflicts...2. random anti-red emo rage penalties, noted.3. you realize this isn't actually a proposal or rule of any sort right, so why are you listing it as one?4. i'm not even sure what you mean by this, its halarious that you think letting -10s ruin other people's sec status against their will is a good idea. a -10 can jump into any ship left in space (there are fair amount of these) and the original owner takes a sec hit? lol. this also conflicts with #1.. just how does that work, eh? would i be able to prevent -10s from jumping in ships i leave idle in space? does that mean being a criminal means you can't steal, how does that make sense? if so why can't i prevent whoever i want from doing so? if i can, awesome you've just destroyed a game feature congrats, i can now leave all my ships safely drifting in space in highsec protected by concord, why bother with stations.5-6. okay, so lets cut the economy in half, the red market, and the not red market.7-8. fancy! oh wait... actually it isn't.9. oh, so 1 share owner of any corporation can go red and begin screwing over the entire corp at will, that sounds great doesn't it? you realize shares can't be taken away right?10. feel free to repeat yourself. no really, feel free to repeat yourself.11. arbitrary limit for the arbitrary ideas, noted.show me on the doll where the naughty reds touched you. your rabid devotion to centering the entire game around sec status is halarious.tl;dr no, that's stupid."
"i am pro"
"stop it with the red + green crap please. i like being able to see when people are shooting me.if this goes through, i will not be able to see that, since red and green on the eve overview are the same color to me.i like the idea, but would strongly prefer the method to visualize this be something other than color, otherwise its another piece of the eve ui i can't use very well (much like the map and heat management part of the ui)the last thing this game needs is more freaking color coding.but hey who cares about color blind people amrite?"
"+1, nice thinking!"
"so simple yet so obvious.make it blue instead?"
"that could work... if the right shade is chosen.i would really prefer they move away from color coding the ui at all, but that would be a decent enough compromise since i know a redesigned ui with colorblindness in mind will never freaking happen.there are a ton of different type of colorblindness red/green is the most common followed by blue/black... but really if you want to use colors in a ui you really need a good system of creating contrast so that colorblind peeps can use it too.the current eve ui is complete **** at this, and considering the lack of concern i got at the ui panel and at the dev qa regarding this, i don't see it changing anytime soon.so really judging that the csm sees this as a good idea i think it'll get through, and it'll just be one more kick in the **** for me.and yes i like the idea, but would rather another indicator was used other than color... maybe an icon or something.just stop making the ui worse for me, i mean first wide screen goes away, then that stupid autopilot change now this ****. its really, really frustrating.also if any of the csms want help understanding what i'm talking about, i would be more than happy to answer any questions they have."
"a large number of corporations in this game could be considered \"dead\", meaning that there is 0 activity and only 1 or 2 characters (usually alts) remain in the corporation. this has the action of freezing a large number of corp names and tickers, as many of these were from the early days of the game.proposal: after 180 days of no action within a corporation (any character logging in) the corporation is closed, all the assets end up in the personal hangar of the ceo and the wallet is divided among shareholders, if the corporation owns all the shares the wallet empties into that of the ceo. all the characters in the corp will then be put in npc corporations.this will remove a lot of clog from the game as well as free up corp tickers and names and all that business. if someone has a cool ticker/name they really want to keep they should have to play the game to do so."
"can't think of a unique name or just really mad that some stupid name/ticker you want is taken?"
"sorry if this is a repeat of already submitted ideas.1. can we please have some type of sov structure for wormholes.while my corp understands that wh space is not connected to new eden, we think it would be nice if there were claim units that could be deployed in wh space only. 2. after being able to claim sov, then it would be nice to have upgrade structures. they need not be as powerful as 0.0 new eden structures. my corp has held a wh now for over a year and a half. there have been times when we have gone three or more weeks in a row with no grav belts, very few ladar, and sleeper sites. 3. it would be cool to be able to build or take in a station egg into the wh. even if it is a smaller version of normal. this would allow services to the players that live in wh space. (could even make it require increased fuels or something to run.) might get some good fights with players wanting to take over the system and station. 4. for the love of god let us moon mine in wh space.. we have 50 moons in there that we can do nothing with.. could have them produce moon goo that is only good for t3 production or some kind of new ship, or mods in future expansions. we don't care we just want to mine em. :)"
"1. no. wormholes are specifically unclaimable for a reason.2. no. even a c1 can produce more money than a -1.0 truesec system.3. i would agree this one would be rather cool. i am sure the answer will still be \"no\" however.4. no. hell no. don't break the game by adding moon mining to wormholes where they can be near invincible and create massive isk with no risk.needless to say...unsupported."
"do not turn w-space into 0.0-space, please. all this sovereignty stuff is one of the main blobbing factors, because these structures have massive ehp. and as you cannot bring supercaps to the w-space, and bringing dreadnoughts is far more tedious that subcaps, so the one who owns that station in w-space gains too much advantage over the one who wants to capture it.so i think you just want to make your happy carebearing even easier."
"awww you and your corp want to feel special. how cute. working as intended. farm your static.obviously you know nothing of sov warfare. its hard enough with capitals. this would only serve to further entrench wh dwellers. materials for t3 production are already found in wh space. i wouldn't mind seeing hidden ice belts in wh space as i believe that if players want to be 100% self sufficient, they should be able to. but adding more resources for the sake of more resources is stupid."
"made this post knowing there would be some people that just cant help but to flame. that is ok. with out players making suggestions, the game would go nowhere. to those of you talking about hp on sov structures.. yes i know regular new eden sov claims have high hp. what i am suggesting is sov structures that are for wh only. they could be balanced to be able to be taken out with a battle ship or battle cruiser fleet. hell we pay the same pi taxes in there as ever other player in eve, we want to know to whom and why if we don't get comparable benefits of normal space living. as for moon goo, i do not see the problem. it wont break the game. in fact i think it would enhance it. maybe some t3 battleships or something in the future that would require wh moon goo. have any of you ever tried keeping a pos supplied with ice products in a wh? it can be a nightmare, our exit is always in low sec. think of a corp keeping 25 pos fed in there, and what it would do for the ice market, not to mention the control tower and structures market. to the flamer crying about carebears in wh space.. obviously you have never lived in a wh. try it some time and compare it to the logistics of 0.0 life. we have no local in there, much less intel chans to let us know people are moving through our space. the only way to survive is guard toons, directional scans, and pvp skills. so your post is about useless. try constructive criticism it is much better received."
"so here is from wh dweller (sounds almost like vault dweller :p):1. hell no. wh dont need sov, but i agree wh need more love, maybe in form of upgrades, but nothing compared to current sov mechanic. wh will never be yours, it is belonging to people living in it. if you can keep it its yours. no \"super sov structure\" makes it more yours than it is already.2. as said before, i agree wh need some love... upgrades? maybe. but they should focus more on spawning more wh than spawning more sleeper / gravi / magneto / etc sites. and they should eat tremoundous ammount of fuel (maybe materials that could only be gained from wh moons?). or maybe some totally different thing (i've read somewhere about wormhole stabilizer proposal).as someone stated - farm your static - thats the beauty of wh. so move from your c3 with hi static into something more interesting, and you will get more money, and more pvp.3. no, no and no. fix pos mechanic, that will help. we dont need stations in here. stations as they are now are indestructible (not to mention link with sov mechanic). anything in wh space must be destructible. i dont want people to be albe to dock and hide. if you want to hide in wh turn on that cloak you have. if you want more services: thats where pos mechanic can be discussed. maybe repair module, or being able to repackage things or reproces. but it all comes to changing pos behavior, maybe just for wh, maybe for all space. 4. i agree that lack off moon mining (not moon-goo mind you) by itself is something that is unresonable. why cant we mine? we have the technology :p but... what shall we mine is question: maybe mentioned fuell for wh specific structures. maybe materials for future t3 ships (t3 frigs/destroyers anyone? but i dont want t3 bs's)tl;drwh need more love.but dont make it another 0.0"
"\"if anyone disagrees with me, they are flaming and trolling\" ::tinfoil:: pure speculation, but i'm of the opinion that the game would be just fine (most ideas are pretty crap).edit: in all seriousness, don't expect many changes to wh space. its one of the few features that has been introduced with excellent reception and thrived since its inception. ccp doesn't usually make a habit of iterating on things that work as is."
"ah, right you are. i mixed him with mercutio, the one tybalt killed. but it doesn't make anything i said after that little mix up any less true.anywho, it's been fun. thanks for all the discourse, although it would have been nice to have more thought-out counter-arguments to go against."
"regarding the jamming of npc's they just gave them some nice jam strenght but fit eccm and you should be fine. however the funny thing is that people whine about the fact that they get jammed but they also don't get hit by the railguns but aparently nobody bothers with that"
"maybe you're just afraid of change?"
"although the new combat hotkeys added a lot of functionalities, it often feels a whole lot clumsier and slower than the previous incarnation. the most glaring problem with the current version of combat hotkeys is that you are no longer allowed to use hotkeys directly on the objects you click from the screen, even though the overview and the selected items menu fully recognize the object you are selecting without any problems. in order to understand why this inconvenience occurs, we'll have to take a look at how the new combat hoykey system works. combat hotkeys(target, approach, align, warp, etc) only work when these two conditions are met;1. an object has to be selected. the selected object is shown in the selected items menu, and is highlighted on the overview. the user can select on object by clicking on it or using the up/down key to scroll through the overview.2. the overview has to be set on focus. when the overview is focused, the window will show a white box within the window boundaries. the user can set the focus to the overview by clicking on it or using the \"set overview focus\" hotkey. (the up/down key for selection only works when the overview is set on focus.)by looking at this, the reason why combat hotkeys don't work outside the overview becomes fairly simple; even though the object is selected, the overview is not set to focus. simply removing the need to focus on the overview won't be advisable, as there is no way the client could know whether the user is chatting or issuing an order from the hotkey, especially when using hotkeys that bind to alphabets or shift/ctrl/alt.therefore, i propose this simple fix:when a user clicks on an object in space, automatically set the focus to the overview. this way, the user can use combat hotkeys by simply clicking at the object and using the hotkey instead of trying to find the object from the overview or resorting to the selected items window. the way combat hotkeys work will be the opposite to the previous method(hotkey-click -> click-hotkey), but it's better than nothing."
"you are mistaken, hotkeys work in space just fine... i don't know how you've managed to miss that. i suggest you undock right now.... hold w and click on something in space. i suspect you're a little confused at how the hotkey's are supposed to work.."
"no, the people saying keep it (and expand upon it ) is the 89% of the playerbase that is not in null but is still affected through sky-rocketing prices on everything due to inflation."
"i tought only titans and black ops could create bridges and last time i checked my black ops isn't a capital shipthis is already the case (why do you think people cyno in caps and not just jump them trough titan bridges cause according to you that saves fuel right?)and regarding the skill gues what the skill jump portal generation doesand activitaion is not the creation of the bridge (that only costs 1000 cap for a titan bridge and 100 for a bo bridge) but it is the fuel cost for ships using your bridge.that's some wicked stuff ehh you idea is already ingame o.0do you really think people care if they are flinged away from the cyno? you do know the cyno let's everyone in system (including enemy fleet) know that there are people jumping in there so i for one would be very very very happy if my ship gets thrown out 100 km's and survive the onslaught."
"owning a titan is enough of a hindrance as is, with the one redeeming factor being the bridge, and maybe getting to one shot some idiot every now and then.plus the changes you've described are already in place, you can bridge a titan through another titan if you really want to but it just uses a ****ton of fuel."
"for fittings, bookmarks notes, contacts, datacores and other junk (end to those threads)instead of a player having a character sheet as top tab, they would access their \"ship computer\" (sorry i've been watching alot of tng lately) which would allow them to store as many fittings, bookmarks, contacts, pre prescribed contracts (contracts you use alot to sell bulk items which you could reupload), (edit, the ship computer would store youre \"character sheet\" and have access to your \"training regimen\"also you can make notes which would be called datacores which could store all kinds of useful information on them, the calculator and notepad, browser could be moved up here (for roleplaying, your datacores can be traded or hacked from your ship computer if someone decides to hack your ship and browse your cpu databanks)you could also access the map, bounty hunter tracker, agent tracker, stock tracker, other various tools that immerse you inside the universe of eve online"
"fantastic. this needs to be kept up."
"while i generally support the newer features (even the pi stuff), i really miss the polishing of the older features. for example, that goddamn \"pinned windows don't stay where they are supposed to be\" problem which has been plaguing the gui for like forever (it has always been around since i've started playing).i support the thread authors ideas about \"less shiny junk, more polished old stuff\". please, ccp, listen to your playerbase (and the csm).i really love the ccp soundwave's team work so far, keep it up, guys!"
"well, for starters, i would say that the \"bounding spheres\" of all ships would need to become much larger, but the \"bounce coefficient\" needs to become far more lenient in the \"outer layers\", and the way a small bounding sphere interacts with a large one needs to be readjusted (so, for instance, a small ship could have far less of an effect on a large ship's trajectory, but the small ship should be able to \"intrude\" in the large ship's sphere to some degree without being bounced back like mad)... and while inside a pos shield, all of them would be significantly reduced (optionally, also reduce speed when too close together, but only while inside a shield and when too close to another ship).basically, a sort of enforced \"collision avoidance\" ship navigation automated subroutine (if you want to consider the rp implications), that would work from a practical (gameplay) standpoint as a very soft anti-blob technique, which would also have an impact on the way bumping works.so, say, if there's a bunch of supercaps, they would tend to drift apart to a relatively large distance unless all ships are actively trying to move towards the same point, and it should be harder and harder to \"clump together\" the closer they get (and the more of them are around).however, at the same time, battleships should be able to move with relative impunity where supercap movement would be already somewhat restricted, cruisers could flock together relatively closely or even fly by the barely moving and still attempting to approach one another supercaps, whereas frigates would hardly feel any difference from the current model.in other words, ships should act far less like giant rubber balls with a relatively clear size... and instead act slightly more like a bunch of objects charged with the same sign of static electricity (but the \"strength\" of the interaction would be smaller the larger the sig difference would be)."
"interesting idea...i like it. still trying to wrap my imagination around it more, but it seems workable and a good way of helping the blobbing issues."
"no, it was only announced at fanfest infront of 300 people and put on youtube 3 months before it was implemented."
"buff the legion. (please dear god)no one-mid-slot ships.co ops cloak for bo, so we can get into 0.0 but limit number of bos per alliance to stop huge bo blobs appearing from nowhere.time limit the cov ops cloak to 15 mins before a reset to nerf afk cloakers and make cloak game play a bit more challenging. thank you, sul."
"ok, so i am seeing a lot of back and forth development of ideas related to fix this, fix that, kind of ideas which are mostly really good i think. but would i be wrong to say that most of us here think that ship balancing in general for ccp should work like this? 1.) not making ships obsolete nor over-shadowing their similar counterparts; every ship has a specific purpose.2.) when buffing / nerfing ships as needed, be sure to consider how it affects its role; making sure those purposes can not be done better by any other ship.anyone think this is reasonable?personal note: i still want to see dreads with more turrets, also happy easter!"
"way to go poaching peoples ideas off them btw ----> lol!and the idea was shot down pretty fast because of how laughable it is, yes i can understand that trying to get the figures correct may make it slightly less of an argument but its not like fleetwarps even takes those things into consideration.. all ull do is make a blob auto deblob once out of warp.. which tbh will only add to its defences.no need to actively deblob so we're not all a massive concentrated target for bombers guys.. the server does it for us! woohoo!"
"im reposting my first post as some people are asking for a more generalised balancing set of ideas so i thought id offer you lot this...love some criticism on this.. be ultra harsh so long as u spank me afterwards! lol!!"
"first off, logistics (and i mean the \"convoy of freighters\" style) needs to make at least a partial comeback.severely nerfing (or even eliminating) jumpbridge capabilities would be one of the necessary facets.in fact, you could go even further, and completely replace jumpbridges with player-built stargates instead... but more on the necessary limitations later.the other aspect would be to significantly slow down the cross-universe travel speed of jumpdrive capable vessels (a dread should not be able to cross the entire galaxy map anywhere in the same order of magnitude for duration as a frigate warping to zero and using stargates).a much more significant depletion of capacitor reserves when jumping combined with a short jump drive \"spool-up\" time (time in which the cyno needs to be kept lit on the other side) and maybe even a temporary post-jump \"debuff\" on capacitor regeneration speed should do the trick quite nicely.the larger the ship, the longer the spool-up time... so, for instance, carrier or dread could jump in 10 to 15 seconds, a supercarrier might need 20 to 30 seconds, a titan would need even up to a full minute, but a black ops could maybe jump with but a second or two (or even no spool-up), and a freighter with somewhere along the lines of 5 seconds. you know, very rough ballpark figures.we need not just smaller-sized \"farms and fields\" (which frankly i doubt will do that much good), but on the other hand, what we do need for sure is more of the larger stuff - in particular, player owned outposts.while there might be some coding limitations to one per solar system (are there any?), from a gameplay perspective they should no longer even figure into the sov fights so fiercely (let the tcu be the only thing left as far as that's concerned)... and let us place an outpost at every planet. in fact, let us place multiple outposts per planet.and as far as \"farms and fields\" go, how about this : \"asteroid attractor gravity well generators\" placeable in asteroid belts to increase the ore respawn rates, \"anomaly stabilizers\" placeable near wormholes to increase maximum mass that can pass through and/or duration and/or even regenerate transit mass on an hourly basis, mini-pos-like structures (with no projected shield) that can be anchored anywhere (especially near gates)... all of them player-manufactured and the max allowable size of them determined by development indices (or even new ihub upgrades).also, back on the matter of player-operated stargates.first, there would need to be a limit to stargates per system by having \"unoccupied gravity resonance nodes\" (that was the correct technobabble for it, right?) be the only place you could mount one, and there would also be a need to have a separate limit with regards to size of stargates allowed in each of them (which would determine their maximum connection range).they would cost at least as much as an outpost (with similar build style), consume oodles of fuel while \"onlined\" as a main economic drawback, they are capable of being disabled through regular attacks as an additional economic drawback, would be able to be used by anybody to jump through as the huge tactical drawback to the equally important tactical advantage of having them in the first place, with only a minor economic advantage, the ability to charge usage fees for passage (based on ship mass), with corp/alliance/blues determining discounts (and that's pretty much it, enemies just pay a tad bit more).each of the gates needs to select another gate of same size in its range as jump target, and after downtime, _if_ they match, they function much like a regular gate pair. until either of them runs out of fuel. or until either of them get damaged too much by enemy attacks.ownership change does not reset the link, it has to be manually severed, and it only happens at dt too. want it down now, shoot it"
"obviously, most of the solar systems would only have one or at best two spots for small gates (lucky to even reach fully across a constellation) while some might have none, also not guaranteed to have any spots for a medium gate in many systems (to link between constellations), and very few systems per region would have a spot for large gates at all (to link across regions).also, back on the matter of wormhole stabilizers... the highest tier of it (available only with the best ihub upgrade) would be able to simply keep just the wormholes leading into wildspace from completely collapsing indefinitely... while also slowly restoring mass allowance, even if that might mean it can take quite a while to get any decently sized ship through. wormholes into normal space should be able to collapse even if you don't use them at all (at best, these structures just delaying the time to colapse).in case the structure is destroyed while \"stabilizing\" the hole, the wormhole instantly closes.all those \"farms and fields\" structures would also consume some sort of fuel, and the wormhole stabilizing ones would consume most of it.in wildspace, since you cannot claim sov, you can not anchor any of those stabilizing structures, so you have to keep defending \"the other side\" too, while also being most likely limited to a small trickle of mass (even forced to just use the pods most of the time and maintain two separate sets of ships on either side)."
"if were adding structures why not a mining platform that a barge could anchor to so they could mine more safely. i mean by the platform offering a mild shield boost so system campers dont shut every thing down just cause. one i was in null the number one killer of all indy activity was the long afk system camper. if a barge could tank a mild attack for a little bit while the main pvp force can respond to then many more would actually consider null mining to be worth will venture."
"i have done much mining in this game over time and i have done a decent amout of null mining. but i keep running in to the same short falls.if im to haul for some one else i have to spend a around a half hour play with a calculator to see what the other guy mined to buy his ore. i believe if their was a hanger to auto purchased the ore going in to it at a set rate from the hanger's owner this would inspire group mining activities in high and null.null is way to easy to shut down completely from on player in any unknown ship cloaked up chilling in local all day. i believe a mining platform that would supply a decent but weaker shield to those anchored to it. to counter its nice shield affects it could be made to burn a fuel say heavy water. it would function in a small part like a pos tower would take some anchoring and fuel to run can be left up like a pos. i believe no guns would be fine unless they feel the need for say 2 low in lasers to help with rats when no one is at the site while its left on over night.im seeing alot of complaints that null cant be self supplied on their ores i really believe such a simple unit could be very use full. i have heard of some ideas in the past an chatter that a rorq or orca should move it around but im not sold on that idea. in the spirit of pos's i was thinking it could be a multi part structure that could be upgraded able. say adding more anchor points or some thin use for towards what a mining post could be.im not sure if its a decent idea but say a high end version that a large null operation may like i would say to add a refinery that could hit perfect refining and that it would refine the ore thats placed in its auto purchase hanger.as i believe the future of pos's will be a single structure thats able to change shapes as diffrent modules are installed i believe that this mining platform could be made as the leader in this drastic rebuild of play held structures."
"yes, 0.0 eve definitely needs more people spending hours on mind numbing tedium."
"get more accounts it will be a lot less boring"
"i like the way that they seem to annoy a whole lot of people"
"tabs and varying levels of restricted access to pos ship maintenance arrays. seems kinda strange that i can stash stuff securely in corporate hanger arrays yet everyone has equal access to all the ships in the ship maintenance array.an easier way to anchor structures in specific locations. the current system is painful.need the ability to refit t3 ships. better looking towers and arrays. the towers look artistically horrible.better ui.drastically reduce or remove the penalties for refining ore.streamline the production and extraction process with moon mining and reactions. having to link multiple silos in various ways is tedious.redesign pos's and arrays so they're easier to live out of (especially so in wormholes). most 0.0 systems don't have stations which means we need to live out of and depend entirely on pos's."
"at best such a system could be introduces as kind of last days in the accademy storyline where each mission nets an appropriate skill level boosting \"data injector\"."
"oh wow this is an excellent idea."
"yes."
"one of the best ways to improve the npe is to overhaul the ui (which is already badly needed for all new eden residents). not having a million and one options thrown in their faces will help.give new players more to do than mining and mission running. mining in high sec is painful and often impossible due to the army of mining bots running unchecked and rampant. using the excuse \"new players can participate in all aspects of the game right on day one\" is crap and we all know it. they don't have the skill points, experience, nor the game knowledge to do this."
"01:52:26 hint owner pi ogan can only have 50 saved fittings.and i hardly have any fittings since i've been changed computers so much.on my old computer with all of my saved fittings there are 84 .xml files, that's just the number of ship types not including the variation of fittings for each, so a limit of 1000 might be okay."
"while 50 is a lot, i do keep a lot of different fits, usually from fits i see linked and other fits for specific things. or even humerous fits(such as a logisitics hyperion, or minerion, pvp hyperion, pve hyperion, wtferion, etc.) and it adds up quick, i do love the server saved idea, but yeah. needs more space.link a gmail account or something to it for additional space or something lol. do what most us companies are doing and outsource the stuff. :)"
"/signed for great justicethis limitation is just ridiculous."
"/signed and bumped"
"also to add on a weee bit more for science and industry. i would love to have less multiple windows pop up for starting jobs. having something all on one screen would be lovely. also curious if having something like a production/invention calculator like evemeep would be good. just have another tab that you can go through bps, select one and if you have market info exported to a file, it can use those from whatever region you want to select from and it will calculate the cost and profit of it. and same thing for invention. i figure it can't really be something that will off balance anything, since obviously it would be pretty much the same thing as what evemeep will do. but it will make things easier for new players as they won't be overwhelmed with having to install 3rd party programs and what not. plus it would keep more people focused into the game, rather then alt tabbing out all the time."
"re: default windows sizes too large...i totally agree where this is important is people with small screens. re: fonts could use a little flexibility...sometimes on a large screen it's very hare to read certain buttons or text. re: left or right menu barcould we have a large or small icon in the menu. again a large vs small screen issue"
"1) afk lightorange light to signify your afk, and perhaps allow a custom message to be displayed to people who try to contact you.\"sorry i am away for the moment, please contact such and such, or look at...blah\"2) on overview i would like to see next to the stargates what sec they lead to.3) show the actual percentage left on shield/armour/hull on targets"
"space ui- no pop-up dialog windows: making bookmarks, looking up systems, alliances, corps., etc. the problem is that these windows disable everything else.- give us back the small tactical display window. or hot keys to jump immediately between different camera zooms.- tactical overlay: display velocity vectors of ships. this should only add small load on client side.- tactical overlay: provide different grid overlay options. 1) spherical coordinate grids (current) with longitudinal angle divisions with angle numbers (00 through 36 like runway markings) on the equitorial plane 2) rectangular coordinate grids.- navigation: give us a command to fly away from things (opposite of approach).- pop-up map: show waypoints + systems in the route.- log: show new ships entering the grid. also, audio cue would be nice.- d-scan: cycle timer for scanner, so you know when you can hit it. also, give us auto-repeat.map ui- separate buttons and hotkeys and for galactic map and solar system map"
"basicly right now an older player knows things like.if i orbit to close too fast my weapons can't track. if i fly right at someone i lower the transversal velocity to 0, and thus it's like i'm not moving as far as hit% goes.however ask any player how combat works in eve and they will tell you, it's just approach and fire. orbit, shoot, forget. they will quote that there is no skill in eve combat it's just weapon range = hit change. no that i have outline what i see as a problem, here is some solutions. 1. turret tracking guide in game as part of tutorial. just stick this."
"or turn the option in the overview for this on?"
"yes becuase excel sheets in space is much better than a working ui with visual feedback. in fact, lets take what you say a step further why is our shields, armor, and hull shows with graphics? that should just be numbers on the bottom. same function right?just put everything in a list. not to mention why do i need to see the transversal for every ship and object in space.i don't need any of that information, omg clutter. just one ship, thats all i need to worry about."
"i need the transversal of all the ships in an enemy gang so i know im kiting all their damage tyvm"
"yes becuase adding an option for new players to help them understand how it works when they only have to deal with one target at a time means you won't be able to use the overview once you need more complex expanded information.and my idea totally threatens your current gameplay. less excel sheets, more ui.but nothing wrong with having excell sheets for when that's what you need. look at wow, people make custom uis so that wow looks like eve. with spreet sheets and infor all over the place. however most people don't' want or need that level of clutter.you have to have a simple system to start, with the option of more complex systems as you get more advanced, and need more information. drowning people in information is not the way to keep new players around.i hate hearing people say that eve combat is all click and forget."
"i miss that guide so much. i emailed them about one time and said they have no plans on putting it back up. idk why as it was awesome. as for this suggestion, i like it. i'm hoping when they redo the ui, they have like a little window of brief info at the target it's self. like transversal, size, type, etc. and i think the past few trailers had something similar to a little info box at the target. so something like that would be cool.and i agree, if ccp is going to focus on making the game prettier, then they should change a few things so people will actually look at it, instead of focusing on a big box of text the whole time. though i'd personally would like a gradient bar, but all the same, lol."
"support for the general idea of utilising such basic and clear methods to help move eve away from excell in space. keep the excell for people who have grown attached to it, but in many ways it's just an inconvenient clutter of information, instead of a helpful tool that allows you to take in important tactical information at a glance.things like vicible velocity vectors would help too, engine trails can provide this info too to some extent, so i could watch what is actually happening on the view screen instead of watching for numbers in the overview table. showing that raw info is pointless for most users in many cases. they just need to know when the conditions are right so that their guns have a good chance to hit and when they don't hit so often/well or at all."
"exactly. it's not about taking functionality. why do people always get so defensive at the idea of new players havign an easier time? even if it won't effect thier gameplay?also i found the old guide on eve files."
"i would say one of the best ways to deal with it all would be something akin to the \"google workload\", adapted for ccp/eve.first off, have at least one \"team bff\" (not necessarily all the current team members, nor just the current team members) to permanently work on \"little fixes\" on a constant basis and nothing else, without fixed release schedules, but encouraged to pick the workload in such a way that several new microimprovements would roll out every 4 to 10 weeks at most (hey, if they can roll out one at a time per week, great, but 3 months in between would be a bit too much). if you get two teams, or a larger team, even better. ideally, at least half of them would be volunteers as opposed to \"forced assignments\" (especially the \"leads\", if anything like that even exists at all in such a team format), and the team composition not necessarily frozen... but that's administrative/hr stuff, so i doubt it's worth dwelling on it.then, you \"split\" their workload in three separate \"strips\".the first strip (the bulk of it, say, 50%) would be determined by semi-regular crowdsourcing. in fact, one of the first assignments for (one of the (new)) \"team bff\"(s) could be to brainstorm about a way to streamline that prioritization (some rudimentary \"agenda item\" browser and a tiny evegate hook for any player to browse it and (re)distribute his personal focus choices however he sees fit. the \"team bff\" members would then also attempt to guesstimate the needed workload for some of the higher-priority items, and cherrypick the shortest estimate ones first, leaving enough time for the mass of players to \"change their mind\" about whether they still consider the larger time estimate ones important enough considering the probable workload.the second strip (the middle-sized one, say 35%) would be determined by ccp management, since, hey, they're still the boss, afterall.the third (smallest, but not too small) strip (so, the remaining 15% or so minimum) would be reserved for pet projects of the actual team bff members... whatever they personally feel would need improvement, without any \"out of the team\" influence on what that might be (no amount of player whining nor bossy...err...bosses to mess with it).most importantly, they should keep an open communication pipeline of rapid-fire updates about what they're working on right now and what the rough ideas for a fix might be, so the community as a whole could be used as a sounding board or brainstorming bucket. you know, something like a phrase or two every couple of days or so, that would be awesome."
"nice akita. though i think it doesn't stand a fireball's-chance-in-iceland of being implemented, i think the idea is a very good one. though i personally would bump up team bff's pet project share to 20%."
"space bikinis."
"all faction items should be available on the market. contracts should not be the only market for faction modules."
"damage indicator for items that can break (advanced/faction cristals and such)."
"it's also far more costly than the interceptors and doesn't have the warp speed of some of them or the resists. you're argument is subjective, comparative and other big words i don't know the meaning of.what i do know is that this whole nerf is being caused by nothing more than butthurt, plain and simple.butt hurt. hurt butt. people who's butts have been injured. as in \"omgzorz!!!111 teh dramiel is 2 fast for my cheap ship, my bad skillz and my $hit fit, not fair, nerf it wid fyre!!!\"as revealed in my book, \"10000 statistics i pulled out of my ass\", 98% of all nerf requests come from some \"crapsuleer\" who got pwnt and couldn't figure out how to get even so they ask the devs to cheat for them by making the offending vessel easier for them to counter with whatever garbage ship/skills/fit they use."
"because warp speed is always a major factor in pvp... also you will lose ten times more of any other faction/t2 frigate out there compared to the dramiel. so in the long run, the dramiel is in fact a cheaper investment."
"warp-speed? really? how many cases off the top of your head can you mention where that has been a deciding factor .. in most cases it actually gets you killed as you come out ahead of 'da blob' on long warps.resists? really? have you even flown an interceptor, last i checked they do not have t2 resists at all but only the racial resist bonus (not even sure about racial) ..not that is matters much as they don't exactly have stellar base tank values to begin with."
"are you suggesting ccp add some real consequences to piracy? this won't go well with the pirates ."
"who said they absolutely had to (besides u)? if they don't want to put in the effort to then they can live with the consequences--simple.1. such as?2. so far, i'm not getting much but \"this is stupid, this is stupid, this is stupid 'cause i said so\" x 90013. it's another example of the \"realism\" that someone thought they could use in their arguments--maybe if u actually read it, u might not be so ignorant now.4. read #11. gj on talking out your ass once again.5 & 6. which can be remedied by going above -5 or staying a -10 and using that market. what part of that don't u understand?7 & 8. see 5 & 6.9. if your corp members can't be trusted, it's your fault for doing so, especially by giving them ownership of your corp. and since u're that stupid, a spy can easily steal all your assets anyway.10. most likely, i will because u're the one ranting with half-assed arguments.11. see #2.and u trying so hard to disprove a proposal by going \"stupid stupid stupid\" while saying little else is even better because it only shows how u've got nothing. and if u really must know, i've found many -10 high sec mining alts, ripe with hulks and mackinaws; save the doll question for them 'cause i'm sure they could use a shoulder to cry on when they can't carebear behind their alt in peace."
"there are all ready real consequences to piracy. being unable to comfortably enter highsec, most notably.you, and the op, just want the bad people to go away. unfortunately for you, game mechanics explicitly allow the bad people to exist. ergo, you are playing the wrong game."
"there are a lot of people whining about csm members brushing the idea off with little thought. mainly this is because the idea is terrible. stop getting mad about csm members not thinking every idea is great and running off to tell ccp about it, that isn't what they are for. . .also to the carebears that whine about players with low sec standing - without pirates/griefers the game would be completely and utterly pointless, the thing that puts eve ahead of the other games, at least in my opinion, is that there is always that element of risk, without pirates there is no point in the game being an mmo, you might as well just play single player. being a pirate is harder than you think, making money is difficult and you tend to go through ships a lot faster than missioners (for example) . . . removing the primary source of income for some of these people i.e. stopping their industry/trader/mission alt giving them the isk they need is frankly stupid."
"can't support the proposal ofc. there are some interesting ideas in the thread tho. like taxing direct isk transfers as an isk sink. people could avoid it via contracts but then it registers in the history..."
"there are plenty of other mmos that address these 'issues' by putting in safeguards against player deceptions.why do you choose to come to a game that advertises itself as a 'cold, dark, and harsh' universe and caters to hyper competitive players, and try to change it? i think we can have a game or two in which anything goes."
"having to use alts to allow you into lo sec is a minor inconvenience. so you can stop it right there with the \"oh i cant comfortably go into hi sec wah wah\" bs.what the op proposes is an actual mechanic that is harder to bypass, thus, all the crying pirates in this thread, including you."
"i really dont like how csm responded to this idea.but idea itself is stupid (i'm not csm, so i can be like this :d)"
"this threat should of been locked after the first reply. just sayian."
"so let's say urist mcminer is jetcanning in his shiny new osprey. stabs mccutthroat strolls along and flips his can. since apparently urist is aiding and abetting stabs, his sec status is now all the way down with his.congrats, you've invented sec ganking"
"it doesn't work, it griefs huge sectors of the game for nothing more than your personal whim, and it destroys the whole sandbox thing. you cannot force people to play the game the way you want them to. how would you counter a big scary lowsec pirate contracting from his jita alt to a brand new character, then on to the -10, followed by biomassing the newbie and starting again? there's a way to get around your insane little system."
"yes, posting a simple \"no\" to a complete **** idea, is short sighted, obviously.gas this thread.tia."
"1. how exactly hard is it when a -10 can a. stay docked/safespot until he gets a bite and b. turn on his carebear alt whenever he's being camped or in any other way facing even slightest amount of risk?2. how hard would it be instead to rat up to -5?3. this is only gonna put in real consequences of being -10 by limiting their time in low sec so that prey or other players can get a better chance at venturing into low sec and not get blobbed every time, no more, no less.1. u're assuming urist and stabs aren't the same person behind the keyboard.2. revision: in high sec, the flipped will not take the sec hit and if the flipper is -5 or below, npc customs will confiscate everything he \"stole\" out of the can, in case they r the same person. good thing u brought that up so congrats, u've just helped me plug up another loophole. 1. there's your sandbox back. how hard was that?2. recycling low sec status is an exploit and bannable.3. and u'll still be devoting sp training, sp time spent, and isk on skillbooks purely on throwaways.4. u still have to haul it all the way out of jita. contracts don't haul for u."
"1. you know nothing about how lowsec works, please go live there for a while so you can understand what it is that you're doing.2. why should people have to bother when the system as it is works fine?3. it won't limit the time they spend in lowsec, it will simply make them find ways around things. you cannot eliminate lowsec piracy, that's why it's lowsec. 1. let's assume they aren't.2. so you'd like to see jetcan mining and can flipping removed entirely as well? and where did npc customs come from? theft is none of their business. all they care about is contraband. doesn't matter if the npcs ate it or the flipper stole it, urist mcminer, the newbie, has just lost out. what next? remove suicide ganking too? make highsec into hello kitty online? [/quote1. irrelevant. that's not giving the sandbox back, as it's still going to be hard as hell to actually live in lowsec without stuff getting hauled in.2. i'm sure ccp will love to devote resources to banning all of lowsec :)3. takes what, five minutes to train contracting? the high sec status hauler alt is still the one doing the moving, the newbie is just distributing.4. if you're a -10 with a highsec shopping alt, chances are you know how to haul.what would you do about leaving stuff in a corp hanger? if i'm -10 and i dump some ammo into my corp hanger, is everyone who takes it -10 now too? more sec status griefing!"
"this made me chuckle. shoot me up an email and i'll teach you how to comfortably bypass that consequence, free of charge."
"the amount of fail contained within this idea and the concepts that have been invented to support is simply amazing.remove stealing from the game? oh wait... things that get stolen get confiscated for some reason... so why is there stealing in the game at all?add sec status griefing? fix by simply removing all game features that get in the way perhaps? that'll solve that whole stealing problem!change/break corporation shares mechanic? corp hangars? corp everything?divide the entire game between red and not red? so much for that whole complete-interaction thing you were going for ccp, the bad people shot someone in lowsec so we need to drop a nerf bomb on the entire game.maybe we should split the entire eve server into 2 shards, and upon falling below -5 you're simply moved to the 'red' server, that'll fix everything.no, that's stupid.if you're too illiterate and void of thought to understand why these are bad things, frankly i'd be surprised if you're able to feed and dress yourself."
"i'm to lazy to search if someone already mentioned this,but has anyone considered the consequences of this idea on pirating? i was almost on the boat until i realized it would mean a pirate will never again get a single cent in ransom money. just saying.okay stopes being lazy and remembered the idea was about money laundering and most large isk corp theirs aren't negative sec lmao."
"i think a minor tweak will fix this issue easily ... you cannot place a minimum buy amount if you are margin trading. the fact that you can is what is enabling ppl to use this as an exploit. or if ppl want to specify a minimum amount its cool but then you have ur iskies tied up.dont want your isk tied up as a legimate trader thats cool ... but y would you care for a minimum amount ?what do you guys think ?"
"denoting wreck/loot \"ownership\" is contrary to the basic game mechanics of eve online.all wrecks should be ffa."
"loot ownership (like learning skills) has outlived it's usefulness and practicality. i agree that it's time to remove this archaic concept."
"agree."
"i also agree...if not only to see the mission runners tears overflow even more. now we don't just ninja salvage but ninja loot as well!"
"what kind of fail ninja are you that you don't loot already?and i suspect you've all neglected to realize this would render you nearly unable to bait mission runners into destruction."
"supportedafk autopiloting should not be rewarded.also my carrier aligns and warps faster than my freighter... but my freighter can beat my carrier in a sub warp speed race? wtf?"
"supported. a bonus to speed is nearly useless. the only use i can think of is for auto piloting freighters trans versing high sec."
"the prereq general ship skills all increase agility..."
"supported"
"having proposed the addition of the standings icon to locked targets, this is another logical ui improvement to aid in differentiating friend from enemy i'll support.ps.: a general solution for color blind people should be looked into independently. something like configurable colors or flashing cadences, marquee types, etc. for instance, if you have a red-green deficiency, you could switch to yellow- blue coding."
"why don't they allow the players to customize the color they want depending on the action?"
"good stuff"
"good idea of course, if color blindness is really a concern there's a simple solution that could probally be applied to other things as well...... change the bracket shape, in the case of 'assisting you' i think a simple green '+' would be fitting. i don't really think 'hybrid' brackets for helping and harming simultaneously really need to be taken into consideration."
"sure, why not?there's bound to be irrational butthurt over this, though"
"the corp services should stay (corp hangar, assets etc.) but the corp name should be deleted."
"it's more of an issue that \"back in the day\" a large number of 5 letter word tickers were taken, which means that people today have to use stupid number/letter/punctuation combinations to get what they want. it's not fair that someone can have a corp name forever if they registered it in 2003 then summarily quit 2 months later."
"i can agree that at some point a corp name/ticker should be revoked. assets would have to remain available. perhaps they could just switch the corp name to something like \"amarr corporation xxx\" like they do with bad names. then if the ceo returned, or a new one voted himself as ceo, they could petition and have a new corp name given.i think the process leading to corp name revocation should have pretty high requirements however. i think the minimum should be all of the following:1) no ceo/director log-ins within the last year2) no online pos3) no active office rentals4) less then 5 members that have logged on within the last 6 monthsand finally if a corporation took the name of a \"dead\" corp, there should be a way for people to know. i think that a line should be added to the corp attributes. it could be called original name registration or something similar to that. for a corp having the name first it would show \"yes.\" for a corp taking a old corps name it would say \"no.\""
"amusingly, i think my pirate corp would fail to meet this criteria despite having everyone active for the last year. ed: i'm not a huge fan of the idea, but i think the only way it makes any sense is if nobody from the corp has had an active account for a year - and then simply rename it."
"nope just control freaks like yourself. gee it must be so because your the one that tells everyone what to think. gee none of the nerfs or buffs we have see were due to player comments and suggestions. you truly are one of the ass hats of eve.. if you have nothing to add to the discussion but negative bashing, go get your jollies in someone else's thread please."
"\"you disagree with me, so you are flaming and trolling\" ::tinfoil::"
"max thanks for joining in on the ideas.. i like some of what you had to say. i am not stuck on forcing a wh sov structure. it just seamed like a good idea for using wh only upgrades. like i stated, could make the structures have lower ehp, or some other way to balance them. cant say i am thrilled with spawning more wh.. but that could be a draw back of using a grav belt upgrade maybe.wh dockable stations... sure make them burn some kind of fuel we have to mine from wh moons.. that works for me. i don't mind. as to destructible, that would be cool also. maybe a few ways to do that.. 1. link it to a pos. if the pos gets taken out the station can be un-anchored and scooped. 2. if it runs out of fuel, it becomes destructible. (this way if you kill off the corp living in the wh, it will go off line when they cant feed it, and drop all their goodies when it goes boom.)as for farming our static.. nope sorry we are not in a c3, we dwell in a c1i am not asking for my cake and eat it too. i know better. this is eve. for every benefit there is a drawback. i do not want to see wh space turn into new eden null sec either. i was just trying to bring to the table some ideas that we have been kicking around a while, and possibly some ideas for adding more dimension to the game."
"you seem really insecuremaybe you should see a therapist?also feel free to address the points i made about your idea, not just the points i made about how naive you are"
"points?? what points.. saw none except to say no, it wont work. and that no one's ideas are any good. geezsh some people."
"i agree with these points. as for something like moon mining, if and only if, it would only be suitable if they were small individual modules not connected to a pos.like you said, you have 50 moons. if all 50 moons are making profit over the running costs of a pos, you can have 50 large ****stars/deathstar setups and no one is going to bother to risk jumping in 2 dreads to take them all out. the idea of someone setting up a pos and making capitals just to destroy them is impractical.so having a small module that mined moons that was destroyable by typical ships would be my only way of supporting that. as for the sov upgrades. well... its kinda pointless don't you think? all you would be getting is the increase spawn of sites, and tbh, it makes well enough money as it is. ccp just nerfed the hell out of 70% of null space value. i really don't think they will do anything to increase the profitability of it. nor should they. the sov structures would also need to be a lot weaker as well. and for outposts, that would make it a bit too easy as you can jump clone to outposts and store unlimited amounts of stuff there. so one could find the opportune time to store fuel, and scouting alt and never have to worry about fueling up a pos during a period where the pos needs to be refueled. hell, you wouldn't even need a pos with an outpost. the ideas are cool, i give you that... but its really off balancing things as it would be making things a lot safer and a lot more profitable."
"try this one dumbass"
"i live in wh space...almost 2 (yeah..two..i am insane i know :d ...) years now...and as for your proposal(s)...no...no...no...no... no no noand noif you turn wh-s in something like rest of k-space..the wh-s would not be wh-s anymore...hence not fun :p"
"ccp hates people that live in wormholes. they have said before that they never intended for people to live in them permanently. how dare we not want to take part in their 0.0 clusterf*** blobfest? so i doubt they will ever do anything to make our game easier.i don't think we need sov, evictions aren't exactly an easy thing to pull off as it stands anyways and making it harder would be unwelcome. but i am sick and tired of living out of the terrible pos system ccp slapped together years ago and never revisited."
"got a link to back this statement up?"
"just saying that you have very very obviously never attempted to handle wh logistics. 50 deathstars for moon mining? that could only happen with a direct hs static and even then its not easy. you would have to break about 2-3 exits a day (assuming every exit can handle roughly 900k m3 of fuel being run through it in either an itty 5 or an actual freighter) to get that kind of fuel into the wh. i dont care who you are maintaining that many large pos inside of a wh is nothing short of freaking amazing and near god like."
"i edited it a little to focus on points of interests: - im not sure you got my idea of upgrades, spawning more wh is not a downside, its a upside. it is the nonus we need. more wh means, more systems to farm, more chances for pvp, more chances for hi-sec exit (we live in c6 - sometimes, when we are not into closing wh over and over again we can go half a week without hi-sec route)anything that increase spawn ratio of sites inside your current wh just turns it into another 0.0 system upgrade. i dont think ccp wants wh dwellers (here goes fallout again :p - sorry couldnt help myself :p) to just sit inside their system like in giant bunker. - the idea of docking itself is what i dont like. always try thinking about changes not only from your side - i.e. \"im sitting in wh and i dont like that i cant dock so i can store my 100000 bazylions of ship and multi million tons of tritanium and taht i cant be scanned when im in there, and i want to be albe to clone myself into station from hi-sec\".think about attackers that goes into your wh, they see your pos, they keep eye on you for more than an hour, mapping all active platyers, watching closelly as you do your rounds of sleeper sites, sporadiccally showing for few seconds to observe if you use d-scaner, maybe drop a core or two to get your interest if you sit in a pos and do nothing. if you can just sit in a station all this would be lost, all the fun of hunter-pray games would be gone.the idea of wh is that you have to live on short supplies, if you can just clone into wh, it will be no longer a wh.if you can just dock in system to hide, store ships and cargo, its no longer wh.again, i agree that pos'es need more attention, and i'm glad current csm is onto it.now going further with your station idea of destructability, just for the sake of argument. few days, are you mad? wh is about small scale engagement. unless you go for a siege you dont bring more than 20 ships usually. taking down a pos in wh takes roughly a weekend (you start shooting at friday night and finish mid-day on sunday). this is long enough already. destruction of any stationlike thing should just fall into this timeline. but not additional, its just goes of with the rest of the pos. or, it should niot be protected by forcefield, so it can be reiforced and after that destroyed within a day tops. and i dont think it even should have reinforce timer.i'm sory about being so sceptical about your ideas. i've spent my share of time in 0.0, a little in low and now im going for half a year in wh. i dont want wh to be easy in turns of getting more money making sites or just by being able to have station-like luxury in there. wh needs more self-sustainability, not more cash. it needs to be albe to repair modules, reproces then, repackage, have sources of ice (maybe another use of moon mining). and more connetctions. more connections. more fun .... profit? - now back to farming your static subject. so you live in c1, what static do you have there?"
"i love that idea."
"preatty much this. fix pos mechanic + give us source of ice (maybe solo moon mining like someone sugested) and i will be more than happy to live in wh for another half of year."
"i've lived in a simple high-sec static c1 for many months now.i've often thought it would be nice to moon mine there for profit, and something else to get into.unfortunately i understand that moon mining would destroy the way wh life currently is. having 50 moons in my system would be plenty of incentive for a wh corp to take over and push me out. you would then be looking at worse than 0.0 sov holdings due to the increased logistical difficulties of a large scale assault.right now small independent corps can live and operate in wh space. moon mining would destroy that.stations in wh's... nosov in wh's... no (i hear enough arguments that sov has ruined 0.0)upgrades in wh's... ehhh... have to really research pros/consredesign pos mechanics... yes"
"idea not supported, wormholes are the last places of freedom in space.edit:we need that."
"how about a little of the current setup and a little of the op's idea with a different spin?"
"what reason is that? (other than ccp saying no)"
"more pvp for everyone."
"yes please."
"this would be awesome."
"if you want more pvp get out of high sec."
"you want to troll me gd is <--------- that way.i wont answer to anything here after this.a simple thumb down would have been enough.you guys got enough pvp out in null and low sec.this is a whole other topic."
"please make it easier for me to gank mission running battleships kk?"
"no, he is raising a point in which others will read and have their opinion influenced. you need to learn proposals have 2 sides. i also think no because it destroys a profession and makes it a bit harder to kill idiots in multi-billion isk ships in lvl 4's."
"way too many dumb safe mission runners who think their pirate bs vs a salvage destroyer is equivalent risk."
"i would like to have this seen by the new csm for more imput and feedback. this idea can be easily fleshed out and mines could be revived."
"i have done much mining in this game over time and i have done a decent amout of null mining. but i keep running in to the same short falls.if im to haul for some one else i have to spend a around a half hour play with a calculator to see what the other guy mined to buy his ore. i believe if their was a hanger to auto purchased the ore going in to it at a set rate from the hanger's owner this would inspire group mining activities in high and null.null is way to easy to shut down completely from on player in any unknown ship cloaked up chilling in local all day. i believe a mining platform that would supply a decent but weaker shield to those anchored to it. to counter its nice shield affects it could be made to burn a fuel say heavy water. it would function in a small part like a pos tower would take some anchoring and fuel to run can be left up like a pos. i believe no guns would be fine unless they feel the need for say 2 low in lasers to help with rats when no one is at the site while its left on over night.im seeing alot of complaints that null cant be self supplied on their ores i really believe such a simple unit could be very use full. i have heard of some ideas in the past an chatter that a rorq or orca should move it around but im not sold on that idea. in the spirit of pos's i was thinking it could be a multi part structure that could be upgraded able. say adding more anchor points or some thin use for towards what a mining post could be.im not sure if its a decent idea but say a high end version that a large null operation may like i would say to add a refinery that could hit perfect refining and that it would refine the ore thats placed in its auto purchase hanger.as i believe the future of pos's will be a single structure thats able to change shapes as diffrent modules are installed i believe that this mining platform could be made as the leader in this drastic rebuild of play held structures."
"i like this idea, it would essentially be buy orders except right at the pos for ore. would be nice and would promote mining in other systems instead of cluster ****ing a mimatar station. (though i'm sure some people will cry that they won't have all their miners to kill in one spot lol). but yeah, wouldn't reduce the flow of logistics, wouldn't be \"moar carebear\" or anything. just takes less of the excel **** out of eve. would probably inspire more corps to have more organized building stuff. i have seen some of the stuff some drf corps do for mining and quite frankly, it's a lot of work, mostly in excel. and excel is boring."
"i'd take this to the farms and fields thread if i were you. in null, this could be a good target for small gangs, as well as a handy thing for the carebears to play with."
"care bear's if their to be named still need some help for the inferior barge damage taking. thus shutting down null and any potential of cheaper ships for the core that their trying to build for"
"i have a simple suggestion use the client side process to determine if it can hit the target.. offload some of the work to the clients the server doesnt have to handle all of the mechanices.there's nothing that cant be done. (some famous guy quoted.)i'd use the display graphics to determine if an object is there. there has to be some way. i understand it's a lot of physics. just one of those fundamental flaws that sticks in your craw when playing and you know it's not acting realistic."
"i like the idea of some kind of cover mechanics, at some point. not too realistic, but a compromise of some degree just to add a bit more realism to the game. i think others are correct to say that the technology just couldn't manage it right now, especially on top of the existing lag problems. but the future is just around the corner and i think it'll soon enough be a possibility."
"hilariously exploitable."
"unfortunately as much as thats an awesome thing for a single player flight sim styled combat space game, its very difficult to do for 1000+ players on todays most advanced commercially available computer tech.ccp have to do all of the physic computations otherwise clients will hack the client side and hey presto, nobody can damage u. thats a pretty ridiculous hack, practically the god button in eve tbh.as much as i love ur thoughts on a \"perfect\" eve, its next to impossible at the moment. although.... if you could build a workable quantum computer and give it to ccp it might work! tho ccp might spill some coffee or dead rotten fish all over it and blow it up accidently!"
"if you think longer about it it might be a counter to the massive blobs we have todaycause how many times do you shoot thou a fleetmember before you hit the target ?if you then damage that fleetmember instead of the enemyhuge fleets would kill themselves :dresulting in smaller fleets and then the server should be able to handle itbut in the first few days i fear that the server will die a lot"
"or it'd just result in fleets operating at wing level, maybe even squad for people like pl. same number of ships, just smaller units."
"this won't work out, and probally won't work out for a very long time. however if and/or when the servers have been vastly upgraded and eve's terribly old half-dead core code is completely redone, this idea would be excellent."
"how about instead of having npc 0.0 a static negative security status, the more a system has faction npcs killed in it (specifically belt rat and anomaly/signature rats, not mission rats), the higher the security status will go (up to a certain point lower than 0.0), and when an npc 0.0 system has a small amount of ratting in it, or no ratting, the security status will decrease over a period of a few weeks (or any other arbitrary amount of time) to -1.00. this would address certain systems being ratted all the time, and also it would improve immersion in that a faction does not have an infinite number of pilots, and in killing them off their numbers will decrease in a given area. certain factors could factor in to the rate of decrease of security status, such as number of belts, number of stations, number of planets, etc., but the basic idea would stay the same, more ratting = higher security status, less rating = lower security status, for npc 0.0 only."
"why the limits? with the recent nullsec nerf, this should be rolled out for all of null if it goes anywhere."
"the only nullsec that small alliances can get in to currently is npc nullsec, which in nerfing just hurt the small guys. as well sov 0.0 can be upgraded, whereas npc cannot, so npc nullsec would benefit from having dynamic security status more than sov 0.0. i'm not saying that it couldn't be rolled out for all of null, but it is most useful in npc."
"jump drive for large capital ships that don't need a cryno ship to jump to. increase range if used from a booster jump pos station.drawback: must be built with a new mineral found in randomly seeded veld. in low sec. when mining the veld it will pop into your hold, but you can't tell what roid will have it unless you mine it.what would happen would be a gold rush into low sec by alliances for control of low sec space for mining operations. this would make the natives of low sec go on the war path. ^^"
"capitals don't need a larger jump radius. also, alliances wouldn't mine for themselves (lol), they'd just buy it. finally, this random mining aspect suggested is crap."
"i don't follow the logic in a cyno jump drive that doesn't require a cyno field...how much of a boost range are you talking about? 5%, 50%? 5% would be more reasonable, if it happened. and booster jump pos station?(player owned station station btw). so is it a module on the ship, an upgrade to the ship stats itself, or just an open ended jump bridge for capitals only? where would the ship spawn at in the new system?whats the actual purpose and reasoning to this idea? i really can't support this as it lacks detail of why this should happen. to be honest, it sounds like a plan for you to get more kills while in low sec more then any form of game change."
"i click random buttons too."
"csm6 opted to forego player base consideration altogether and instead push their own agenda. dropping all support for dozens of widely supported enhancements and changes requested by the player base.it seems their motto is that every other csm before 6 sucked and they (csm6) are the best thing since hot buttered bread and they know what's best for the players.it's what happens when you vote a bunch of nullsec goons into office. kinda like real life :p"
"actually, you'll find that the topics we plan on discussing at the summit in may is the overarching umbrella of a lot of the little issues that players have voted on previously - using the thread below and also the wiki article it references."
"supported.i'll take quality over quantity any day. in the end, if you have large quantities of features that are low quality broken unfinished and not polished, what you really have is just a very large pile of steaming ****.we want high quality game features, ccp. not steaming piles of ****."
"supported ofc."
"supported. i joined eve 1.5 yrs ago. i'm not some elite vet with all these awesome skills, etc. i'm a fairly new player who came to this game after listening to 3 yrs of bragging from a roommate.i was intrigued by the depth of thought which went into the development of the game and how players interact.after the last 2 expansions i have been a part of (tyrannis, incursion) i find myself scratching my head. surely the same company that my roommate was bragging about is not the same company that i have experienced. i don't even know what 'the good ole days' were, but just by word of mouth they sound better than what we have been getting recently.durin"
"or, alternatively, 0.0 would need to become more self-sufficient to avoid the mind-numbing tedium of that and the potential proliferation of station plus the other stuff makes it more likely for people to come closer to self-sufficiency, since one of the main draws of highsec is the insane number of stations, and therefore s&i slots available. importing skillbooks and blueprints sure doesn't need a freighter, if you could fit most of the needs for a few months of an entire region in a frigate easily. so that only leaves datacores and lp-purchased items as the remaining big draw of highsec."
"but, :effort:! they have grown accustomed to living on microwave dinners and now loathe the idea of having to prepare a meal even though it is better for themselves and the community as a whole.two biggest hurdles that i can see are:- solving the mineral supply, without making people want to suicide out of boredom from mining.- increasing number of slots available for manufacture/research to actually meet the needs. sort those and everything else falls into place."
"if you remember, we had a discussion a couple of months ago that was exactly about this.link:"
"give electronic attack ships a new role and game mechanic, allowing them to temporarily disable certain player resources (moon miners, station services, custom offices, etc) and even raid/steal resources. this will give a way to 'burn' the farms, aswell as raid them. possibly prevent eaf from using cloaks to balance it. it will also give the eaf a new role, which would increase its usage.as for a new type of 'farm'...ccp has mentioned planetary rings. why not be able to set up mining colony's within the rings, and harvest their resources passivly, similar to the pi system. mineral yields would depend upon the planet type and possibly true sec status, or industry level and upgrades in the ihub. would also be a new farm to burn with the eaf idea. then again, low sec/npc null sec corps would have an easier way to get minerals...steal it from somebody else. would possibly increase pvp by forcing hd fleets to form more quickly or risk losing resources to a roaming gang.as for keeping t2 production in null sec, perhaps a new discovery system for moons. new types of probes that could find a limited resource on moons. i dont forsee people placing poss on moons just to snatch up so many units of moon goo and then moving it on when it runs dry, though. perhaps it would be used on moons that already have poss n them for other reasons? not a great idea, but an idea none the less."
"personal industrial array - a station upgradeshort description:introduce personal station \"upgrade\" modules, called industrial arrays, which will allow individual players to have their personal manufacturing slots in player owned stations. you need to pay the installation/maintenance fee to the owner, have sufficient standings with the station owner and have appropriate skill to use it.about industrial arrays - bullet version:- built from simple materials (minerals/pi stuff) - why: t2 materials are too \"touchy\" and prone to be monopolized. this eliminates t2 material whines and can buff the pi market by increasing demand;- industrial array gets a bit of damage every time it's used. set it up that it would be completely useless and destroyed after some time of using it actively. an array must then be replaced. - why: boosts the economy, requires effort from users and regulates production cost.- each array creates 1 manufacturing slot for the owner. you can have maximum 11 arrays active (limited by skill), to cover all manufacturing slots that a character can have;- different arrays for different types of manufacturing slots - much like current pos assembly arrays. types of arrays that one can use are limited by the level of a new industrial arrays skill. you can even implement these arrays so that they can not produce capital components and ships and leave that side of the production to pos-es only, to avoid buff to the capital/supercap spam;- industrial arrays can have material modifiers that would make a balance when it comes to high to low end ore ratio.- if station gets conquered by a hostile entity, the new owner can destroy your arrays and you will lose materials and blueprints that were used in active manufacturing jobs;- an anchor of personal industrial arrays would be a new station service similar to fitting, cloning or other services. it could be made visible and vulnerable like any other station service. when it gets incapacitated, all active jobs will be paused until the service gets repaired. reasons behind the changes and detailed explanation: stuff in empire is cheap because of two main reasons: abundance of basic minerals (trit, pyerite, mexallon,...) and availability of almost unlimited numbers of manufacturing slots in npc stations. until mining gets some kind of revolutionary fix, there will always be a shortage of basic minerals in nullsec, because, as we all know, no one moved to nullsec to mine veldspar. additionally, a limited amount of public manufacturing slots will become queued up if the production is forced to be done locally and even the most basic t1 stuff and ammo will be monopolized by the corporations that own the stations and have private manufacturing slots in them. it will also hurt the simple member of a corporation without sufficient roles to use those private slots and will make only a few people in the corporation very rich while everyone else suffers (that is not a good and healthy environment).with industral arrays as upgrade modules in player owned stations, individual players will get the initiative to start their own manufacturing businesses. combined with mineral modifiers, even the not-so rich/skilled players that can't fly/afford rorquals/jump freighters can start contributing to the local production. this will result in more localised production, more stuff on the market and lower prices (slightly above empire) which will lead to more pvp, because when you always have cheap local stuff, there's no need to be afraid to go in small gang instead of waiting for a blob that makes you, as an individual, relatively safer."
"why should industrial arrays be damaged over time? the minimum cost per hour in an npc station for a single manufacturing slot is 333 isk. on a monthly level that's roughly 240,000 isk + job installation cost of 1,000 isk per job. (in jita, for example, this is 807 isk per hour or roughly 581k isk). industrial arrays that last for a month could have a price tag between 250 and 600k isk - enough space to make a difference between different types of arrays without adding up to the cost of the final product. additionally, when you install an array of a certain type and you decide to \"unplug\" it from the station to fit another one, the unplugged array will be destroyed. manufacturing effectiveness will then depend only on player's capability to handle production and plan ahead.why material modifiers and not something else, like denser low-end ore versions? because denser low-end ore versions will bring the biggest mining profitability nerf possible. denser ore versions in deep 0.0 space will solve the low-end materials problem, but it will also make low-end minerals worthless and the highsec economy would collapse along with the mining profession. by introducing carefully balanced material modifiers to personal industrial arrays, we'll only have balanced modifications of high/low end mineral requirements without messing with the material supply. players that have means of exporting high-end minerals from 0.0 space while still making profit would still export it. players that have means of importing low end minerals from highsec while still making profit would still import it. but the most important part is that players that want to gather materials in 0.0 space and use it for local production, without depending on imported materials, would also have means to do it and profit from it, while not having to focus on mining veldspar. of course, since a system and whole economy of 0.0 space would change if these changes go live, i can only guess, and not predict for certain, that 0.0 population will be much more diverse than it is now and that there will be players that will focus on extraction of low end ore for profit even in 0.0 space.conclusion and effects:if we want to boost local production in nullsec, drive the prices down and seed the market, because we want to have more small gang pvp in relatively cheap ships that you as an individual can afford to lose, give the ability to simple members of an alliance to contribute to the production and market seeding and see what happens. the only way to seed nullsec market with locally produced stuff is to give the initiative to simple members to contribute while avoiding corporate bureaucracy, adding personal effort and personal investment.a healthy, well seeded market full with items that are produced locally with locally extracted ore will be beneficial to everyone. small alliances that don't hold whole regions of space and multiple stations can again survive in 0.0 space if they have enough capable individuals that are willing to deal with the industrial side of the game. players in large alliances will again (after leaving highsec to join the alliance) get the possibility to build stuff independent from the corporate bureaucracy that is present in the big alliances, mostly because of the valid security reasons. additionally, small industrial oriented alliances will benefit from selling the goods to large pvp oriented alliances. alliances will be much more careful who they blue, because bad blues would not be a threat only on the battlefield, but on the market too. even alliances that are not internally strong enough will have a decent amount of failscade space, if free economy where every individual can compete on the market would make clashes in their member base. in one word, the political landscape of 0.0 space will become much more colorful and interesting, instead of current black-and-white landlord-pet picture with the dominant shoot-or-grind mentality."
"1.0"
"pretty sweet, the personal industry array nicely covers the material and slot bottleneck as well as dodging the pos / slot access issue. while it does not help with farming, you could blend it with something like the player-based incursions."
"i think the dependence of nullsec on jita has less do do with a lack of local resources, and more to do with the armies of macro and slave miners in empire that produce cheap ore. you can already get upgraded belts in conquerable null, pi prooduces pos fuels now, and moon goo is everywhere from lowsec to null. the problem with belts in 0.0 is that mining barges cost 200 mil and have negligible defensive capabilities. so a skilled purifier can make quick work of industrial workhorse ships. if you want farmers in null, then you need to elaborate on ship classes made to operate in deep space. when the pioneers went to the frontiers in the early days of the usa, they took or created the tools for the job. even maw & paw's wagon train had rifles and blades handy. still, none of this will change market realities. if a bunch of 3rd world slaves will mine tritanium for almost nothing in empire, then nullsec players will never be bothered to produce it locally. the empire slaves can produce at the same rate with zero risk. also, empire has more assembly lines availiable than even the best player built outpost. nullsec has too many bottlenecks and risks to be competitive with the safe green pastures of empire space.i'm also not too keen on bringing more farmers to null. the great anomaly nerf only recently drove mobs of sanctum farmers away, and it is the best change i've seen to null in 2 years.one possibilty that might work would be making the hauling of base ores undesireable. as it stands now you only need to fill a jf with 425mm railguns or something similar and cart it to any said supercap procuction area, refine and build. there is no incentive to produce locally when you can fit a super capitals worth of minerals in a rhea. this might have the added bonus of forcing power blocs to actually produce their own super cap blobs and curb the nyx and aeons online trend we have seen since dominion. that could also have the downside of further reinforcing the drone rmt supercapital production line which is already protected on 3 sides by jumps too long to make with capitals. any tampering with ore on this level would warrant a long hard look at drone regions drop rate and would probally warrant adding a region or two of npc null space between geminate and kavela to allow capital movement."
"make it harder to haul and null buys less from high sec. that leads to mineral prices crashing in high sec. there is no incentive for them to stop mining ore until the market becomes over-filled with trit sell orders and collapses. there are no variable costs involved in mining in high sec, so this decision point never triggers."
"a reprocessing nerf at null sec stations or a tax based on how many items have jumped thrue a gate over the last 48 hours seems the easiest way to go. this would make the tranport of ore to jump freighters more interesting as mass before tax at the gates becomes another point of contention during null sec wars and another isk sink. wh's if you find the right ones would allow a way to get around the tax."
"ok after reading the entire thread and seeing what others have said and combining it with my brief nullsec experience i have come up with my own thoughts on the matter.firsti believe the fix depends heavily on stations, starbases(pos's) and updating how they are handled. my beliefs on this are partly inspired by eve lore.the lore inspirationcapsuleers are the pinnacle of new eden's modern society. we are the elite. our isk, while each individual unit is insignificant, normal citizens of our galaxy revel at the value. our currency is far more valuable than any local currency, peroid. this is why according to lore countless civilians will line up for jobs on a capsuleer ship despite the extremely high risk of death. npc corporations, and thus the empires within hi-sec are not capsuleer based. they do not have the capability run operations that yield the same potential as much smaller capsuleer operations. as such, is it not a sound belief that an empire of capsuleers would be far more productive and well off than an empire based off of \"normal\" citizens? i believe so.stationsthe changes i would like to see to stations are pretty small really; here is a quick bullet pointed list.remove perfect refining from npc stations. instead require a pos (pos refinery in next post) and perfect skills to do that task, or a null outpost allow outpost refineries to be upgraded to the point of fulfilling perfect refining like current npc stations.allow outposts to be upgradable to the point of having ~500 research or manufacturing slots, but not high amounts of both.as far as the refinery efficiency change is concerned, this would make mining any ore in nullsec much easier to refine than in hisec, reinforcing the capsuleer <> non-capsuleer dichotomy. put plain and simple, our s*** is better. also a change like this means miners will be more inclined to mine in nullsec as it is easier to get higher profits from your work without max-skilling your character. this in turn means more mineral production, and possible exports from nullsec.the suggestion for increased research & manufacturing slots is quite simply to help combat the fact that it is easier to produce in high-sec. the real solution to this problem, imho, is pos's.starbases (pos's)i'll start this off with a simple fact; anyone who has lived out of a pos in their current state for any length of time has come to somewhat the same conclusion. they need drastic improvement. as such here is a list of improvements i would like to see to pos's.impliment the pos's flogging the dead horse modulization of starbasesmake the starbases dockabledrastically increase the storage capabilityeveryone who docks gets a personal ship & item hangar that uses shared max m3 that is upgradable on the tower through more storage mods, providing increased personal security vs other members of the corp.corporate hangars use the same m3 shared storage, but behave the same way as a corp hangar at an npc station.these changes to pos's would in effect turn them into mini-stations so to speak, except they will still lack the market, infinite storage, and invulnerability of their larger outpost brethren. by providing the pos's with these changes you create, or rather enhance players existing ability to to live out of these facilities and be productive while enjoying themselves in what feels like a safe environment. (let's face it, sitting in your ship next to a control tower when you're 'docked' feels kinda lame.also, a ccp dev did state at fanfest that they want all kinds of structures to allow us to enjoy wis. eventually pos's will need to be reworked in order to allow this; what better method than to rework it with the goal of making null easier to industrialize."
"for what purpose? to reduce the pvp and thus players in null sec? it is hard to pvp if it is hard to find ships/fittings, which don't magically appear in outposts any more than they do in pirate stations. there has to be a rational reason for players to mine low ends in null and there isn't one with your nerf. what your suggestion will do is increase the price of low end minerals in null sec and increase the price of high ends in high sec for no net benefit to anyone. if the nerf is severe enough, people won't haul minerals between null and high. high sec will starve of high ends and null sec will pay almost the same for low ends as high ends. again, no net benefit."
"rolesroles at pos's are currently a huge problem. if they were to change with the method mentioned in my previous post, a complete reworking of the roles system would no longer be needed. though some roles do need a touch-up. here are some changes i'd like to see with the roles, given the idea of dock-able starbases is implemented.allow the ability to \"based at\" a corporation member to a starbas, preventing the necessity to give blanket access to them all.allow factory & lab slots deployed at a starbase to be rented out on a personal basis. (ie, \"use: corporate\" allows corp members to rent it personally while selecting \"alliance\" lets any alliance members who can dock at your starbase use it. setting it to \"official\" allows only those with the appropriate rent factory & lab slot roles to use it, and only on behalf of the corp as it works currently.change rent factory/lab slot role to allow installation of a job on a corporate level. removing the necessity for the factory manager role.factory manager - quite simply this role after the above change would be used solely for it's assumed intended use of managing the factories. this role would allow the individual to monitor both corporate, and personal slot usage, and cancel or deliver jobs as needed.security officer - in a starbase this role would allow you to remove items/ships out of a players personal hangar. as space is limited and the corporation owns the tower, this is required, imo. trust in your ceo and his delegated staff is implied in circustances like this.roles such as security officer & factory manager should be able to be set on a \"based at\" level so administrators can be set for certain pos's.starbase (pos) refiningstarbases should be capable of refining at perfect levels with max skills, in exchange for the convenience of getting perfect refine at a pos, the refinery takes time to process the ore. a million m3 for example could take 10 hours as a loose example. conclusion & summarybasically the changes mentioned for the stations, combined with those to pos's, and the roles used for them would allow for a massive degree of control and ability to delegate, which in a heavy industry corporation is extremely needed if everyone is to be able to do their jobs on a corporate and personal level. adding these changes will allow for the use of these existing resources much more effectively when performing industrial operations in nullsec. this will also allow those corporations who wish to remain in hi-sec the ability to create their own homes and possibly even drive further conflict in hisec as moons will be more sought after, if for anything other than placing your hisec corps little slice of heaven. now that i have my view on industry sorted out.. let me get to the small gang warfare! . . .in a new post."
"reading this thread is very interesting. being an outsider looking in i see everyone is complaining about minerals.so..... to push industry into low and null sec the first easy step should be to:nerf all high sec refining yield heavily.low sec gets current rates.null gets \"buffed\" refining maybe from an upgrade.basically make moving minerals from high -> null sec unprofitablemoving ore just to get a refining bonus would be risky and an utter pain (ore is much bigger than minerals)to prevent the module reprocessing exploit that you would see from this module reprocessing will get no refining \"buff\" from reprocessing in null sec.would this not force some form of null sec industrialisation and combat empire mining bots?"
"is mineral compression a problem that needs to be fixed? are jump bridges actually a mistake? are nullsec logistics actually too easy?what would the impact on nullsec industry be if we fixed pos roles and added a \"personal hangar array\" giving individuals the ability to securely store things at a pos, with the ability to build from and deliver to personal hangars?would nullsec industry benefit from better refining through a pos refining/reprocessing structure that provides 30% base efficiency but responds to player skills and implants?what would the impact on nullsec industry be if the hulk was given double the current shield hp?"
"encouraging small gangs to roam into nullthis is hard. most people who haven't gone out to null and lived there, at least for a few days, are afraid of it. why? stories of power-blocs, massive blobs, etc. the reality is these things do happen, but a small gang is pretty much able to move freely with minimal resistance from what i've experienced recently.now i know this topic is extremely flammable around these parts, but my opinion on this, is that local is the problem. yes, i am a proprietor of delayed local in nullsec. i won't get into a debate on it, but i do want the csm to see my reasons why i think local is a bad thing, and how it would help fix their proposed problem.so here are a few reasons i think delayed local in nullsec is good:promotes picketing (def 4 & 5).picketing results in teamwork, which in an mmo is a good thing.picketing also results in combat pilots who want to pvp being stationed to protect industrialists who are mining being the front line when roaming gangs show up. initiating small gang combat. whilst combat is engaged, industrialists have time to flee to relative safety. this gives both sides of the pvp'ers what they want, a fight.promotes more wide-spread usage of the starmap and it's extremely large amount of delayed data. yes, delayed is good, it means it's fallible. perfect free intel is bad for gameplay.promotes fear and uncertainty when alone. let's face it, despite there not being concord, null shouldn't feel safe unless you have friends to back you up.impedes solo work & botting. while both of this will inevitably continue at an extent, a single player running a one man multi account mining op or even monitoring several bots in a system becomes a much riskier operation, and makes the botters cannon fodder for those at the keyboard. this is obviously a good thing. anything to discourage automation!promotes use of wormholes as a method of bypassing pickets, and potentially gaining access to systems that are active. as with anything involving wormholes though, it's all about your luck, regardless of which side of it you're on.promotes bottling - from what i saw in my brief stint in null, the player base is very spread out, everyone holding as much sov as they can and spreading out so everyone essentially has their own personal slice. alliances and corporations would be more encouraged to \"bottle up\" as close together as possible to ensure pickets and security nets are more secure and response time of fleets is quicker when a hostile is spotted. the bottling in turn increases the ease of logistics when performing the industry work for an entire alliance. while it may still be required, you likely wouldn't need to go 7 jumps to get to the closest outpost.additionally this may prove to free up some space in null for newer corps and alliances to come bottle themselves up. obviously new blood and additional space for people to take over is a good thing.now with all those reasons you obviously need something to give the defenders some sort of edge for living there. obviously you can't defend a gate with a pos. you can however introduce deployable equipment such as mines, turrets and other fun stuff to make picketing and defending a system against small gangs more interesting. assuming you have the isk ofcourse.my personal favorite is setting up a minefield around a stargate, any neutral or hostile that comes in has to safely scramble through it and whatever warp disruption bubbles you may have placed to prevent them from easily escaping it.basically my vision is to take away the free perfect intel, and use that as an excuse to add more toys to defend with. oh, and if the attacker is wiley enough, they might just bring their own deployables! ;)"
"and that would be bad because? if a majority of the low-end minerals peddled in high-sec is from bots (as claimed time and again) and the end goal of this whole exercise is to help null declare their independence from jita domination, then who cares? (sorry chribba, nothing personal ).in the ideal world null production should reach a level where they become exporters and not just a black hole spitting out moon-goo when markets are favourable."
"the problem has more to do with the low end minerals in null sec. basically, who in their right mind would mine veldspar in null sec when they could be mining crokite or arkonor? this would simply lead to an increase in high end supply, leading to noticeable price decreases for ship for a little while before supply and demand stabilize with fewer people mining in null. really, that would be a harsh nerf to the drone regions and do little to convince people to mine low ends in null sec.it is great until you realize the massive market disruption associated with such a change. unless you enjoy ninja mining high end resources, then doing the actual manufacturing of pretty much every single module and ship you use for a few months while the markets stabilize, i don't think you would like the results all that much. even when they stabilize, there will be a lot more scarcity and higher prices for pretty much everything."
"as for missing dominion features, what about treaties allowing simple things such as docking rights in return for percentages of sales or refining? or the right to anchor structures in return for isk/month?"
"i am writing the final pos misery proposal document for the csm based on various inputs, including this thread.one idea i'm developing is a way to 'specialise' towers, in a similar fashion to the way t3 ship sub-systems or i-hub upgrades work. the idea is that inserting a certain upgrade into a tower unlocks new abilities or precludes others. we could also weave in the new ai developed for sleepers to make those weapons more effective when automated.for example, one upgrade may perform better against supercapitals (or automatically focus on their fight-bombers) but becomes more vulnerable to battleships. another may increase moon mining yield at the cost of shield hitpoints. the end goal of this is to make towers more interesting and varied, as well as giving more opportunities to use a wider variety of fleets ingame. here are a few examples of ideas i've had so far:siege toweronly large guns can be onlined (no smalls or meds). massive damage increase, huge tracking penalty and a sig radius bonus to all external modules. energy neutralizers gain a rof bonus, ecm modules become effective vs supercaps, and warp scramblers can tackle them. stasis webs cannot be onlined on a tower with this upgrade.makes the tower deadly vs capitals and super-capitals, but very vulnerable to battleships.logistics toweronly small and med guns can be onlined (no larges). reduction in cpu/grid use of cyno beacon and jump bridge modules. removes random locking delay for modules and grants them a scan resolution bonus. any modules on this tower become incapacitated upon recieving armour damage.makes the tower deadly against small ships, such as bombers and other gankers. however it becomes much easier to disable by a heavier force such as rr bs or lone capitals.industry towerreduces cpu cost of industry modules like reactors and labs, at the cost of shield hitpoints. shield hardeners cannot be onlined on a tower with this upgrade.support towerincreases the capacity of chas and smas, along with their access range. medium guns use less grid and recieve a slight range bonus. the tower loses any inbuilt shield resistances and shield hardeners cost triple cpu to online.i'm open to suggestions on what other specialised purposes towers could have. also what limitations should there be on these specialisations, if any? e.g. should the upgrades be disallowed in high-sec, or even low-sec?"
"some sort of change to the mechanics to allow easier management/configuration/setup of personal poss. better management of pos rolesas it stands, single users are unable to set up their own personal poss without receiving corp roles that give them access to every pos; if this was changed to allow corps micromanagement of which users were allowed to config specific poses (e.g. a trusted group that was allowed to config all poss, a logistics group that manages, say, jb poss but not supercap staging poss, and also managing poss specifically: allowing eveguy x to access y pos in z system that he rats in), this would be much more practical.from a corp viewpoint, they could manage pos security far easier, while allowing more users to help with logistics, but not in a way that potentially compromises them in the case of a spy. from the corp/alliance member's viewpoint (the \"little guy\"), this means they would be able to set up their own personal pos (to safe up while ratting, for example), with much less hassle.persistent pos passwordson a slightly unrelated note, making the entering of pos passwords (and by extension, jump bridge passwords) persistent would be great: having to enter a password 10 times going up and down the z0rtal is somewhat irritating. if the password was persistent, this would be much more pleasant.xttz: your ideas seem pretty good, i like the specialized tower idea."
"raiding towerreduced hpslightly reduced cpu & pgslightly reduced fuel costno reinforcementmassively reduced anchor & un-anchor timeslightly reduced build cost"
"congratulations. you just invented the small tower!"
"do something to reduce the active time needed for anchoring / unanchoring.you did the skills queue, so think about the anchoring queue."
"when i was a noob, i found the thing that kept me playing was a community of players who would train me to play the game, answer my questions, give me advice and so on. fortunately i found a high-sec corp that trained me in the early days. i think ccp should formalize some kind of \"teaching\" or \"apprenticeship\" position/job in the game. do this by making actual people who can take on the designation of \"instructor\" (or make different names for the various empires). when a person has that designation, they can get listed somewhere that noobs see, and the noobs contact them to get a person who teaches them how to enjoy the game in some ways. then as the noob continues to play, the instruction gets compensated if the noob hits certain milestones. the details of the compensation system could be done in a a variety of ways, and some of those ways are bound to be more functional than others. for the purpose of making the idea clear i'll propose one system as follows, recognizing their are probably a myriad of better ways to implement the main idea:let's say bob joins the game as a noob, and the mittani is an instructor who is listed on the new player's board instructor listing as having had some success teaching new players and is available to take on a new guy for instruction. the mittani will answer questions from bob, teach him game mechanics, chat with him, invite him to join the l4 high sec missions or small gang gank fleets or whatever... if bob upgrades his account to a full account, then the mittani get's paid! say 50m mill isk (i don't care precisely how much it is or if it comes from ccp, or bob or out of the ether). now what happens is that bob has an actual human encounter with the mittani who is a pro and teaches him. this is highly likely to entice bob to stay, make friends with the mittani and his corp/alliance, become a paying customer. also the mittani will be superior to any \"tutorial\" in educating bob on how to play the game, since he is able to answer questions. if the mittani is good enough, he can teach several people at once, lead small gangs of noobs into low/null sec space and have them do team activities and the mittani is getting paid for how many of them are enjoying the game and activating their accounts, some of them even joining his alliance/corp. win for the noobs! win for the mittani!"
"putting the idea of nerfing aside for one moment, there are a few things which currently dont make a lot sense about the overall balancing aspects of the super carrier and need to be discussed before any conclusion for change can be made.first off, the super carrier is first and foremost a carrier, which, by definition, is a support vessel intended for logistical and combat purposes. the combined adjective 'super' promotes the ability of being able to excel at its original purpose, with perhaps additional abilities. so where the carrier is intended to be an anti-sub cap vessel with the ability to provide logistical aid, the super carrier should excel at these tasks. in a sense, it does, and provides new abilities such as the fielding of fighter bombers which allow it to become an anti-cap platform. comparing its ability to deal with capitals, against the carriers ability to deal with sub capitals, the super capital seems to be much more efficient at this task, which in my opinion, shows that the vessel is more of an 'attack vessel' then a support vessel. hindering this role probably needs to be considered, it is in my opinion that the super carrier should be just as effective at taking out a capital class vessel, as a carrier is at taking out a bs or bc class vessel. the super carrier should be seen as a multipurpose platform (its size and name should allow to do a bit of everything), but should also be known as a support platform. a carrier vessel of this size should be able to move independently of a fleet, but not to the extend that it can knock out entire fleets of sub-caps. this i believe is already met, but perhaps needs further address as noted by others in this thread. in terms of hp, this i struggle to understand. it has similar hp to a titan, and also has the ability to issue similar dps with the exception of the doomsday device. cost is a useful fall back to identify the ability of a ship. the super carrier is more then half the cost of a titan and yet, is more effective in a fleet, or at least, close to. there is something definitely wrong here. in my eyes, the titan, is not a support vessel, it is a vessel which carries entire civilizations to planets, the flagship of fleets and the bringer of destruction. the titan is almost the opposite of this, the largest ship in the game and has absolutely no ability to defend itself against anything but capitals. i wouldnt want to keep the people of earth in one of those if it could be destroyed so easily. i would rather buy them all manticores.. it would be cheaper anyways. more to the point, the titan in my opinion should be the ultimate attack ship, and its price should reflect this. it is by no means twice as good at killing capital ships as the super carrier. and this is where it needs to be. in terms of each vessels health, i think this should be reflected by price. the carrier is 800 million or so. and has 350k or so hp. the super carrier hull is 13.5 billion or something on the order of and has 2.6 million hp or more. the titan hull is approx 45 bill and has 2.7 mill hp. in terms of ratios, the super carrier is 13 times the cost of a carrier and has 7.4 times the hp, plus a massive increased combat ability. the titan is 57 times the cost of a carrier and 7.7 times the health of a carrier, with similar combat effectiveness to a super carrier.in conclusion, hp is unbalanced, with the titan requiring more, or the super carrier requiring less. the super carrier also needs less dps in order to set accordance with the price. the titans power is in accordance to its price somewhat, although is a little weak in my opinion.from the ratio comparison with the carrier, it shows that the hp value of the super is in the right place, but reducing slots may be the answer so that the hp cannot be used so effectively. it is the dps that needs to be knocked in my opinion (which is in accordance to the ideas provided in this thread). in my opinion, the titan need a hp bump also."
"no"
"honestly, any kind of nerf should be a last resort, or a counter to a truly game-breaking mechanic.im more in favor of buffing the underpowered than i am of nerfing something that may be a bit overpowered. are there some areas of a super that probably need to be tweaked? sure. but there's no reason to try and tear down the buffs they got in dominion that actually made them useful. supercarriers are endgame ships, it takes close to two years of training to fly them properly, and they cost as much individually as a small carrier fleet. they should be fearsome and scary.another solution to the supercarrier issue though, could be to buff standard capital ships, dreadnoughts in particular. to start, they need to do more damage, so either give them an extra gun or two (this would require altering the ship's model though), increase the damage of capital guns (would end up buffing titans as a secondary result though), or give them a unique role bonus that adds extra damage to their xl guns. this would give dreads more bite. you could even add a damage bonus to ships with, say, greater than a 10km sig radius, to ensure than the extra damage only gets applied to supercapital-class ships.the second thing that would need to be addressed is their tank. even a sieged dread gets shredded by a supercarrier. i would suggest buffing their resists and/or total hp, to at least give them a little more time in a fight against supers. if the dreads' damage does get buffed, that would mean that standard carriers should probably get an hp buff as well (let's face it, they were always a bit too fragile to begin with).i'd also suggest lowering the cycle time on the siege modules, since being stuck in place for 10 minutes can be a death sentence in the middle of a warzone. they need to definately be lowered to 5 minutes in length, bringing them in line with the triage module. i'd even support lowering the cycle time more, although that could cause some stront issues on longer pos sieges.also, and this is more of a pet-peeve than a major balance tweak...but alter the size of the models. carriers need to be sized up to be more in-line with dreadnought size (since right now, a machariel is as big as some carriers), and supercarriers should be scaled up to roughly half the size of a titan (there's no reason the naglfar and phoenix can dock, but the supercarriers can't).in short, maybe try to focus on potential buffs before we get into heavy nerf talks. nerfs have a way of spiralling out of hand, and the last thing we need is for supers to be taken back to a mothership level of uselessness."
"dreadnoughts aren't underpowered though. the only major issue with dreads is simply that post-dominion supercarriers vastly outperform them (and everything else) in most useful roles, and that the one areas where dreads work better than supercarriers (pos shooting) has greatly diminished in importance thanks to the new dominion structures. like i've said elsewhere, if every supercarrier was deleted from the game tomorrow nearly all of the problems with dreadnoughts would be removed as well, and buffing dreadnoughts to compete with overpowered supercaps has knock-on effects - for example their performance against subcapitals or carriers or titans.the major balance issue is with supercarriers, and not just against dreads but against the rest of the capital and subcapital ranges too, so that's where re-balancing should occur - otherwise, are you going to propose a raft of buffs for titans, carriers, battleships, dictors and hictors to bring them up to scratch as well? using the newly-overpowered supercarriers as a baseline and then changing everything else in the game to fit around that is a pointlessly time consuming and inefficient exercise for ccp."
"supported"
"my all fittings were deleted in this change by some strange mechanics.i want unlimited space for fittings.why?this:"
"50 fittings is not enough. i only fly frigates, dessys and cruisers at the moment (young character). for two races. if they want to keep a limit on server-side fittings, add an option to save selected fittings to the server, but keep unlimited local fittings!. personally, i collect fittings fielded by friends and enemies so that i can figure out both how to use/improve them and how to counter them. by \"fixing\" an annoyance that affects a portion of the player base, they've broken the fittings feature for everyone. the shame is that a 3rd party app like eft outshines eve's fitting management in so many ways. anyone halfway serious about combat eventually discovers eft and afterward cannot play eve without it. the goal shouldn't just be to fix fittings to allow server storage and unlimited local storage. it should give eve's fitting screens at least the same level of usefulness as eft."
"max 50 seems a tad on the low side.id like to see it raised a lot hopefully this can get sorted, soon (tm)"
"what he said. this would be awesome... especially if we could create large bodied characters like the amarrian politician portrayed in the empyrean age novel. i could just imagine seeing a character like that in game in all his (or her) glory. on that note, the ability to make realistic fat characters is needed imho.fat by capsuleer standards is curvy by american, at least as far as the female characters are concerned.anyways, fat giggling and the ability to make our characters well rounded is a must. excluding that, imho, is a form of discrimination against the well bodied.and yes... the jiggling needs to be client side. not server side."
"well, at least something usefull would come from incarna.supported"
".... no this is not another request for a super massive, able to eat belts in 5 minutes request.with all the love given to indy side of things, how bout some love for the gas miners.my idea is basically a t2 version of the noctis.slots:6 hi4 mid3 low +1 gas harvestorreduction in chance of cloud causing damage per lvlcompress gas (maybe for the rorq)discuss..."
"gas harvesting is already pretty low income. this will only drive prices down further."
"you're mining the wrong gas then."
"mykoserocin gases are useless, as they are for synth boosters.there is not enough demand for better boosters, so cytoserocin gas is largely useless, except for the few manufacturers of the boosters themselves.wormhole gas for t3 is farmed like crazy; the only gas worth mining is the high end stuff and that is only because of its bulk. and as a direct result of that bulk, it is more practical to react it in-house than export it out.sorry but gas harvesting is simply not a profitable venture when compared with alternative activities."
"i think you are seriously misinformed. i mine and sell booster gas, the guy i'm selling to can't get enough gas to keep his pos running full tilt and he is buying from multiple miners and mining it himself. add in the fact that every cyto is being bought for 60k or better in jita.(18mill/hour) wh gas's are a bit differnt, the cheapest gas (c70) is being bought at 300. roughly 2mill per hour for c60.c70 and c82. however, c28, the next lowest isk/per hour, is about 17m (16,971,234.34) isk per hour. isk per hour only goes up from there.fyi mining veld in highsec nets about 8.25m a hour. mining ark is roughly 30m per hour.so tell me again how gas mining is not profitable?"
"needed"
"i love you..."
"supported."
"this is good. the previous overview setting was a bad place to put transversal information as you really don't need to know the transversal for every single thing on your overview."
"transversal isn't even the important one."
"angular rate in rad/sec is!edit: oops, forgot to give the good ol' thumbs up!"
"same thing! the ui would be color feedback so it wouldn't matter what maths it wasdoing!so press edit, and add your support!"
"hithe little fixes i would like addressed are drone and drone interface related.1: drone ai is still.....weird.target selection priority * light drones will still sometimes fly 50kms to start attacking a cruiser when your being orbited by a webbing frig?* drones will go out there way to attack and kill any trigger spawn.....(its like they're trying to get you hulled)client input recognition* focus fire toggle clearly doesn't work properly (drones will still sometimes split targets)* drones will not always respond properly to \"attack target\" commands and will randomly switch back to their original target drone management is not a fun little mini game..its onerous and annoying.2: drone control interface is......lite.some thoughts * a target priority selection ladder with small, medium, large target selection for each user created drone group* an attack targets with active ew priority toggle ..i.e webs/scramblers/jammers* launch, attack, return & orbit and recall buttons visible on the drones active in space window or drone control box.....the last one seem like a no brainer.that's my list of little fixes....thankso/"
"recently i started using more shortcuts while playing. i'm disappointed to see that approach, align, warp to and others shortcuts are in sort of a toggle mode where you have to hold key + click object. i'd prefer the actions to work on the selected object as well without having to click. if there's a selected object, trigger the action on it when i press the shortcut."
"how about a colour code to show true sec in 0.0 like we have in 0.1-1.0 sec... right now all o.o is red... make it so -0.1 to -0.5 = red and -0.6 to -1.0 purple"
"please add a skill that reduces the cost for clones...my main has over 100million sp and its getting rather expensive to die...make it a 7.5% reduction in clone cost per level...call it cyrogenic holding negotiations:one who posses this knowlege in buerocratic processes is able to get a reduced clone contract price..."
"1. clones: clone insurance on by default. (opt out of clone insurance is optional)2. manufacturing: default installation is the factory slot closest to your location and most ready to be used. 3. drones: easier drone control / more drone control options.4. overheating: bigger overheating buttons."
"i would tell ccp to re-hit the prevailent overview bugs that always seem to come up when switching between tabs quickly, using tags in fleet, and switching presets. seems like the hud windows when pinned has many bugs when opening new ones like the mini-map, scanner, or nesting within hud windows.this is across all my clients. very annoying to have to redo things on the hud half the time."
"my ships are made from the tears of carebears, noobs, and lost sp idiots that can't remember to upgrade their clones."
"that this seems to be the sole reason to not improve the clone mechanic in some way, is the very reason i find the way it is to be idiotic.ccp supposedly wants to mitigate the relatively massive learning curve of this game, so i don't see why senseless pitfalls like the 'remember to upgrade' mechanic exist when it adds no meaningful decision making to the game, adds no element of fun or depth, and is totally worthless beyond the long-past occasion where i enjoyed the petty elitism of laughing at those who managed to forget an upgrade."
"my mistake then, 50% sp of the highest sp invested skill.can't really fault me for being wrong, i've only ever been podded thrice and never without an up to date clone :p"
"don't worry, i just wanted to prove the op never been double podded and wanted to change a mechanic he doesn't know anything about.also no pilots were hurt in this little exercise as it was done on the test server."
"i'd rather they introduced a hard-core mode in eve.character gets double training speed and triple skill effects but is unable to clone .. perma-death! (just make leadership skills unavailable)."
"strangely enough... i kinda like that.but they could farm those char's out and sell super cap pilot strength type pilots... course once they're dead... they're dead."
"hell yeah, i'd go for that."
"this"
"op, this just recently happened to me too, but luckily it happened early in my career and i only lot two-weeks of sps... i sympathize, really i do......but j kunjeh's right... don't think its gonna change any time soon... too many other pressing matters out there......and yet there's an elegant solution! i wish i'd had a popup hit me in the face with a 'hey, doofus, youre undocking in an alpha-level clone! youre gate-camp revenge plan can wait another thirty seconds!'just sayin..."
"huh?then how's it i lost an entire level 5 skill and two weeks of training time?does this mean there's a skill-time cap, above which only a percentage of the sps are lost? that seems a little over-worked and soft on ccp's part, tbh.../me is genuinely curuious"
"how many sp did you have at the time and what was the rank of the skill you lost all of level 5 in?"
"in my experience there is still more than enough salvage - however, new players are generally too lazy to bookmark cas before they have been completed for salvaging and ratters are too lazy to drop off bookmarks of completed cas at some pick-up point for salvagers.i never had trouble finding free sanctums in fountain even after the change - but my ratting times are usually between 8 - 16 eve time, i can imagine that competition during eu/us prime has become pretty tough (but then people should be in pvp fleets during primetime anyways).my impression is that many people either love running havens or have no clue about the range of their on-board scanner - sanctums at a little more remote locations within the solar system would almost always be empty, even if many havens were occupied.havens & sanctums have similar isk/h for me if i do them in sub-capital ships. running havens in a carrier is painful.level 4 payouts vary wildly based on lp conversion rates and skills - therefore no easy comparison is possible.compare one mission runner with good social skills doing soe level4s in gicodel with another mission runner who has bad social skills and is running missions for cn in motsu and you will see a very noticeable difference in income - even though both are doing high-sec lvl4s for fairly mainstream factions and don't rely on exotic means of lp conversion (building stuff from bpcs, ...).edit: as i have said elsewhere my preferred solution to curb isk inflow from cas wold have been to replace some sanctums/havens with drone hordes with a chance that is based on truesec.would have nerfed isk influx from bad truesec & would certainly have led to many complaints but players could have adapted to the new system and system upgrades would have retained their value."
"i have not felt the so called burn of the nerf yet as i live in npc space atm... but i used to live in scalding pass and ran sanctums in a thanny all the time... at that point i was pulling in the full amount of a ring sanctum in 20 min and would finish a station one in about 35 min so i was pulling in around 20 mill every 20 min... not bad at allthough now i am in a -0.4 system belt ratting in a gila and am pulling in 13-18 million every 20 min... which is pretty good for belt ratting...now as i recall there are forsaken hubs which give you a bunch of bs's and its worth ruffly around 15-20 mill and can be done in under 20 min...i think if ccp added more highend mid range annoms like forsaken hubs to low end 0.0 systems (-0.1 to -0.5) i think this would help offset the isk loss...as imo i tink ccp added annoms to the systems to make it so more people can rat in a single system... so having the isk income of belt ratting in the system be the same as the annom ratting is a good thing..."
"wow you really are clueless. do you really expect a huge bc gang that lights up intel channels to have pvp handed to them? are people gonna hop in their ratting tengus and do honoureable spacebattle?bolded the parts that are wrong, hth"
"i was initially worried about the changes, but even with increased competition for the havens (there are no sanctums nearby) i can still make 35-40m per hour by chaining the forsaken/forlorn hubs. that's respectable enough that i don't have to resort to missioning to get by."
"really? the biggest problem in new eden?and here i was thinking it was the bots or lag that were the biggest problems."
"1. that's exactly what happens when u live there so u can stop pretending otherwise.2. because it doesn't.3. get this through your thick skull; no one's trying to eliminate low sec piracy. u're just blowing things out of proportion because u can't handle even the slightest of consequences or efforts, just like them. htfu, seriously. 1. not safe enough behind an alt, huh?2. -10s don't enter high sec unless they're passing by or going to trade hubs. take a few seconds to observe high sec; i'm sure u'll be relatively safe doing so, since u value safety so much.3. where did suicide ganking come from? oh right--talking out your ass once again.1. re-read #1 or better yet, look up \"irrelevant\". like i said before, htfu; it's the least -10s can do.2. only if they biomass throwaway alts.3. and once your hauler takes the sec hit, he'll be useless as well.4. and apparently, u don't know anything about it, judging from #3.if a -10 attempts to take something from the corp hangar, the ceo will get a warning. if he allows it, he takes the sec hit. any more rants while u're behind?"
"1. re-read the revision. then start wondering why a -10 would can-flip in high sec. if anything's fail, it's your constant ranting and lack of reading comprehension.2. u griefed yourselves by letting your sec status go down that far and not doing anything about it. seriously, htfu.3. more like u run every time u're about to get shot at and hide behind your high sec alt; where's the interaction there?4. u're the one that suggested the 2 shards; that's your stupidity for u.amazing how anything a -10 does is \"pirating\" but anything that happens to them is \"griefing\"."
"if anyone needs to htfu, it's you. -10s exist, they have consequences already. your ideas are bad, and you are dumb. get out."
"name those consequences that can't be worked around. til then, keep on ranting 'cause we all know how u like your safety."
"everything can be worked around, that's kind of the point of having alts. not being able to enter highsec is a consequence, whatever the voices in your head tell you. this can be worked around too. all it would do is make it hilariously easy to ruin other people's sec status.also, 10/10."
"if it can be worked around, it's no consequence at all--of course, u can still pretend otherwise. the only ppl this would affect is r -10s and their alts. u could also rant some more and just straw man your way through the whole thread again; that's also an option."
"you're a lot better at strawmen than i could ever hope to be.show me on the doll where the big mean -10 touched you."
"you must have a very limited mental capacity if you believe this. and what of nullsec, do you want all your ridiculous and poorly concieved ideas with limited jetcans, abandoned ships, trade restrictions, and random 'customs' interference to be extended into to 'lawless' space? lowsec is already 'lawless with oversight' which makes your entire concept of absurd arbitrary restrictions on everything rather stupid unless you want to change all of space to highsec.aside from all of this, if you managed to cease being overly dim witted for 3 seconds you'd realize not only are your emo-rage inspired ideas bad, but that no matter what kind of idiotic restrictions you can think of -10s could always use 1-day-old disposable alts to middle-man between highsec alts and criminal alts, no amount of restrictions can matter when the character is thrown away afterwards. kinda renders your poorly thought ideas a bit pointless don't you think?epic entertainment watching your aimless justifications chase each other in circles however."
"i like the idea of having corp wardecs price scale to the number of relative corp members...though as previous people have stated, corps and alliances are generally loaded with isk....the price will make no difference to the largest corporations in the game ie major alliances such as goons or it or the like...they are rich enough to afford even the highest prices...imho it will not affect low/null sec in any way because obviously you dont need a wardec to fight out there. the current system is basically punishing players who want to form a group, and in a game where grouping together is practically mandatory, this is terrible for the game's evolution. if all the current corporations and alliances remain in their current positions and power bases, the game never changes, and that is also bad.basically (as i understand it) the wardec system is a way for player corporations to \"bribe\" concord (the supposed international police force that keeps peace in the eve universe) in order for concord to look the other way when that corp attacks the decced corp. if the game is trying to be as realistic as possible, then this should be extremely difficult to do. im sure if you tried to bribe interpol, you'd get laughed into submission if you offered the equivalent of 2mil isk to them.on the flipside, corps should be rewarded for thier standings imo. so to balance, id ask that concord standing of the deccing corp give a discount proportionally."
"that's because you can see only those who use this skill to scam. you can't even notice those who use it for legitimate purposes.purely amarr trained player would say that ecm skills are useless and should be removed because they can be used by other players against him if he's not careful enough. sub capital pilot would say that fighter bombers skill is useless and should be removed because it can be used by other players against him if he's not careful enough. non-trader would say that margin trading skill is useless and should be removed because it can be used by other players against him if he's not careful enough.i see a pattern here."
"no. scamming is part of eve. margin trading is perfect for it. also, it is a highly useful skill for traders. what you are saying is the equivalent of removing battleships from game cuz they are used to gank ppl...."
"i actually ran into this scam about a week ago when selling some old stockpiled mega pulses in jita. as per the usual i viewed the market details and spotted an outragously awesome buy order. buying higher than all the sell orders. as you can imagine i was stoked, some instant awesome cash. started yapping about it to some corpies as i went to sell my pulse lasers and wham, \"you do not have the minimum quantity\". it required something absurd in the several hundreds, i only had about ~30 (i didn't die as often as i thought i would when i stockpiled :d). i took a closer look and thats when i learned that you can actually set a minimum amount on buy orders.now i agree, the scam is very clever! i am also a fan of scamming being a part of eve and i don't think it should be flattened at every turn. with that said however, i do think scamming should have it's own risk, just like everything else in eve.as such here is this quote...now with that quoted, i would like to see buy orders with a minimum amount disallow margin trading. will this stop the scam? no. but it will make it a hell of a lot riskier to the scammer. risk v reward.in the scenario of the scam that i found the order was for something sick in the several hundreds. infact the order was right around the amount of all the mega pulse turrets in jita combined valued somewhere in the several billions. several hundred of these turrets (likely placed on the market by the scammer in question) were set well over-priced, but still cheaper than this incredible buy order.let's say i had bought them all up to sell them to this buy order: bam, rejected. i'm stuck with a stock of mega pulses that i can't use, and selling them at their actual prices will put me at a loss. this is market pvp. this is win.however, if said scammer puts that order up with the proposed change, and i buy his turrets for the same thing, he just cancels the buy order, leaving me stuck with the product yet again.now lets say the scammer puts up the sell and buy orders... and goes afk or logs off... now here is where the risk comes in. i buy them up.. he's not around to see that i did and then bam... i sell to a fully backed buy order from a scammer, reversing the scam on him.with the anonymity of the market you cant track who that buy order belongs to until you successfully interact with it, making it a high risk scam reversal, with potentially ground breaking rewards.does this fix the problem? maybe not... but what it does do is bring risk to the scam, hell that change might even make people more inclined to bite the scam. is that a bad thing? depends on your point of view. but buyer education and common sense should always rule the day.tl;dr - add risk to scamming"
"the problem is the negative impact this has on people using the margin trading skill for less nefarious purposes.that's the balance that the smart guys in iceland are supposed to be paid to solve. destroying the usefulness of the skill almost entirely in order to prevent a couple of scams (which, let's be honest...only take advantage of greedy people) is not a proper solution.it seems in this thread that the people who are opposed to margin trading are people who don't use and/or don't understand margin trading./unsupported"
"it's rather ironic, i lost something like 4 billion isk to the margin trading scam just within the past week or two. quite honestly, i never realized that players couldn't go into negative isk, partially due to the fact that players require a positive balance to be sold in the character bazaar. margin trading scam works very well, and is completely capable of catching a person as many as 3 times, before they figure it out. i myself, fell for it withing my first 6 months of playing, and having never gotten into margin trading, again something more than 2 years later. you think you can beat them to the sale on those buy orders they have up, but that's quite impossible as they do not really exist. knowing it's a scam really doesn't help, unless you also know you can't win. that's 3.8 billion isk, gone.anyway, yeah it needs fixed. even making them liable doesn't help, as all they need is a couple weeks to train the skills on an alt, for it to be worth better than a billion isk in one successful scam. transfer to alt, biomass, rinse, repeat."
"where is the negative impact in not allowing a buyer set a minimum amount for margin trading. this simply makes the scammers have a risky proposition while legitimate traders can continue to margin trade.im fairly new to the trading side of things and i am hoping someone can enlighten me as to if this will have any impact at all on legitimate traders."
"no, you should be able to tractor loot owned by another person but you should still get flagged for it. this makes noctis's incredible bait ships that will really f*** a carebears day up."
"i half way agree... wrecks left for 1 hour should turn blue. having wrecks sit for 2 hours then disappear is kinda lame. if they can't/won't loot them in 1 hour they should be ffa."
"i like the mechanic the way it is... this way i can blue a wreck just before a ninja gets to it, and before they can get to the next one, and the next, and so on...rage and tears over lost loot and me not falling for his fail bait operation = the best!"
"i agree on one condition. the wreck of a pvp ship is still owned by the destroyed ship's pilot."
"yes please"
"great idea!"
"this will not happen. ccp already said they would do it if they could.i'll support it anyway though."
"agreed, dead corp names should not be kept around for all eternity."
"what if a corporation has less than 5 players? would it need to meet all criteria, or just one?otherwise, if no ones been on for half a year in their corp kill the corp. they aren't using it."
"yes please"
"why?because a few bytes of data sitting on a back-up disk somewhere creates such huge problems for the database by the same argumentation, all character names should be freed up automatically if person doesn't log in for x days .. now that would be fun (not).corporation/alliance names and tickers has almost as much value as character names, in some cases more so (why else would goons deliberately hijack bob back in the day if not to annoy?).thanks, but no thanks."
"here how it looks like right now. 0.0 have sov. sov i based on controlling more and more of connected systems. but it can be also used for just controlling one system.in theory the same can be used in wh.but, in wh things are a little bit different. you control system if you can hold the system. no ammount of virtual sov mechanic will change that. in 0.0 you have tcu/etc... that you have to use to claim/capture system. in wh, where all combat is ususally limited to as long passage is open (few hours usually when moving larger forces) such mechanic would block all possibility of capturing wh.in wh no one will here your screem. if you hold the system, its yours, if you cant... well, say hello to your cloning station."
"since possession and sovereignty of a system in eve comes at the barrels of your guns, and might is indeed right, these \"claim units\" already exist. they're called \"ships\". you have outgrown your system. move to deeper wh space, or split your corp and take another similar-depth system. wormhole space was specifically designed not to have stations. i suggest that you move to nullsec.waa waa can i have free isk with no effort please?"
"during this day of peace, users labeled as an outlaw should be able to freely roam the empire, visiting old family and friends."
"ninja salvagers often are flagged to the mission runner. that's really the whole point of ninja salvaging: to get the mission runner to aggress so you can come back in with a gank ship and take him out."
"okay i'll start here. as much as i would love the idea that convincing you guys would be enough to change something in eve,it sadly wont. if the ideas that are brought to the csm and passed up to ccp don't get acknowledged then neither will mine. and to an extent i agree that this change would most likely be too much work for ccp for the small change that it would bring forth. that said my main goal in this thread was not to change anything but to simply state my opinion. apart from that the people who would have to vote on my behalf would be the mission runner crowd which for the most part have no interest in pvp what so ever. because while being a solution to much confusion it would do just that,offer a new opportunity for pvp in high sec while eliminating a risk free way to earn isk. first off i have to say i disagree that ninja salvaging doesn't cause a problem. so being a topic that has been beaten to death i'm not too sure where to start. i think i'll start with your quotes on page one that everyone values so highly.lets break them down and see what they actually bring to the table.keep in mind that i will treat what ccp says as gods word just for the sake of argument. after all it is their game.1. ccp mitnal: in quote one the link doesn't work so all i have to go on is the quote itself and not what was said in the thread. and the quote says nothing other than that ccp wants it to be a mini profession and doesn't consider salvaging as theft.2. gm faolchu : in quote two say the same thing basically,that its an intended game mechanic and not an exploit. i for one never said it was an exploit but that it was a bad game design. but i'll get to that later on in this post.the key part of this quote is the bottom half. \"eve is a harsh place....it's a do or die world\".what is harsh about scanning down a player who cant shoot you,and salvaging his wrecks while he tanks the mission? nothing at all. its free isk. not only that but it takes nothing to train an alt which can do this,i estimate two weeks if not less. even faster now that we have the 100% training time bonus on new characters.continued below..."
"3. senior gm ytterbium : this one is very very interesting and a major key in my argument. you quoted the part that you wanted to see but not the relevant part. one of the most used arguments are \"it's not your wreck and only the loot inside is yours\". i am going to kill this argument once and for all. now again,keep i'm mind that we are taking the word of ccp as the word of god. the part you should have quoted is this...wow..now this brings a whole new light on the subject now doesn't it? this is a senior gm who states that the wreck does in fact belong to the pilot who accepted the mission. this along with the fact that the wreck has my corp name on it,can not be shot or tractor beamed by anyone but myself and my corp clearly proves that the wreck is in fact...mine. he doesn't say it belongs to me as long as my loot is in there,but that it is plain and simple..mine.4. ccp prism x : in this quote ccp prism x took it upon himself to get a little sarcastic.no **** sherlock. but he doesn't address any of the key points players bring up in this or any other thread on this subject. all he says is that \"it's not stealing\" which clearly contradicts what senior gm ytterbium stated in the quote above. as far as i know taking anything from a wreck that is mine (which we have proven to be mine) is stealing. so either they need to talk it over what it is exactly that they want,or to fix the game mechanic to reflect this choice. like change the ownership of the wreck when looted. so until they decide what it is they want,i will call it bad game design. simple as that. why? because the game mechanic doesn't reflect what they say it is intended to be.5. ccp incognito : this quote confirms my statement from above and again contradicts what senior gm ytterbium stated in his post. it confirms my statement that the game mechanic doesn't reflect what the designers intend it to be hence its bad game design as i have said many times in this thread. bad game design which causes confusion and these threads that keep arising on this subject.he has spoken with the designers and they have concluded that the wreck is not mine but the loot is. why then after the wreck is looted,does it remain unchanged? i still can't shoot it or tractor beam it as a salvager or someone not in that corp. this again confirms a problem and a contradiction in the game design as far as salvaging goes.continued below..."
"no it doesn't but the facts above prove that it is and i hope i helped clear you nicely prepaired quote bible up a bit and maybe even convince you that there is infact a problem at hand that causes this confusion. what it is and how to fix it i will leave up to the developers to solve. in my opinion flagging the salvager at least in missions,would solve the problem while opening new doors to pvp in high sec,and spice up mission running a bit.posts have been taken from the thread linked in the op on page 10."
"why bring up this **** over and over. it's boring.-1"
"yes please, flag ninjas as thieves just for salvaging so i can blow up more mission runners. i'm krustykrab and i approve this message. paid for by the krustykrab for ninja president alliance. all rights reserved."
"with your points on the quotes, i'll say one thing. ccp dev>gm."
"no only loot thieves are flagged for aggression. that's kind of the whole frigging point of these threads. it's inconsistent that salvaging and looting mission objectives doesn't flag for theft. support op (not that anything is likely to change)"
"i like the idea of bringing back mines. i pledge my support with the following behaviors:1. mines get treated like warp disruption bubbles and are an object launched from any ship with the appropriate skills, then anchored.2. anchor time of 30 seconds per mine.3. mine is anchored where it's launched, no ability to move it around like a pos module. you launch it, right click anchor and it anchors it right there.4. mines are only able to be launched for corp. all kill mails go to the corporation as is with pos's. this should prevent the concord issues.5. mines utilize the corporation/alliances standings and trigger on any pilot with 0.0 or less standings and not configurable.6. mines should stay deployed in space for the same duration as a gsc can when anchored.7. mines should be un-anchorable by anyone within 2500m8. mines detonate on detection of a target ship within 5000m so long as that ship is traveling over 30ms9. explosion radius of 7500m on t1 mines, and 10,000m on t2 mines10. can't be anchored within 20km of a stargate11. can't be anchored within 3km of eachother12. comes in the flavors of 2 combined damage types. em/therm & kin/expl13. only anchorable in null/wh space.14. only one mine can be anchored on grid at once.15. cloaked ships still get decloaked at normal range.16. mines should cost 1-2m for t2 with top end damagenow that seems like a lot of stipulations.. but with it all working together this is how i picture the situation:scenario with my rules:my corporation starts basing out of a null system that happens to be a dead end. we decide that we want to make our system a royal pain to get into without our being able to take action.we purchase a large amount of mines and several interdiction bubbles. we spread the bubbles in a sphere around the gate, preventing anyone not in a nullified t3 cruiser from warping out. within those bubbles (but far enough away from the gate to prevent insta-pop on jump in for neuts/reds) we deploy our mines.the net of mines is huge. spanning the entire area. just deploying 20 of the mines takes 10 minutes, plus the time of flying your ship to a location thats not within range of another mine to deploy it.we've spent hours setting up our entire minefield. while doing so we're vulnerable to attack. but when we're done our minefield covers the entire gate area, except for one safe little core. a neutral jumps in... \"oh **** this, i'm not flying through that minefield.\" burns back to the gate and leaves without any mines detonating in this theoretical safe zone.a cloaky jumps into the system. lets say we don't have a guard posted. he flies very slowly and deliberately through the minefield at a brisk 29m/s to avoid being blown to kingdom come by the mines. because he's within the decloaking range of the densely packed minefield, his slow journey through the field leaves him vulnerable and detectable, acting as a deterrent for afk cloakers entering the system.neutral shows up in local, a patrol warps to the gate. if they see a cloaky ship slow boating out of the mine field, they destroy it, assuming the cloaker doesn't trigger the mines first. if the cloaker stays in the safe zone around the gate cloaked, the defending group merely has to search that small area to reveal the intruder.on the flip side if the gate is unattended, the intruder can un-anchor the mines, or just slip through them without being destroyed. or if the intruder happens to be a fleet of enemy warships they can blast their way through the mines, or if the entrance is manned, be at a disadvantage against the defenders; adding a new feel to spontaneous engagements. overall, mines the way i envision them would add the ability for some awesome tactics. on both the attacking and defending sides.throw in a minelayer ship that gets a bonus to the anchoring and unanchoring time of the mines.. and you've got yourself an awesome new game mechanic."
"i thought i'd expand a bit on minelayer ships the way i envision them. i'd like them to be designed with hulls similar to the style used on these:gate keeperdrudendevastatorhayconsilurus(images pulled from deviant art's entries for the create a starship contest)with exception of the gate keeper design i don't prefer any of the ship models, they just illustrate the kind of feel i'd like to have a ship specialized in mines look like.infact, the gate keeper design would make an awesome mine layer ship and is personally my vote for such a role.now as far as how the ship functions is concerned i'd like it to be able to boast a formidable tank, but lack a real offensive capability. as such it should be able to fulfil either a shield, or armor tank role. should the pilot decide to armor tank it, or fit a less than omg shield tank, they can fit unbonused ew modules (point, web, td's.. etc etc). the ship should be able to field 5 unbonused medium drones, and have no weapon mounts on the highs, but have 2 high slots available for its use.now as far as the mines are concerned, give it a bay specifically for mines, that can hold nothing else, similar to the orca's ore hold.give it a bonus to the anchoring & unanchoring time of mines so that it effectively can deploy and remove mine threats once every 15 seconds at maximum skills. (requiring ~25 minutes to anchor 100 mines.)-i know my idea is far more of a monstrosity than others as far as quantity of mines... but honestly if we're going to have mines, we need to be capable of creating vast fields of them... *if* you're willing to invest in them.guestimating 100 t2 mines under how i'd like to see it work, you're looking at 100m @ 1m/ea to set up a large minefield. at any given time someone can come in and unanchor or destroy those mines or trigger them dying and requiring you to replace them.having the mines not trigger unless the detected ship is going higher than an alloted speed creates a way for people to get around a minefield should it be unattended by the owner, or they are capable of fending off whatever defense is being fielded while they crawl through it.now obviously lag is a different story but honestly that's up to ccp to figure out."
"for the rest of this year, can ccp please not come out with any more broken \"expansions\"? instead how about they focus on all the previous junk they crapped out over the past few years? an expansion entirely dedicated to fixing all the past stuff that was \"supposed\" to be functional yet isn't.ccp can even call this expansion: \"retrospect & rectify\"."
"inb4 \"the statistics show that new content attracts customers more than polished content\"but seriously this has been proposed a billion times, adapt... if you cant make the bug's, unbalanced-ness and grind work for you, eve's not your game. still, i support it because angel **** is stupid and hybrids could be cool."
"i have an idea. ceo missions, these missions would be offered by the ceo of a npc corp. they would be incredibly difficult (3-5 people working on them?) but would have incredible awards. you would need to have a certain standings and would work like storyline missions, but would take more missions to get one."
"you mean lvl 5's?"
"no, i mean something harder, and more profitable than lvl 5's"
"you mean incursions?"
"but missions, you can choose where the lp's go, you can have it closer to where your main area you're around is."
"like doing lvl 5's for the corporation you mission for?"
"again, harder though. its basically harder that lvl 5, easier than headquarters incursions, and more profitable than lvl 5's, but not so much as incursions"
"you mean like doing a level 5 whilst there is an incursion ongoing in the same constellation?"
"this thread delivers..."
"when i logged on to eve i pressed r or z twice to do a barrel roll, but my ship did not do one and i blew up. this must be fixed asap."
"confirming tackled titans need to have a barrel roll available"
"what would you say if you could buy back skill points that you missed by missing that endding training sesion or when you take a brake from eve but forgot to set skills. a charicter should have a max amount of skills that they could posible get due to there age of charater. so ccp could figure the max amount out and offer for a price to get back some or all of those lost skill points.just a thought"
"no."
"no."
"is this the same guy about the capital v skill lost? and no. make a deposit on paying for lost sp buy keeping your clone updated at all times."
"you mean office rentals?"
"help with what? corporation names (tickers in particular) are as coveted as character names and carry the same historical/emotional significance.just imagine some noob-carebear corp in high-sec acquiring veto (used for ease of recognition) because someone forgot a bill or they decided to take some time off .....thanks, but no thanks.ps: since you have probably got your mind set on a specific corp name/ticker, why not ask cs to contact the ceo through email (assuming you don't already have it), you may be able to purchase it like normal .. or is it the null self-entitlement demanding stuff for free again?"
"no"
"part of the problem here is that cs will not assist in these matters. i recently tried to obtain a chat channel that has been abandoned for the use of an alliance i plan on forming in the somewhat near future and i really wanted the channel name, and hoped that as it is dead and abandoned. (i've been in the channel for about a month, with my character on from server launch to dt with no activity)ccp's official response essentially told me that should i want to obtain the channel or corporation (they actually mentioned corps despite the fact that i didn't mention it at all) that i was the one responsible for getting in contact with the owner of the respective channel/corp and they could not provide me any information on who owned it.they wouldn't even give me the character name of who owned the public channel. because of this i seriously doubt they will send an email on behalf of another player to some-ones personal inbox. starting such a policy as well would cause a cataclysmic overload in ccps petition hoppers as well.though with that said... i do think something needs to be done about it. as forming corporations these days does require a lot of planning if you want a good name, let alone a ticker worth anything.more importantly to me though, dead chat channels owned by characters who are no longer subscribed needs to be fixed. i've formed about 20-30 chat channels in eve. the ownership was retained to me. i stopped using them and i was communal enough to delete the channels so the names could be used by others if they so desired.in a nutshell... theres something old and dead in several facets of the game that are irritating to many people. but somehow it must be fixed while keeping the history intact."
"corps can exist without paying rent. we're not talking about active corps here. we're talking about corps that are populated by people who don't play anymore and weren't closed out, likely because they all rage quit. i've been in this corp for almost 3 years, so you can take your tinfoil hat off, i don't have any designs on your corp. ccp designed corps without a designed death upon abandonment. as more players play, and more players want to start their own corps, the possible tickers will eventually run out. that is something ccp should address sooner rather than later. along those same lines, corp names will eventually run out as well (granted, we can use garbage names like sadguipwaer for a while before we reach that point) and that too should be addressed before it becomes an issue in my opinion. for tickers, we've really started to get to the point where people resort to nonsensical tickers because they give up trying to find one that isn't already taken.i can't complain, but noobs are usually the ones trying to start new corps and they don't often have a billion isk sitting around.because isk sinks are good things. because active corps already pay for a lot of stuff, this would be a rather small amount in comparison. i would imagine it being maybe 100k isk for a corp full of newer players. i didn't suggest an amount simply because ccp would be better suited to determine the right balance between not burdening corps and clearing out dead corps.they really don't. when i've played in high sec war dec'ing corps (none of my alts are in one currently), targets were picked that had a lot of players who autopiloted or flew around in expensive ships that we drooled over as we watched fly past our camps for active war decs. granted, each high sec war dec corp is different, but targets are rarely picked at random, simply because it is a target rich environment even with the most basic filters. it improves the game by allowing new players more opportunity to express themselves in the corp name they pick instead of letting failed corps hold their names forever.p.s. supporting my proposal."
"i don't know about anyone else but to me putting the pos password in for every session change is stupid. pos passwords need to be saved to a list that will automatically be referenced by a pos for clearance and can be edited at will like places are.will you join me in asking for a bandage over this papercut?"
"it would be better to be able to set the access to certain... things that are attached to poss to be based on standings instead of passwords. but, whatever. it can be amusing to be able to access the jump bridge network of an alliance you are no longer blue to (or drain it by using mwd - always a good time), but they really shouldn't have to change the passwords to said network every time someone leaves the alliance to keep it secure."
"every wh have an object called \"cosmic signature\" attached to it, few kilometers from wh center.this thing can not be addded to overwiev, you cant interact with it, warp to it, see it on d-scan. you can select it, if by chance your mouse is at the right spot wen you click.but...this thing alse decloaks cloaked ships.it is good that wh decloaksit is bad that non interactive / unseen object decloaksmy proposal is to either remove it, or just change some flags in db to make it that cloaked ships can just pass it without decloak."
"sounds resonable"
"."
"you have a point...."
"a bright point on a field of darkness. #ffffff on #000000 if you will."
"+1 fully supported.incidentally if anyone from ccp reads this (well it could happen).the total silence from you on this subject is what we're talking about when we say you don't communicate with us well enough."
"the cover mechanic can easily be introduced in incursions or other missions where ship numbers are limited giving it an unique and first step to a true space immersion."
"they already have 2-3 complete code re-writes on the list, but this can be added after those(carbon is one re-write, and changing everything to support multithreading is another) because of those, one is gonna happen, and multithreading is much more needed that los.and no, combining it all into one re-write is pants ****tingly ******ed, no developer/engineer in their right mind would ever do it and keep their job."
"all eve needs to be perfected is chest-high walls."
"so... what do you think about the whole 0.0 thing now?"
"i sence much... hostility, in this one.prithee, art thou engorged with ire?i see no reason since the items up for discussion are ones the entire player base has been wanting discussed with ccp."
"supported.poss need lots of love."
"@ccp:"
"that is actually a pretty awesome idea"
"i find it odd that the shortest ranged guns, aparently, go on the slowest, least maneuverable ships in the game.really when was the last time someone saw a blaster ship outside of an undock camp/gank, or pve?edit: i do like the idea i saw earlier where blasters got a boost to alpha/lower rof, and rails got a boost to rof/lower alpha. still doesn't adress the fact that gallente ships are slow and ponderous, and the first thing a new gallente pilot should do is train minmatar."
"i wonder why caldari gun boats are even suckier than gallente gun boats.when was the last time you saw ferox/rokh outside of your ship preview window?"
"ok this is cool and all but can you first lighten the anom nerf a bit while ccp is working on \"farms and fields\" so when it falls apart people can still have some isk to fall back on instead of having to wait out jump clone timers and run lvl 4's."
"i live in a 0.0 npc sov area, my alliance has been there 5 years. we have 6 systems that are npc sov. this was not a problem before the new sov changes because all of the systems would get the same amount of sites for farming. for npc nullsec systems i propose a mechanic that would increase the systems worth somehow. whether it be through a combination of missions, faction, and cost. we are willing to do the work and understand having better systems would require us to defend them more, but that is the nature of every system (we also welcome more targets). why not allow us to leverage these npc factions so their systems are better?this is a very niche reply seeing as though there are not many npc owned nullsec areas. but i don't think it should go overlooked.thank yousan"
"starbase (pos) refiningstarbases should be capable of refining at perfect levels with max skills, in exchange for the convenience of getting perfect refine at a pos, the refinery takes time to process the ore. a million m3 for example could take 10 hours as a loose example. this would be a huge mistake at those numbers. a 5 man crew in a couple hours would back the station up for a couple days. would be best to drop that down to around say 30minutes. enough to be use full but not have a small alliance backing it up for weeks"
"here are a few of my ideas for improving pos mechanics:user level pos roles would be a grand thing. player a can online modules and fuel pos aplayer b can offline silos on pos a and b but not cplayer c can has full control over pos c but cannot do anything with a and b.improved notifications showing time left not just amounts. and i wouldnt mind audit logs on pos structures so you can see who took what out and when.make anchoring levels do something to reduce the time it takes to anchor a module, increase a queue, or allow for multiple things to be anchored simultaneously.a better anchoring interface that allows for some sort of templating of where mods are anchored in a pos for more uniform configurations or corp standards. make starbase defense management useful for something besides gunning. my idea would be something like marketing skills. level 1 allows for remote management within the same solar system, level 2 extends that range to systems within 5 jumps, and each subsequent level then doubles it. level 5 allows for remote management anywhere within current region. the ability to unanchor guns with ammo in them. i dont care if it gets eaten in the process. some sort of notification of low/no ammo in pos guns.allow regular or capital tractor beams to pull unanchored mods towards you as if they were cans.personally id like to be able to build a tower kit in the station complete with some sort of fitting to say how i would like the modules deployed and a few hrs of fuel. said kit is then brought out and anchored and i come back in a couple hours to find everything in its place and then i begin onlining. but that is probably wishful thinking."
"the api is shockingly lacking when it comes to pos:- i can't tell what the fuel consumption for lo/hw is via the api. this could probably be fixed with fuel pellets.- i can't tell which container is at which pos via the api. ccp stated in a roundtable that xyz coordinates (not planet-moon) would be \"not that hard, wait you're saying they're not in there already?\" to implement. - i can't see pos configuration (anchored/online/reaction configuration) via the api.also:- it's not possible to filter modules by status (online/anchored/incapped) on the overview."
"+1+1visual indication (either in 3d overlays orr 2d overview) of connections between connectable things: moon harvesters and silos, silos and reactors. along with that, visual indicators of cycle time/progress.being able to connect silo to reactor by simp"
"i agree with you there.there are all manner of activities for a new player to get involved with right from their first login. check the new citizens useful threads page (which needs to be merged with the \"new citizens (useful threads)\" page, with mitnal's link in new citizen's q&a sticky being updated ton point to the right page).many pages in the wiki are already referenced during the introductory missions - people just need to read that copious amount of information. work through the tutorials with a completely new player (say, your non-eve spouse or workmate) and listen to what kinds of questions they ask.all a new player needs in order to get involved with life in nullsec from day 1 is a friendly capsuleer willing to show them the ropes.my only request at this point would be for ccp to bring back the original opening sequence: where aura is narrating the story about earth, humanities reach into space, the eve wormhole, its collapse, the fall of spacefaring civilization, the rise of capsuleers. then segue into the \"you have become what most people fear\" rifter-flying-through-asteroids clip. more background to the story, highlighting the harsh, cruel nature of the world in this game.the five career missions lead the player through industry, mission-running combat, astrometrics, basic pvp equipment, ship loss, and working with the market.all that is left is for the new player to find a gang to hang with. there is nothing a tutorial can do for annew player beyond this point: the pilot is capable of flying their ship, navigating to a destination system, taking part in the market, and engaging in piracy.welcome to the world of capitalism and piracy, indeed!"
"they are underpowered in relation to supercarriers though, which is why they should be buffed to take this new ship class into account. that is what you do when you add in new features, you first try to buff the older features to bring them up to snuff. you don't go to nerfing down the new feature unless you have no other choice.ehh, that's semi-debatable. pos bashing is still probably the most important aspect of sov warfare, since it is the only way to gain control over the tech moons that drive big-alliance sov warfare. the ihubs are just an extra annoyance that needs to be taken into account during the process. when it comes down to pos bashing, dreads are still king. the main issue with dreadnoughts bashing pos's is that their long seige timers make them sitting ducks if they get hotdropped. a shorter cycle time would help with that some, and a buff to their total hp would give them a greater chance to hold out in a fight or get out of dodge if things go badly.that depends. if we just give them a broad damage increase, then yes, it will affect carriers as well (which deserve a hp buff anyway, in my opinion). but, if we go with a more limited option, such as giving them a damage boost agaisnt objects with over, say, a 10-12km sig radius, then you would only see the impact on supercarriers and titans. titans got a huge hp bonus after dominion and only get killed by large fleets anyway, so dreads doing a bit more damage to them doesn't really make a huge different.i honestly don't think them being able to take on sub-caps is that big of an issue. they're the most powerful pvp ships in eve. they should be able to hold their own against multiple players in different ship-types. if you buff dreads to the point where a dread fleet has a change to drop and kill a supercarrier, then you're going to see them drop on sub-capital targets a whole lot less. the only reason they drop a 25billion isk ship on sub-caps now is because they really don't have anything to fear besides other supers coming down on their heads.right now, supers have no fear. the enemy's supercarrier pilots are all watch-listed, so they know when they can, and cannot engage a target in their own supers. if you give a much cheaper, and easily fielded ship, like the dreadnoughts (which also have the same jump range as supers) the ability to pounce on them in groups and take them down, then you add a whole lot of fear and uncertainty to the equation. people will be a lot less loose with their supers if they have that uncertainty.i just think its time to give carriers and dreadnoughts some love. they have been around for years, and haven't changed much. capital warfare in eve has changed with dominion, and i just think dreads and carriers need to be buffed a little to help bring them into the modern age of capital warfare. supercarriers will probably need to be nerfed, but nerfs should never be your first option. buff up the older capitals, and then pepper in a couple nerfs to supers to bridge the gap and bring both sides into a better balance."
"dread buff:reduced seige timer to 5 min, in line with triage.increase damage for larger targets, eg against super capitals.super carrier:remove the ability of super carriers to lock structures. if you want to shoot a structure bring dreads. (i do own a super and find it ridiculous that my aeon out dps's a seiged dread on a control tower)"
"ehh, i don't really mind them being able to target structures. ihubs and stations are a drag to tear down as it is, plus fighter-bombers can't hit pos's, which are what sov warfare is really about. also, i had an idea today.capital interdictor vesselsone of the main issues brought up in this thread is the supers' ability to either neut down, or outright kill heavy interdictors, one of only two ships in the game capable of pinning a supercarrier down. the only other option then is dictor bubbles, but they are only temporary, and the ships that lay down more of them die if you look at them funny. buffing hictors to the point where they can hang with a supercarrier just seems absurd to me, it'd be like trying to get a chihuahua to hang onto mike tyson's ankle without being killed. that line of thought lead me to this idea. i honestly doubt its going to be a complete solution, but i haven't seen anyone else propose something like this yet, and doing a little thinking outside the box never hurt anyone.basically, im proposing a capital-class interdictor vessel. it would have terrible dps, but its tank would be superior to a dreadnought's, and it would be able to equip a capital warp jamming module (basically, a bigger, meaner version of the hictor's infinite point). i imagine it would need to have an ecm immunity (either naturally, or when its point is activated) so that a couple falcons don't render it useless.what this would do is add more risk to supercarrier hotdrops, which is something a lot of supers don't currently have.imagine this scenario- group a decides to drop some carriers repping a pos/ihub/station with a super or two. - group b manages to pin the supers with hictors.- the hictors hold on for dear life until group b lights a cyno, and jumps in a couple capital interdictors along with a capital kill-team of carriers, dreads and maybe a couple supers.- at this point, group a has two choices. either let their hotdropping super(s) die, or escalate the situation.- group a escalates, as does group b, and what started as a small hotdrop turns into a full-on brawl between two capital fleets.basically, this would force supercarriers into more life or death situations, and would lead to them actually dying. it would force them to choose their targets carefully, and weed out pilots who are sloppy with their supers. it would add a threat to supers that they couldn't just neut out, or shred in seconds.of course, supercarrier hotdrops would still happen, since not every group could assemble a kill-team quick enough to catch the super...but the threat of it would still there. hictors would still have their place in sub-cap fleets, and to get the initial tackle on a super-cap, but they would no longer have to die in droves to keep a super pinned down."
"is it me, or are we seeing the same suggestions over and over and over from people who never bothered to read the thread?"
"a lot of people like to complain too much, methinks. dreads shouldn't be dropping on towers without capital support ready to back them up, eh? however, i think due to the recent supercarrier buff, it would be reasonable to reduce siege cycle time to 5 minutes rather than 10; this makes it so dreads aren't so much of a helpless target anymore. stop wanting to hit **** with the nerf bat already lol.edit: supercarries don't need a nerf, quit crying. just because ncdot has more supercaps than you doesn't mean you must nerf them. if you can't tackle all of them, bring more dictors."
"yes.to be fair, its a long thread."
"that's silly. supercarriers were overbuffed in dominion, and you're saying that mistake shouldn't be corrected, but that its set in stone and the rest of the game has to adjust to fit them in.if you put some new chairs in your lounge and decide you don't like where they're positioned, do you leave the chairs in place and demolish your entire house and rebuild it so that they fit, or do you correct your mistake and move the furniture?here's how pos sieges with dreads go these days:1)form up capfleet.2)count your supercarriers.3)count the hostile supercarriers.4)if you have more supercarriers, its safe to send the dreads in.a hp buff to carriers will vastly decrease their vulnerability against subcaps. they don't need that.i actually don't think titan's are anywhere near as overpowered as supercarriers, as i stated way back in this thread their primary weapon systems actually take up fitting slots, and don't have the same versatility against tacklers and other sub-caps. you've responded to the overpowering of supercarriers with what is effectively a nerf to titans. the supercarriers are the hull that's out of sync, so fix the supercarrier. don't demolish the house just to make the furniture fit.that aside, you've missed the whole point of the original suggestion, which is to make supercarriers less effective against sub-cap fleets. i've no problem with supercaps killing other caps and supercaps, that's the role ccp gave them in dominion. the issue is their ability to destroy subcapitals, including the dictors and hictors required to tackle them, just as easily because of their wealth of utility slots and effectively infinite waves of drones."
"one of the attractive things about eve has always been the idea that there was no 'endgame' ubermensch, and that unlike say, wow's pvp where you have to grind up to level 80 to join in with the big boys, in eve even the most experienced player can be vulnerable to relative newbies. if you make dreads the anti-supercap vessel of choice and tolerate supercaps being largely immune to anyone not in another capship, you've removed this distinction and implemented a 'you must grind this much xp to compete' mindset seen in other more mainstream mmos. if you maintain the existing versatility of supercarriers, you'll still see them dropped on anything and everything because they can swat away dictors and hictors with points, neuts, smartbombs, and endless waves of warrior iis. if you reduce this ability so that a supercarrier needs support (and by support i don't just mean 'more supercarriers') to break a tackle and escape the bubbles and infinipoints, you see a more well-rounded fleet and more interesting combat.you know what's even harder to watchlist and track than dreadfleets? battleships and dictors. they haven't changed much because they are essentially pretty well balanced, and were universally desirable until dominion introduced an overbuff to supercarriers so that dreads could be murdered with impunity."
"they're still carriers though, they should be versitile. you shouldn't be able to just lob subcaps at them and have success. as for hictors and dictors, it kind of makes sense that they'd get demolished. they are punching too high above their weight-class. you can't really buff them up to the point where they'd be able to keep up with supers, or they'd just end up being too overpowered in sub-cap fleets, and you can't nerf down supers without making them totally helpless to sub-caps.that's why i put forward that capital interdictor idea a couple posts ago. it creates a ship who's job it is to pin down supers. you'd still need hictors for the intitial tackle, but once the capital dictors roll onto the field, they would take over, and you wouldn't need waves of hictors and dictors to die in droves to lock down the supercarrier. give dreads a slight buff so that they can travel alongside the capital dictors to act as a kill-team, and a lotof the issue with supercarriers gets solved. if they get pinned down by a capital dictor, they have to fight their way out of it, and the situation will likely escalate into a full-on capital engatement where even more supers are put at risk."
"supporting.ideally, a resolution would be the option to view & fit local fittings. cant see anything else working as well for me personally, unless the server side saved fits got increased by a couple of orders of magnitude.oh and make fits add rigs again, the manager claims to do it, then totally fails."
"i'll go for option 3. it was done before, why can't we do it now?"
"supported, as now using eft and a notepad. 50 fitting's is not nearly enough when you can fly pretty much every subcap in game."
"can i have your stuff?"
"great, numbers are fantastic.now factor in overhead. you either react in on-site and thus have a pos to feed and the transport time to there, or you export it which is extremely time consuming (time=money). pretty high number for the 90mil/hr assuming its right, but thats only one gas.and you're missing the point. most of your numbers are hovering at \"okay\" isk/hr prices. what do you think will happen when gas is harvested? supply will increase while demand does not, resulting in lower prices and thus lower income.as for boosters, that market fluctuates like crazy. i used to be a large part of it; it has potential to be highly lucrative or an extreme waste of time.remember that barrier to entry is huge in determining the value of something. the barrier to entry for mining gas effectively currently is having a cruiser or battlecruiser trained that has the cpu for 5 harvesters and a rank 1 skill trained to 5 for 5 harvesters. pretty low barrier to entry."
"lol...salazar...you are definately harvesting the wrong gas clouds. just saying...definately need a dedicated gas harvester."
"more supply will not saturate the market, many of you forget that when prices go down, you get more customers. i've never used a single booster since i started playing eve online, but i'd love to start any day! they're just too damn expensive. and nobody cares much for a gas cloud, either. point is, if boosters get cheaper, there will be more money in the booster market. this trend would continue until boosters get so cheap that everyone can have as much as they want, and we're nowhere near that point.i suggest something on the order of the mining barge for a gas mining ship, something that will drastically increase the amount gathered. heck, howabout a gas strip miner? mines 3 times as fast as a regular gas miner. with 3 of them, it's like having 9 gas miners. then you can also dedicate the procurer to gas mining, by giving it a 50% bonus to gas mined per mining barge skill level. it'll mine the stuff faster than a covetor, about as fast as a hulk with max skill. it'll have a much smaller cargohold, but hey, it's also a cheap ship. that's nice for nullsec mining, and may attract very new players in search of gas. and gas doesn't take up all that much space, so the only ones fussing over the cargohold are probably bot miners.also, with large yields via strip miners with their slow cycle times, you don't have to have only cycle time modifiers and instead can use output modifiers.strip harvester i200m3, 200s durationrequires gas cloud harvesting 4strip harvester ii300m3, 240s durationrequires gas cloud harvesting 5, mining 5procurer yield with max skills:tech i - 875m3/200s - 4.375/sectech ii - 1312.5m3/240s (eff. 1310m3) - 5.458/seccovetor yield with max skills:tech i - 750m3/200s - 3.75/sectech ii - 1125m3/240s - 4.688/sechulk yield with max skills:tech i - 937.5m3/200s (eff. 930m3) - 4.65/sectech ii - 1406.25m3/240s (eff. 1400m3) - 5.833/sechulk yield with max skills and gas harvester upgrade x2:tech i - 930m3/165.62s - 5.615/sectech ii - 1400m3/198.744s - 7.044/secship with 5x gas cloud harvester iis:100m3/40s - 2.5/seca potential upgrade of +181.76% gas harvested! - edited for thumbs! - ( ^___^)=b"
"booster demand isn't low because of price. its low because of lack of interest (which is a result of a lack of knowledge among the general populace) and severe penalties. the things came pre-nerfed. prices are actually relatively fair considering what it takes to make them (hint, don't buy from jita, find a dealer).as for the guy saying \"you're harvesting the wrong gas.\" feel free to make an actual contribution. notice the spreadsheet above. thats helpful. and i conceded that some gas harvesting is profitable, but i maintain that due to a low barrier to entry and a highly volatile market, gas harvesting simply is not a highly profitable venture. making it so you can harvest faster is not going to change that fact."
"im still voting for a complete top end barge rebuild and i want it t1 forget this over priced t2 crap. make it a little smaller then he orca and orca like defensive system and mining rates around the same would be perfect to me."
"a: the noctis is a tech 2 ship... so saying a \"tech 2 version\" of the noctis is kinda silly.b: the gas mining ship idealy should be similar to the mining barges we already have... strip miner type.personally i think your mining the wrong gas."
"the noctis doesn't seem to be denoted as either t1 or t2, but considering it is constructed solely from t1 minerals (i.e. no morphite) it would be considered t1.i don't really see a need for a dedicated gas harvesting ship."
"ask people what ship they use to mine gas most will tell you a bc or bs. maybe i'm just an elitist, but a battlecruiser should be firing guns, not draging fishing nets over the side for income.in a game of fancy spaceships, combat ships should be the last option to go mining in. well unless your name is chribba."
"from 2008 post by wrangler"
"my problem isnt small but affects few people so i thought it may be relovent for this team.i live in a 0.0 npc sov area, my alliance has been there 5 years. we have 6 systems that are npc sov. this was not a problem before the new sov changes because all of the systems would get the same amount of sites for farming/ratting/hacking etc. for npc nullsec systems i propose a mechanic that would increase the systems worth somehow. whether it be through a combination of missions, faction, and cost. we are willing to do the work and understand having better systems would require us to defend them more, but that is the nature of every system. why not allow us to leverage these npc factions so there systems are better?this is a very niche reply seeing as though there are not many npc owned nullsec areas. but i dont think it should go overlooked.thank yousan"
"i'd like to offer some insight into fixing problems more easily, but most of what i might say would sound redundant and has already been said. however, there is one recurring problem i frequently notice in online games: the producers seem to listen a lot to the talk on the forums, while that's not necessarily representative of the actual playerbase. to give an example of what i mean: the drake stands out in its niche and does what it does particularly well. those players who enjoy the drake and/or have the appropriate skills to make use of it find it to be a great ship and have no reason to go to the forums to talk about it when they could be flying it. but on the other hand, the players who don't have the skills to fly it and/or don't find it to be an enjoyable ship will swear up and down that it is overpowered. they will take this issue to the forums.so in the end, you hear about all of the problems here on the forums, but you don't see how many players agree that it's a problem versus how many disagree. perhaps that means there needs to be more voting, i'm not sure. hope that helps.p.s.: my personal opinion is that the drake's low damage output makes it ideally suited for tanking and nothing else, and the overuse of it in fleet warfare is due to laziness and poor planning skills. but don't take my word for it. be your own judge!and i will swear up and down that you can't deny that the rifter is overpowered. i love flying those things, they make up over 50% of my total frigate flying. in retrospect, i'd like to see more pilots of other tech 1 frigates prove me wrong..."
"not since like 2006, no, i haven't had an issue with this.you do realize you answered your own question, right? . o o ( is that fair? really? forget to upgrade. it happens..fair enough. )but, since you're such an uber elitist you should remember a time in eve when if you got podded in a clone that was sub-par, you lost all sp down to that clone level (yes, this included alpha clones). albeit, there wasn't a lot of training being done back then to begin with (not like today) but count your lucky stars - it could be worse.having said that, i absolutely vote no on changing the clone system whatsoever. it is designed to provide a lot of functionality including punishing those who are boisterous, forgetful or just plain stupid... i'm going to go with the latter in your case as you should know better than to jump back into a fleet fight with an alpha clone.tl;drtho i must agree that sp tears are very tasty - thanks for sharing them!"
"so much dumb in this thread.1) npcing in a carrier in cyno-jammed 0.0 is risk free unless you are an idiot or **** up. your align time is considerably quicker than the minimum \"jump in, drop probes, get result, warp to it\" time. even if that werent' the case, if the enemy has a big enough gang to break your tank (+your friends also ratting in system remote reps) then you should have heard about it 5 jumps earlier on intel channels.2) \"isk inflation works the same as lp inflation\" - no it does not! with lp inflation, all those causing inflation (eg mission runners) suffer from it, and therefore are disincentivised to mission ***** for that faction further due to the decrease in value of the lps. this causes balance. with isk inflation on the otherhand, the whole of eve suffers for the sins of only the sanctum runners - the incentives dont change, doing anything other than sanctums just gets even more worthless.3) the guy saying to switch sanctum rewards to drops, good idea, but they cant be aimed at being comparable to before. 100m isk/hr with one account and almost no risk is not healthy for the economy. that all said, as a compromise i'd be happy to have the same level of sanctums back again but no local in 0.0. that would balance the risk-reward a little more."
"i wonder if the anomaly changes would have been better received if instead of removing certain classes of spawns from certain security ranges completely, the respawn rate was lowered based on system security."
"the difference is, i do not need to do so, unlike u because u're just too scared to handle any consequence whatsoever.slippery slope. try again.nice fail on missing:in conclusion, this all just boils down to 2 morons straw-man crying about the same things they just make up over and over again, just so they can keep their safety. epic entertainment indeed. and after this post, they'll do exactly that once again. so plz continue and show everyone how risk-averse and scared u r when u want to stay safer carebearing in your high sec alts."
"1. of course i'm assuming urist and stabs aren't the same person, since can flipping between two different people is something that happens all the time. you know, as a manner of basic piracy, not laundering. 2. so now when someone flips your can, the items are just gone forever? taken by magical customs officers who have no business mucking around in asteroid belts? as it is now, someone flipping your can means you can attack them and get your stuff back. even if laundering was as big a problem as you've made it out to be, your solution is far to hamfisted and disrupts far too much to make it worth it."
"1. and the rules would still be unchanged for anyone above -5.2. re-read it again 'cause it's not like -10s would stay in high sec to get shot at, let alone can flip in the first place. and even if he's stupid enough to warp in, u can attack him on sight.i'm guessing u're one of rented or danika's alts with their lack of reading comprehension and no common sense at all, continuing to repeat everything because u've got nothing. typical but go ahead and see how that works out for u."
"this, time to completely reform the wardec systemif they want pvp they can move to null or low"
"if you don't want pvp you can move to hello kitty online.see? now we both sound like *******s."
"well, i'm not trying to get rid of wardecs, just get rid of griefing as a profession"
"why are you trying to use other mmos standards for \"griefing\" in eve? war decs are not griefing. even constant, continuous war decs of a corp are not griefing. suicide gankings are not griefings, in the context of eve. they might be in other games, but not here.to paraphrase a movie: \"i don't think that word means what you think it means.\""
"if you want to make war harder to get into, you should have proposal for making it harder to get out of too.right now, i can waste 2m isk and 48 hours extremely easily. the 2m isk i don't care about. the 48 hours is a problem. of course for the low low price of 1bn isk a year, i can trade that in for 50m isk and only 24 hours wasted.either way, this concept of \"griefing war\" is an absolute nonsense, because immunity from war is rolled into the game design, nobody can actually grief you with the war mechanic unless you allow them to.there is no reason to penalise players for trying to grief you beyond the penalties you can already push onto them using the game mechanics as they exist today. in fact, having to pay 48 hours is a penalty forced onto me so often, i consider it griefing. since you want to stop griefing, let's do something about this war griefing. no more corp leaving, no more logging out and playing on alts, no more logging out and playing tanks or league of legends instead. when you're at war, you're automatically logged in and set adrift at a safe spot. yeah that should do it.sounds ridiculous when it's turned around doesn't it?"
"nothing mentioned in this thread so far consitutes griefing"
"sometimes i think a corp that is being war dec'd or that is war dec'ing should not be able to accept or remove any corp members till the war is renewed / or over. ( once a week ).too many times you get a 1 person corp do the war dec, then woosh -everyone joins that corp.on the other hand...you do the war deccing, and then whoosh - all the miners / haulers have left the corp you just war dec'd till the war is over.-just a thought"
"if a war dec is basically bribing concord to look the other way, how about the defending corp can bribe concord to not do so? so if the attacking corp pays the initial wardec fee, the defending corp can pay concord the same amount to nullify the war. the attacking corp can then pay double to reinitiate, and the defending corp can pay that amount to nullify, repeating until one party gives up. basically, give the defending corp a way to defend with their economic might. could be a nice isk sink too."
"i like that idea nikita."
"actually it would be much more effective to hire a merc to address the situation rather than rely on some contrived game mechanic. you know support home grown player driven activities that solve player social conflicts with out the use of the ccp hand holding."
"all wrecks already are ffa. and it's not fair if concord protects the thief and doesn't let you kill him."
"topic not supported. tthis would render the branch of scanning in high sec nearly obsolote. suddenly ninjas would certainly thank you for making them instant carebears if they hadnt to scan down their victims first. thats part of the fun.also mission earnings have been nerfed already by reducing its value. still its part of mission income. if you take the loot - you must live with the consequences. dont be so and demand free loot for all. thats not the game mechanics to get the loot on a silver plate. game mechanic is that the loot belongs to someone else, you scan it, you take it, you be marked as a pirate and you can be shoot. wrecks made blue should be scanable very easy, so they dont get wasted. why should i leave wrecks in missions blue if they cant be found?"
"bump."
"title says it all. lottos now comprise atleast half of sell order forums. they deserve their own forum.its a real pain in the ass when your looking for a bpo or ship deal and you've got to sort out all the lottos.sooooooo, lets make it happen. i voted for you....whoever you are.thanks"
"after some talks in a thread regarding supercarrier nerfs, i had this idea. it probably isn't going to be a complete solution, but i am of the mindset that before we turn to the nerf-bat, we should either buff older mechanics, or make new ones that could potentially make capital warfare more interesting. also, a little thinking outside the box never hurt anyone.so this leads me to the point (oh, that is such a terrible pun if you know what's coming) of this thread...capital interdictor vesselsone of the main issues brought up about supers is their ability to either neut down, or outright kill heavy interdictors, one of only two ships in the game capable preventing a supercarrier from warping off or jumping to safety. the only other option then is dictor bubbles, but they are only temporary, and the ships that lay down more of them die if you look at them funny. buffing hictors to the point where they can hang with a supercarrier just seems absurd to me, it'd be like trying to get a chihuahua to hold down mike tyson.what im proposing a capital-class interdictor vessel. it would have terrible dps, but its tank would be superior to a dreadnought's, and it would be able to equip a capital warp jamming module (basically, a bigger, meaner version of the hictor's focused point). i imagine it would need to have an ecm immunity (either naturally, or when its point is activated) so that a couple falcons don't render it useless. its point could even be similar to a dread's siege module, hindering its mobility, but boosting its defenses while providing an ecm immunity.what this would do is add more risk to supercarrier hotdrops, which is something a lot of supers don't currently have.imagine this scenario- group a decides to drop some carriers repping a pos/ihub/station with a super or two. - group b manages to pin the supers with hictors.- the hictors hold on for dear life until group b lights a cyno, and jumps in a couple capital interdictors along with a capital kill-team of carriers, dreads and maybe a couple supers.- at this point, group a has two choices. either let their hotdropping super(s) die, or escalate the situation.- group a escalates, as does group b, and what started as a small hotdrop turns into a full-on brawl between two capital fleets.basically, this would force supercarriers into more life or death situations, and would lead to them actually dying. it would force them to choose their targets carefully, and weed out pilots who are sloppy with their supers. it would add a threat to supers that they couldn't just neut out, or shred in seconds with their drones.of course, supercarrier hotdrops would still happen, since not every group could assemble a kill-team quick enough to catch the super...but the threat of it would still there. hictors would still have their place in sub-cap fleets, and to get the initial tackle on a super-cap, but they would no longer have to die in droves to keep a super pinned down.just seems like this could add an interesting new element to capital warfare, and give us a shiny new captial ship to fly. it makes sense, from a military point of view. when a new weapon system is debuted, there is always a period where it is uncontested...but eventually, a counter is always made.tl;dr- dread-sized interdictor vessel with a capital focused point.- can point down supers without being neuted all to hell and/or being shredded in seconds by their drones."
"i would love a dread sized interdictor!"
"whoever activates a tractor beam first gets the wreck pulled to him/her. makes ninja-salvaging a valid mini-profession again and makes it easier to salvage null fights. tractoring someone's wreck however gives you agro, salvaging doesent.before you whine about your lvl 4's go away, more professions make it a cooler game and i wanna salvage stuff in space like in andromeda. people might steal your mission objective, who cares...marauders become slightly more attractive because they can gather wrecks from farther away but noctis alts are still better. t2 rigs drop in price a bit just because people dont mind going into lagfests with a salvage cane pretending to pvp while really just salvaging t2/t3 ships. it constricts lvl 4's a bit more making the endless supply of isk/lp a little less intense.these are some posts i have added answering peoples questions, if you have an argument about this proposal, please take the time to read these explanation posts i have pulled from the thread"
"i would love this.. it's always so annoying when i'm in a fleet with some corpies doing missions together, and someone drops, that i can't tractor their wrecks as the designated salvage pilot."
"i would only support this on abandoned wrecks.otherwise, it can be easily abused to grief."
"so? tractoring someones wreck makes them red to you in this plan, if they are griefing you shoot them."
"not sure how i feel about the tractoring + aggression thing. i suppose it makes a little more sense than just prohibiting the action entirely. not sure if marauders need another nerf though.i'd personally just make them tractorable in low and null, but the proposal as a whole is better than things as they stand now, so it gets my +1."
"yellow wrecks should turn blue after 5-10 minutes of inactivity"
"aww poor baby, need a bottle? howabout training wheels on your trike, or maybe one of those walker chairs so you can get around without learning how?more options to players = good. paying the consequence of those actions also = good, and fair. so i agree with tractoring wrecks and getting aggro for it. i also think the stupid pop-up message should stop asking you if you really want to steal from this person when you've recently stolen from them and still have aggro."
"no, he needs his bike bottle and tv stolen"
"why exactly would you be hit with agro for tractoring wrecks around? if nothing has been stolen, it makes no sense."
"because dramiel+mwd = impossible to catch mission objective..."
"double"
"yes, because a pvp ship doesn't already have a huge combat advantage over a pve ship. now let's grief them and tell them it's fair because they can shoot the aggressor.actually, the baby here is you. you're the one asking ccp for training wheels because you're not good enough to shoot at other pvpers. instead, you want ccp to spoon-feed you pve ships so you can then brag on how awesome your killboard stats are ."
"i would propose a slight modification in that i would have it so that you aggress if you tractor the wreck of someone outside your corp and/or alliance. otherwise fully supported."
"so, bring a noctis and a logistics into the site, hoover everything up whilst laughing mightily and then gtfo?whilst this is exactly the kind of ******ed crap we'd expect ccp to give the green light to, not supported because its a terrible idea."
"i agree with mr. \"uncatchable mission objective\". admitted the thing would be only going 500 m/s but that's still five times faster than a bs fit for tanking l4s."
"you people are missing the point. in eve, there is something called \"risk/reward\". now, with this proposal, you can shoot npc's, collect lp/bounties, tractor/salvage, whatever but there remains a chance that you will have someone try to reduce your income and steal some for themselves. now comes the choice (risk) part of it, you can shoot them and make them stop, hell you can round up the corp and bait them but you still have the choice to do nothing. you are all acting like aggression automatically means you have to shoot back, it doesn't. risk: shoot your ninja-salvagerreward: keep all your salvagerisk: dont shoot your ninja salvager and remain safe from agroreward: you get less isk because someone stole all your salvagei honestly dont know how to spell it out clearer than this. it's the same reasoning with every proposal, people automatically assume that whenever risk/reward is introduced into high sec that its going to force them to take the higher risk, higher reward path. but you can simply decline fighting and suffer the fact that someone took your wrecks. pve ships dont stand a chance against a properly fit pvp ship, so how about you have one of your corp mates on standby in a pvp ship for instances like this? dont belong to a corp? join one its a mmo for a reason. dont want to join a corp? dont want to pvp? then you dont get the cookie (salvage).highsec is the only place in eve where risk/reward is barley visable for pve content. 0.0 and lowsec all have risk/reward associated with them. want to rat in the best system? you have to put up defense fleets. want to run 10/10's? your going to need to run scouts and be prepared to get hotdropped.thats why you get agro, so you can shoot and kill people that make your mission objective \"uncatchable\". i also think that taking mission objectives for the sole purpose of making people's lives hard is considered griefing and is bannable, correct me if im wrong."
"never thought i would do this, but i agree with the goon."
"it should show your employment history - but not the dates and not the start date.too easy to click a character and size them up too easily by the start date.if you see a 2004 player vs a 2011 player - you know who will in.if you see however joe vs bob - its more even playing field.i understand the original post and somewhat agree with it. -read my above suggestion."
"i support this, it will be hilarious if this change occurs."
"supported for obviousness"
"counter proposal: remove concord intervention in mission areas."
"not supported as an isolated change."
"troll, please lock thread"
"trolling troll is trolling...ibtl."
"you do know that there has never been a csm composed primarily of highsec or pve-oriented players, right? running a campaign based on fear and misinformation to rile up your own base is one thing, but being dumb enough to buy into your own misinformation is another altogether..."
"somewhat ot but i can state that elvenlord was all hugs and kisses with some of the devs at fanfest. i can also state torfi is opposed to the csm."
"my big issue is that there is somebody on the csm right now who is also ccp. not saying any names but i am sure any smart person could figure it out. i personally think that is a conflict of interest."
"ccpsm?"
"goonswarm are a bad thingcaldari are a good thingyou are a mixed one!"
"simply put, you should be able to tractor beam someone elses wreck in worm hole space. nobody owns anything in wh's.so all wrecks should start as \"blue\" - and be free for all."
"and you shouldnt have to pay taxes on pi in a wh...but no one is going to get either of those so not supported.if you want \"free\" loot from someone else get a few friends in frigs with mwds.on another note i still cannot understand why i cant tractor anyones stuff in any space. isnt ninja salvaging supposed to be a profession or something? my guns are not kept from firing on that mission runner but i cant move his loot in a fast way towards me."
"100% agree canta"
"supported, check out the thousand papercuts project, and that new one around here with a similar title."
"try waiting 18 months.serious answer: ccp aren't going to just stop releasing new features."
"didn't we wind up with one of these threads directly after dominion, and the expansion we shall not name because it was so god-awful?"
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images.i hope this could help visualize what im thinking"
"i said before that i don't think there should be destroyer or battlecruiser sized weapons. well perhaps there could be smallish medium weapons and mediumish large weapons. these weapons have much heavier powergrid requirements than their smaller cousins, and so wouldn't be easy to fit on a destroyer or battlecruiser. instead, a cruiser or battleship could fit the smaller weapons to save powergrid for its tank, or to gain faster tracking if it's willing to give up some dps. a great example would be the stabber, a cruiser that is so fast it can easily outmaneuver its own autocannons. with smaller autocannons (but not frigate-sized), it could still do decent damage and not have to slow down to hit anything.alternatively, you might fit a larger weapon or two on a destroyer or battlecruiser if you have a lot of powergrid and you want to focus it on dps. a good example of this might be the harbinger. with several powergrid rigs and reactor control units, you could fit perhaps 3 or 4 'battlecruiser' size weapons, in addition to the regular cruiser weapons. it wouldn't have jack for tank, but its dps would be higher than any other battlecruiser and almost comparable to a battleship.and the weapons would count as either of the two sizes for skill bonuses.not a particularly useful option, though i can't help but think about them whenever i'm fitting a harbinger or dogfighting in a stabber. without further ado, i give you the destroyer-sized autocannon and battlecruiser-sized pulse laser:200mm vulcan autocannon * compare to the 200mm autocannon and the dual 180mm autocannon24mw powergrid and 14tf cpu1400m optimal and 6000m falloff0.22 rad/sec tracking4.1 sec duration, 2.3x damageammo damage: 7.5 - 18focused heavy pulse laser * compare to the heavy pulse laser and the dual heavy pulse laser700mw powergrid and 36tf cpu14km optimal and 5000m falloff0.052 rad/sec trackingactivation cost: 18gj5.6 sec duration, 2.5x damageammo damage: 15 - 36p.s. the x-large shield extender would probably take too much powergrid to fit comfortably on a drake, as they have very low powergrid for a battlecruiser. but if you fit 1 x-large instead of 2 or 3 large, you get more slots for resistance but sacrifice dps (can't fit hams). it wouldn't make the drake more powerful, but rather would push it even further into it's special niche: passive shield tanking. 2 pilots could (or can right now, even) use a drake to draw fire while a high power battlecruiser (harbinger?) does most of the killing in relative safety. and it won't work on sleepers, especially if the harbinger had 3-4 focused heavy pulse lasers - they'd pop it in seconds!-edit-p.p.s. having more sizes of shield extenders, prop mods, or what else won't require any new skills be trained. all sizes of afterburners use just one afterburner skill, all sizes of shield extenders use one shield upgrades skill, all sizes of energy vampires use one energy emissions skill, etc, etc. my new proposed weapons (which i don't expect to be taken seriously, anyway) would perhaps require their own skills and ammo. or maybe they'll just use the larger skill and ammo, and have reduced damage modifiers to match.p.p.p.s.* 2x battlecruiser rails on a raven* 1x destroyer ham on a thrasher* full rack of battlecruiser rails on an afk tank dominix* destroyer hams on a drake with x-large shield extender <-- epic noob fail* destroyer rails on a thorax with room for tank (aka i don't know how to fit a thorax)"
"lvl 5's are more profitable than incursions... i assume you want these ceo missions in highsec, thats what your getting at right?well then you cant have them because there are already unlimited isk printing machines called lvl 4's that have no risk associated with them."
"well, no, lets make it like this, the missions require you to travel to null.oh never mind i'm not going to win here"
"how about corp level mission running?"
"i know what your talking about, its just we have group pve content with massive rewards, lvl 5's, exploration, wormholes, incursions..."
"//signed"
"dont forget to check support"
"supported, avatar needs this"
"imagine the possibilities of a conga line, barrel rolling maelstrom fleet. :thumbsup:"
"no"
"as i do recall, the goons have probably been the ones to contribute the most to this game in making it become the eve you play now.ah yes, a good number of occasions and conflict between the goons and ccp do fit this statement."
"at the risk of assuming that you're not just trolling... we've already been over the many logical fallacies this sort of claim is based on. you've added a few more. we've got the anecdotal fallacy, the biased sample fallacy and the fallacy of hasty generalization. all in all they're fairly basic population-dynamics fallacies that are quite easy to learn, identify, and thereby avoid. these are cognitive skills that your average 12 year old can learn, at least once they pass the threshold between concrete and abstract thinking. so it should be a simple matter for any adult to master logical thinking along this axis and make sloppy, fallacious rationalizations literally un-thinkable. if they actually want to, that is."
"we're going to meet and formalize our summit topics, plus upvote certain proposals we view as needing official validation (the 'fix lag'/time dilation one comes to mind). mains and alts are both welcome to attend. if you as a csm member want to get an item addressed in the meeting, post the proposal wiki link in this thread between now and the beginning of the meeting."
"leave them just the way they are: a boring grind.incursions are fun to do and should be the key, but their needs to be more of them at one time in high sec areas. i suggest two active incursions in all 4 empires at the same time at all times. that way more carebear tears (the ones who just cry and wait it out or relocate) and more peeps forced to rise up to clear them out to. they'll learn how to ban together, fit fleet ships and learn the structure. right now their are pretty much 2 main competing fleets (1-aromor and 1-shield) and some folks clamoring to get in them since they are so well organized.out of that maybe just maybe more will be wanting to venture outside of their high sec mission hubs and be willing to add a little spice in their eve lives."
"hrm... i have valid points, i cite my claims, and i'm telling the truth and the other guy is verifiably lying and trolling. such is life. i will point out the minor irony of posting to tell people to stop posting, though."
"supported! really great work-out and pos really needs a rework..."
"supported since it's first proposal in 2006. still waiting for ccp to pay attention. supporting again for posterity."
"i can't stress enough how much support this thread has from me.i especially love the updated design that shows how the towers defenses can be made vulnerable.also i want these things in a pos revamp:- ability to \"base at\" an individual in the roles system at a specific pos.- ability to dock at a pos.- ability to moore ships at a pos (as in having a physical object, or tractor beam attached to the ship, locking it in place and preventing it from being bumped out of the shield)coding/design suggestions on how to get docking at pos's to work!as far as docking is concerned, coding can take a look at how 3rd party mods did it in freelancer. basically you would run a dock request on an object or ship. if the server deemed it dock-able, it would load you into a station environment tied to that object/ship.you could do that in eve, and the only real problem from my complete lack of insight into how the code really works... would be that you would need to generate the station environment and link it to that tower. as far as undocking is concerned, you could just have the ship appear in x radius around the tower, just like how ships appear around a cyno after jumping. allowing the undock to be random like that does two things: prevents the necessity to have hard coded undock ports, and #2 doubles as a preventative of ships auto-flying out of a pos bubble after undocking.hell, you get something like that working ccp, and you might even be able to get it working in a way that allows you to make us a mothership that is dockable in the process. but the pos is more important, imho."
"fixed it for you.please,this is so awesome,it will make poss interesting and fun again,i might even find it fun to fuel such a work of art as posted in the original thread!"
"because hybrids f..king suck? at least caldari got missiles!! wawnna trade?"
"take a look at the word hybrid. it means a melt between to systems.lets go from there...why not let ammo deside how the weapon works. i a player loads rail ammo the gun will fire as a rail. if the player loads blaster ammo it will work as a blaster.2 guns in one. a hybrid.both rail and blasters suck so much that combined they just about make a decent weapon."
"just nerf supercaps. dont boost dreads, dreads are balanced, the issue is with supers, they need to be nerfed. sure you can boost dreads to deal with them, then boost carriers to keep them balanced, followed by bs, bc, cruisers, etc. or you just nerf supers and are ready with it.that is imposssible. only way that used to be possible was aoe doomsday. right now the ideal 500 men fleet would probably be 475 supers + 25 dictors, and besides bringing more of the same, the only counters is thousands of non-supers, not to mention how many subcaps you would need.now with your theoretical fleet of 500 dreads (lets say again 475 dreads + 25 dictors). the result against an equally sized bs group would be horrible, for the dreads. because dreads are completely useless against subcaps they are nicely balanced, so also dont start ****ing with moros drone damage bonus, that was a stupid bonus in the first place and should never come back (and yes only dread i fly is a moros)."
"i found this in another thread, and it illustrates the root causes of why gallente fail at anything but ganking."
"my biggest problem with the pos setup is the distinct lack of usable security features. it all works great until you want multiple members of multiple access levels accessing the same pos (which is pretty much all we use our poses for; we are a wh corp)the majority of the security problems would be solved quite simply by making an items and a ships module for the pos. what i mean by this is instead of forcing everyone to use the corp hangar, it would go a long way to security issues if we had a personal hangar and personal items space just like one would in a station; a separate pos module that provides these services to members.that's the only part that i feel is disabling about living in a pos -- you can't keep your stuff safe! and when i want to keep all my shinies with me in a pos i don't want it so that anyone in corp can walk off with it!the only problem i can see is when it comes to removing items from the pos when a member who has items stored is offline. that could mean that it's not possible to move anything. if it was possible to remove stuff from the module without the owner's permission it would probably leave us back at square 1, but maybe members will just have to trust their directors and ceo..?edit: adding this:the other possibility would be to have a permissions system per pos module like for chat rooms or mailing lists -- only the listed people are allowed to access this module."
"this!or a variation of thisplease anything to make poses livable inmake any or all of the folowing:- tabs in ship array- personal tabs in hangar/ship array (noone can acces anyone elses personal tab, maybe only ceo can purge a users personal tab to save space, destroying anything inside)- creation of infinite number of tabs with as many permissions to setup a tab per corp member, or infinite tabs with passwords- a new personal items and ships module as sugested by kidzukurenai - anchoring gsc inside shields (special larger pos containers for this purpose)in short any sollution so that members can have their own personal stuff without fear of theft, and the other way around, solution so that a corp can have (new) members they dont trust with valuable corp assetsplease make poses possible to live in for a corp with more than 5 members- also opening gsc (and other cans) from a hangar without having to switch to a indy and move it into cargo to open the thing"
"^ this ^also, i would like to see them able to be docked at, thus providing private ship and item hangars for corporation members that use it. this should utilize a system of \"shared storage space\" where the pos is upgraded to store xm3 of items, and ym3 of ships. security officer role would allow an individual to pull out of a persons personal ships & items hangar at that pos for cases where someone goes inactive, or is taking up to much space.and omfg please implement this part asap!we need to be able to \"based at\" a player in the roles system to a pos!!!! this would alleviate a *ton* of the woes of the roles setup for pos access!!!"
"why don't you discus the things they sit on and push for the tech nerf.you know the thing that you expressed interest in doing pre election."
"well i tested out the \"captains quarters\" this past weekend on duality and they re-did the entire npe. you start in the station and work your way out. i thought it was better than the last one. if there was one thing i would want to add, its that the eft and other helpful tools be added to the client along with some kind of beefed up evelopedia."
"first of all just fix the ui, that is the main problem. second, put all devs respondible for npe in the rookie help chat for a week, and afterwards tell them to have fun with npe for a month, with threath you can always put them back in rookie help, result: npe is alot better within 1 week + 1 month.for example dunno if it is still like that, but for a long time when of the rookie missions was mining an asteroid, in a field filled with unminable asteroids without the one you needed by default on your overview, and the one you couldnt mine were on your overview, with no help on how to fix that. obvious fix would be to make the default overview less idiotic.anyway, here you got your list:linkage"
"from what i tested on duality when cq was being tested ccp is going in the right direction. i do however feel it should be a necessity that the tutorials has voice over. not just for cool factor, i found myself getting bored and irritated at having to read every popup window.something like having the popup window companioned with audio. add a checkbox that says \"disable tutorial voiceover\" so those who don't want to hear it and just want to read can. then add a button that says \"repeat voiceover\" or something catchy and self explanatory. upon hitting the next button you are automatically presented with the voiceover tutorial, unless you disabled it via the checkbox.my two cents as i think it would greatly enhance the npe."
"as i remember it, the isk grind is way too intensive at the beginning, especially if you have no friends in eve. i know you can sell a plex, but maybe new players on trial do not want to do that just yet. give new accounts a balance of 20 million isk to get things going. give them a mail suggesting a few ways to spend it, maybe a t1 cruiser fit for pvp and can one for pve (drawn from a pool of fits). give them meaningful tip on medium term skill planning. battleship just sound so cool, but their usefulness is a lot limited in fast moving pvp, not much \"battle\" over them. maybe suggest training for one of the advanced cruisers or frigates unless pve is the desire. the specifics of the advice i will let you figure out, you get my idea right?tell new players hybrids suck :d"
"i support this"
"not supported angry angry enough bot - money - reputation laundering"
"ccp has some decent reasons for not allowing name changes, but the benefits to the player community outweigh the concerns.simply listing the name change in the characters employment history would solve most if not all concerns; though it would require players to take extra steps to research historical data in some cases (e.g. they would have to search market data for all names a character has held, etc.). ccp could probably develop more comprehensive solutions, but its not worth the dev time.at the very least, character renaming should be an optional add-on to the character transfer service for a fee. the original account owner should be able to wipe the character name during the transfer process. the character, of course, could not be played until a new name was entered."
"hictors *are* the ship whose job it is to pin down supers: they were introduced (at least partially) to tackle otherwise invulnerable moms in lowsec."
"that was their original purpose, yes. capital warfare has changed though.titan doomsdays are no longer laughably weak and tankable, and the former motherships have grown teeth, claws and a bad attitude to match.you can't really buff up hictors to be able to compete with that, or they become overpowered in their primary role, sub-cap fleet warfare...and you can't beat supercarriers too badly over the head with the nerf bat, or they return to the useless ships they used to be. that's why i tried to propose a third option. don't try to discourage people from flying a ship they want to fly, instead, give out some buffs and add some more variety to try and encourage people to fly different ships (while bringing a little more balance to the equation in the process)."
"on the one hand, that can be addressed through bandwidth limitation or the existing game mechanic of \"can fit x of module y.\"on the other hand, revenant bpcs aren't exactly falling like rain, son why wouldn't a rare ship be allowed to have some perks? i support the call to render scs \"vulnerable\" to all ewar. adjust the ewar resistance numbers to make sense. \"focussed warp disruption\" script thus gets a value of eg 10000 warp disruption strength, sc gets a base warp stability of 500. you could conceivably warp disrupt it with a fleet of 100 ships, or just use 1 hic.set the sensor strength really high (like say the 150-odd it is right now) and let the sc pilot determine whether they wish to use eccm or not. target dampeners (using resolution scripts) used in conjunction with jammers will make every successful jam important to the outcome of the fight.i agree with ed that we need fewer special game mechanics, in order for the game to be more fluid. removing ewar immunity will encourage more diverse fittings for scs."
"big ships are traditionally vulnerable to small ships in eve.... its what makes the game great, as it enables a low sp character to play an important function in pvp. most battleships are vulnerable to tackling frigates and inties... most titans and sc's were vulnerable to tackling hictors... since you can't buff hictors to actually tackle supercarriers, perhaps supercarriers aught to be nerfed...."
"i don't even save fittings, and i support this product and/or service. forcing dependency on an external server is just poor form when it comes to non-exploitable things like this."
"chat windowswe need better tabbing on chat windows... and as much as it pains me to link a picture to the windows os.. this is what i mean. instead of just one row of chat channel tabs, we can have multiples instead of it shrinking channel names and moving stuff to a drop down list if you want it all in one big chat window. this would save those of us who are in many channels a lot of hassle, especially when it comes to organizing where in your ui they are all going.edit: also have the order of our chat windows stick. i can't stand having a different order on my chat tabs almost every time i log in.the local channelallow us to detach the members list of local from the chat window itself. a big chunk of veteran players don't even bother speaking in local, and only care about it's use as an intel tool.additionally, i would like to see data from local displayed on our neocom by means of having the colored overview symbols on it with a number next to it that designates how many people of that standing are in the system with you. my vision is displaying this similar to how people report stuff in nullsec security channels:-3 xyz-12 solar systemcurrent location information (top left corner)allow this to be moved, or even hidden. also disconnect the waypoint information and let us move that around as well. i'd like to see the ability to have my route spanned across the length of the top, bottom or even side of my screen, instead of wrapping around every 2 inches.update the hudthe main ships interface for our weapons, health display and the buttons attached to it needs to be changed. right now while we do have a moderate bit of control over it, the shape and size of it is over-all un-appealing. i'd like to have the ability to choose a box-shaped hud that will be easier to implement into my overall ui organization.the overviewthis is core to how the game is played. honestly i don't know how to re-engineer it to be better over-all, however having the option to have essentially two rows of data for a target would be nice.heres what i'm picturing: instead of having one row and stretching your overview across a quarter of your screen (i'm on 24\" 1920x1200) in order to be able to view the tag, icon, distance, name, type, corp ticker, alliance ticker, velocity & transversal, i'd like the ability to have a second row so i can have more data per target on my overview without having to stretch the over-view even further than it is now.yes, something like that means more scrolling when in larger engagements - but ultimately i think it would make the feel in-combat a lot better to me.directional scannerlet us set the distance in au. (ex. enter 1.5 to get 1.5 au distance) instead of kilometers. i know the kilometer system exercises a fantastic amount of control, but it makes getting smaller pinpoint d-scans a royal pain in the tuckus. also, make it easier to select the smaller d-scan angles. rigt now you can spend 5-10 seconds adjusting to get it to the correct d-scan angle when you'r in the low ends.third, add a checkbox that puts a circle on screen that shows the area the d-scan will cover. this will add a great aid not only for those of us who have been playing for years, but also for new players as well.overheatingright now the status of overheating can be misleading. for example when you toggle overheat it doesn't actually toggle until the next module cycle. we need a way to see before that module cycles if our request went through so we don't have to button mash to make sure our request to stop/start the module overheat when through. this needs to be done on a per-module level; as people like me will use hotkeys to overheat each specific module manually and turn each one on/off as needed."
"need some drone love from ccp"
"support"
"i wish something like that were possible, but ccp would never go for it. and sp remimbursement is not the goal of the \"uninject\" option."
"this explains alot."
"yes a sad sad day in eve. if this crap keeps up i might unsub all my accounts."
"this proposal is focusing on one of multiple boosts that should be given to black ops.it is my belief that focusing on boosting things like: lock range, powergrid, capacitor, scan resolution and such will not make the ship class as popular and useful as people want them to be. what needs to be done is increase the ships ability to support a fleet of stealth ships.currently the only thing a black ops can do for a stealth fleet is move them around. some proposals have focused on allowing jumps into high sec and increasing range. while these things would make the ship more attractive i believe something else is needed.this proposal is to either allow black ops to fit special gang links or give them fleet bonuses like titans. these bonuses would only affect ships with jump harmonics 2.the specific boosts that would be possible are beyond the scope of an assembly hall proposal. if you support black ops being able to fit specialized gang links or have boosts like titans please support this topic. it will be up to ccp what kinds of boosts and how effective they are.some might be inclined to say that this would make the ship too powerful, if you believe this but think the idea has potential please support the topic and mention in your post any ideas to prenerf this ability (ie make it so these boosts can only be granted from the squad position).the rest of this post will be suggestions and ideas for different types of boosts that would be possible please feel free to add your own. keep in mind that the exact strength of these boosts is not mentioned and that specific boosts are not part of this proposal.minmatar:boost velocity and sig radiusgallente:boost all e-war strength and rangecaldari:boost torpedoes (range, sig radius, explosion velocity)amarr:boost capacitor recharge time drasticallyunspecified/general:remove/reduce cloak penalties:reactivation delaysensor recalibration timescan resolution penaltyvelocity penaltyenhance module overload (reduce damage, increase effectiveness)[edit]: added line these bonuses would only affect ships with jump harmonics 2. thanks kazuo ishiguro that stipulation was in the original draft but got cut out by mistake."
"this idea is interesting and worth a further look. some modifications may be necessary such as gaining sec in low-sec anomalies and...what about those few gate and station rats? would definitely make low-sec a more active place (in good or bad ways as other posters stated)."
"for great justice, this returns to the top. let's make fof missiles a great weapon system we would be proud to use, and not the pathetic sub-hybrid joke they are now"
"in all honesty, fof missiles need to changed to one of two types:guided: they attack only enemies, regardless of target lock, but are significantly weaker due to this advantage. (change: only attacks enemies, stats stay same)fof powered: they attack any and all ships, are/almost are comparable to the 'standard' version of their size in damage. (change: not the best option for gang/fleet due to fof nature, good for solo pvp, can be used in missions but still not preferred) i personally like the second, which keeps the original nature intact (friend or foe). i would suggest that if the missiles are brought to full power of typical missiles, which would certainly help them be useful, that they have penalties like t2 ammo did to render them not as useful for mission running. this could be as simple as more pg/cpu needed, or some other factor. the point is fof was designed as a counter to ewar for missile ships. ewar is primarily a pvp type of combat, though there are missions that ewar can be a real pain in the butt. missions such as these could benefit from fof missiles as an alternative, but by and large the missiles need to be intended for solo pvp or pvp in general. effectively, you give missile users three types of missiles: assaults (short and powerful), typicals (long and slow), and fof (ewar counter)."
"i quite like your ideas and would say that your first idea is perhaps closest to my original proposal :)"
"we need to stop wiping the bottoms of carebears, you guys suck the life out of eve, except maybe wh corps (and even then only 2% are non lame pos hugging fliptards).make anomolies on overview, make all frig rats scram and make 0.0 worth taking a risk to pve in iskwise.hs and ls can fiddle accordingly."
"white tree is the dumbest member of the csm yet."
"there's absolutely no need for such baseless accusation.my main sentiment stands, that you've blown up a huge bluster over something that only you seem to think is an issue worth addressing. it's a lot easier to leave things as they are than to implement a series of rules and checks to eliminate what seems to be a non-issue."
"i don't have any -5 alts, pretty sure i've never even been negative sec at all on any characters. you're just an idiot. discarding low sec status alts is bannable since when? you want to make it bannable? how exactly is ccp supposed to know an alt has been discarded for this purpose? how does ccp even know you've discarded said alt at all? you realize accounts and characters are completely disposable rite?you propose ccp diverts resources to hunting down disposable 1-day middle-man alts and banning their true owners... to enforce your idiotic ideas about how reds should be prevented from interacting with highsec or anyone else who isn't also red? they don't even manage that for botting, which is an actual breach of game rules as opposed to your pathetic emorage induced ideas. lolololololololololserious question though, have you ever thought anything through... ever? have you ever taken reality into account when considering the implementation of your ideas? are complete thoughts ever formed? there should be a case study."
"that's not what ppl who complain about low sec being a \"deserted wasteland\" say. and when they're mostly only populated by -10s, there's your problem and here's the solution.1. that's what everyone says about their alts.2."
"this amazing idea has managed to gain the support of 1 person, you(unless you seriously thought the 'yes, remove pirates please' was serious... never know, but fairly sure it wasn't). i think there may have been a proposal to bring back megathron skins glitching to pink which gathered more support. everyone aside from you and the op who have posted in this thread (im uncertain if you're the same person, can't be bothered) has immediately seen, and announced their complete lack of support. obviously everyone else must be wrong, pink megathron glitches really are a vital part of eve, or you need to put on your tinfoil hat to accuse me of using a legion of alts (including csm members) to declare my wrongful lack of support in order to protect the negative sec alts i don't have because you really are just that deluded.in conclusion, this all just boils down to 1 moron straw-man crying about the same things they just make up over and over again, just so they can get revenge on the naughty reds that made them cry. epic entertainment indeed. and after this post, they'll do exactly that once again. so plz continue and show everyone how risk-averse and scared u r when u want to stay safer carebearing by punishing the naughty reds."
"isn't being able to pay off concord to look the other way in high security space a contrived game mechanic also? i think 'contrived' is a very loaded word, and not accurate here.as to the argument that hiring mercs encourages player driven emergent gameplay, i think that is an excellent point. i'm not sure whether that approach would be \"much more effective\" however - given that it costs 2 million isk to wardec a corporation, i'm not sure what sort of mercs you could hire for that amount who would be able to make the attacking corp retract."
"maybe \"contrived\" is a loaded word, but so is the bantering of the word \"griefing\". most of the posters here have no clue what that is, in relation to eve. there is a mechanic already in game to stop wars that fall under eve's definition of \"griefing\". and by simply submitting a petition to a third party (ccp) that can not be bribed with game isk, the result of such petition can render a judgement up to and including banning from the game.the cost is usually very reasonable for the results you get. not to mention it reinforces the actual game play that was intended in the first place, players actually playing the game with the tools available to them to achieve the desired result."
"i like this idea."
"i would like to see part of the war dec fee (~50%?) be put into a pool that the corp/alliance getting dec'ed can earn by destroying the enemy ships, paid out perhaps by insurance value. i.e. if the dec'ed alliance/corp kills an enemy ship, the insurance value(not actual insurance, just the value if it had insurance) would be taken from the pool and given to the dec'ed alliance/corp at the end of the war. just something to... promote pvp, or give incentive for people who whould have left corp to stay and fight."
"agree. owning a wreck because you blew up a ship never made any kind of sense, restricts gameplay, and is incredibly confusing for new players. this change would simplify things, enable new gameplay, and make the game more intuitive."
"i like the idea.if your worried about noobs - give them ownership of their own wrecks for a character that is up to 3 months or something.problem solved.newbies cannot be ninja'd easy - everyone else knows whats going on and is fair game."
"no. and make looting trigger gcc."
"not a sucking chest wound, you say...when sov null moves back to highsec for the gank to raise isk, you know tengus are in style."
"i think the original idea is great (not so sure about the device bit...unless there's a way to detect them, but even then...). this would balance out ganking a bit and make it a more positive experience (potentially) for the ganked."
"i like =)"
"damn good idea."
"this idea makes sense to me. anything that balances gameplay without whipping out the nerf bat should be supported.needs a name though, we can't just call them \"capital interdictors.\" (well we could, but that would be boring.)"
"while i like the idea of capital interdictors, i'd have to ask, who'd buy one? regardless of the number of supers in the game, super hot drops are still relatively rare. hictors have already lost out in favour of the lighter, faster and more easily skilled and replaceable dictors. i'd suggest that instead of a capital interdictor, a capital warp disruption field generator fitted to the otherwise, incredibly boring, sov grinding, dread. this way the dread pilots can have a bone thrown their way at the same time, provided they have the skills for said module."
"a special module for dreadnoughts is certainly an option, although if that were to happen, i think that module would need to give extra defensive bonuses, or the dreads would need a hp buff. even sieged dreads get chewed through fairly quickly by supers. also, i still think it should be a focused thing. that would limit its use to only against other caps and supercaps, instead of basically just making it a super-heavy interdictor that can bubble up subcaps as well.i figure the main advantage of a capital dictor would be its mobility. you wouldn't need to move hictors and dictors into position and risk them getting caught and killed by the enemy support fleet, or even just random roamers, as long as you had a cyno in system. it makes it much easier to punish hotdrops, or small to medium capital attacks. it would also be a good tool to force an engagement, since once you start pointing down the caps and supercaps, the other side either has to cut their losses and give up, or escalate things."
"we're already more or less playing supercaps online at this point, and you want to make obsolete the only two classes of subcaps that have a role against them?"
"no.... sorry but i do not see the reason for more cap ships in a cap prolific 0.0get more hic's... you only need 1 to tie it down... but the more you have the harder it is to untie the trap.any propper fc will know that 1 alone isn't enough... they'd bring 4 to 6 or some such."
"this doesn't make hictors and dictors obsolete by any stretch of the imagination. they would still be extremely useful to any sub-capital fleet, be it a roaming gang, gatecamp, or a support fleet for capital ships. the capital warp jammer would be a focused weapon, this isn't a bubble ship. it would be useless in tackling sub-caps.hics and dics would still have a role against capitals as well. assuming you don't have a cyno in the system right away, you will need hictors and dictors to spring the trap and hold the supers and/or capital ships in place. then you bring in the capital dictors to tighten the noose, and a kill-team of caps/supercaps/sub-caps to make the kill. the problem right now is that only two ships have any kind of ability to tackle super-caps, and it is entirely possible for supers to kill these ships and weasel their way out of a sprung trap. all it does is add an extra line of security, and more of an incentive for supercarrier and titan pilots to be a little less reckless with their toys."
"this topic might be a bit controversial, but in a game that really doesn't afford safety to anyone, not even highsec, cloaked ships are untouchable. this is my proposal:- regular combat probes can't detect cloked ships. should be a new probe. t2 combat probes anyone? *if t2 probes are too much of a problem since we might need t2 probe launcher as well, sisters launcher and sisters combat probe will do.*- should atleast require astrometric rangefinding to v. i'm pretty sure those of you whole like to just afk cloaked in a system camping, might be opposed to this. this is a simple way to counter those afk'ers in a system, primarly in 0.0 where everyone is always on the lookout for neuts who might be scouting or just plain afk'ing to keep everyone on edge. we currently have some neuts around our space that are just cloaked and floating in space. been around for a few days tbh.if anyone has a better idea let me hear it."
"i think the system canner of a pos should be allowed to scan cloakable ships... that way, the cloak is still effective.. and the scanner poilot would have to be the one to leave the pos to go to the scanned out pilot... that way there is a give as well as a take from cloaking...even balance."
"maybe use it to buff black ops at the same time. have new probes and a new probe launcher for it that can only be fit to a black ops ship.that way you have to put a expensive ship at some risk to do it, will increase black ops bs use.also have the probes on overviews by default so if they are being scanned down the user will see them on d-scan long before the scanner can see him."
"it's not controversial.it's brain-dead."
"yes this is stupid. learn to read the forums before you make a new topic. i don't think you can go 2 pages without seeing this topic a few times."
"i have done the cloaky thing. marks tend to fit into 2 categories: 1) pvpers who rat in pvp ships just waiting for the opportunity to engage the cloak. 2) whiners who stay docked except with their station hugging bait domi.group 1 takes care of the situation themselves,group 2 is too soft for 0.0 and should stay close to concord. easy targets will always be farmed.asking for an easy fix cloak probe is a round about way of asking for a nerf of several ship types that demand significantly more skill than astro v.as to their being \"untouchable.\" a cloaked ship is harmless until it decloaks, then it is very touchable."
"i agree that you should be able to probe down cloakys, however, it should be very hard. it should take a lot of effort to probe down a stationary cloaked ship. it should take a lot less time to probe down a ship with a cov ops cloak due to how they can go into warp so fast while still cloaked (would be impossible to find them if it took a long time to probe them down.) also should be a seperate skill set, expensive, a long train, and many prereqs. should also need a specialized ship with specialized probes.edit: would also be worth some thought to make it possible to \"cloaky jam\" a system, similar to cyno jam. this will get rid of too many people staying cloaked in system for hours upon hours, it can get quite irritating."
"if it ain't broke.... don't bloody beat the damn thing to death with a stick to break it intentionally.seriously... get over yourselfs you cloaky whiners.it's just a bloody cloak. : o pit won't hurt you or make you die.it's the one who refuses to put his guard up that gets ganked."
"so you're saying it should be \"very hard\" to find a cloaked ship.. unless it's a ship designed to be cloaked all the time, then it should be easy, because they can warp cloaked. how does this make any sense?"
"it is not broken = no need to fix"
"u know who else is \"untouchable\"? everyone of u nullbears who docks just to protect themselves from 1 harmless afk pilot. if u can't handle 1 harmless afk pilot in 0.0, do yourself a favor and get out 'cause u're not entitled to 100% concord-level blob safety, especially in null sec so htfu and deal with it."
"the solutions to afk cloakers are simple.1. go somewhere else.2. stop ratting in officer fit carriers, downgrade to cheap bs or even bc and fly with a group.3. ignore them, they're afk.simples."
"simpler would be for cloaks to use fuel - preferably a substance which is contraband in empire."
"your theory is sound on paper. realistically speaking, players don't just log in to be on \"standby\" waiting for someone to ninja-loot their corpmate's level 4 hi-sec mission."
"tractor pulling? the strongest engine shall win."
"so? risk/reward is related to work/reward, if you work to protect your things then your reward will be higher."
"no your reward wont be higher because you have someone on standby, your reward will be much lower.fixed that for you, shooting someone in a pve ship is beyond ******ed on a level that matches ccps. until ccp really changes how pve works in eve it is just a horrible idea. only in wormholes you can kinda do it if you feel really lucky. and then your get friends idea, strangely the ninja salvager doesnt need them, but you do need them if you want to run a mission? which pretty much halves your income...how about do this after ccp makes pve a bit better, lets start by sleeper ai for all npcs, you might possibly see that they will alpha strike all ninja salvagers as a downside, i dont."
"your not forced to engage, stop acting like you are. either you can bring along buddies in pvp ships and get your salvage, you can try to engage a ninja salvager solo and most likely die, or you can just not engage them and suffer the loss of your wrecks. you have choices, people need to realize that just because they cant max their income doesent mean that it's a broken system. effort should scale with reward, dont you agree? it's not ccp's fault, pve should require certain ship types and pvp should require others. if you want to have maximum reward, your going to need to put in maximum effort. the fact is the choice still exists and while it may not be the most profitable to just leave your wrecks, its the safest. people are going to have to weigh safety vs risk on their own, it shouldn't be decided for them."
"would you like the loot moved automatically to your cargo? wouldn't that be easier? htfu"
"screw mission wrecks, they are literally a dime a dozen.- fight between x and y on a gate, - z warps to gate with alpha hardened tractor wielding salvage boat.- z starts tractoring all wrecks, checks for valuables while salvaging .. jumps out if threatened.no longer a few hundred thousand isk, but potentially hundreds of millions in faction gear.in short: if you want to steal, you can damn well arrange for your own getaway vehicle/plan. if you want freebies kill stuff yourself."
"what? this is the exact thing i am trying to promote. right now if theres a fight on a gate with 40+ wrecks, its gonna take a hell of a long time to get within 5km of each and salvage/loot. i honestly dont see your point, salvaging is supposed to be a mini profession and this would make it a viable mini profession. what is wrong with cleaning up the field after a big fight... whats wrong with getting hundreds of millions in faction gear? your tractoring(getting agro), putting yourself and ship at risk for a pretty giant reward. worst case your noctis is sitting on the ec-/tor gate, you still have agro and can be shot even if you jump. remember you agro entire corp's by tractoring, not just the individual. i cant tell, are you just trolling or full on ******ed?"
"wtb the \"easy\" button. loser."
"as the title suggests, this would, in my opinion, add an extra incentive to use the 'auction' contracts function. got a triple t2 trimarked bhaalgorn which you know is worth quite a lot, but unsure as to whether enough people will bid on it to meet the minimum cost?set a reserve.i'm sure this has been suggested before but let's go for it in the spirit of the recent contracts changes. all say 'aye'..."
"supporting this for great justice"
"what's the point of this? just use the start price, surely?"
"the point is is that it adds an extra dimension, and, perhaps excitment to the otherwise stolid contracts system. i mean, sure, you can just start the auction off from the 'reserve' price - but where's the fun in that?"
"it's actually an appeal to human nature. a low start price gets people bidding. once people start bidding, more people will, normally, bid. on the other hand, a starting price at or close to what the object is actually worth will discourage most potential bidders who view auctions as a way to get goods for less than retail. the reserve protects the seller while letting them take advantage of this little psychological idiosyncrasy of the human condition.supported."
"thank you for succintly outlining my thoughts and for your support :)"
"not supported. it just amounts to wasting buyers' time and attention, tying up their isk, because you're greedy. want a fast sell? set a low price. the contract system doesn't need additional exploitable complications for the sole purpose of stroking fat wallets of the greedy at the expense of everyone else."
"how does this have anything to do with greed? all that is being proposed here is to mirror the methods used by real-life auction websites, and the attendent excitement and anticipation that having a closely run auction provides. nothing has been mentioned about a fast sell; furthermore, how is this even exploitable? fine, as an earlier poster said, you can set the reserve price now as the minimum bid. how is that exploitable or even at the expense of anyone else.please, be more specific in your thoughts, rather quite general."
"use minimal bid. this is basically an attempt into deceiving bidders into locking their time and money into a bid, thinking the price is lower than what you are actually willing to sell for. eve does not need a \"feature\" designed purely to benefit one party by screwing another out of their time and money. the contract system should be less deceptive, not more."
"how is a reserve system screwing people out of their money? if their bids don't meet the reserve, their money is refunded after the auction...just as it does now."
"see below:you want deception with regard to the price at which you are willing to sell, for more profits for you, at the expense of everyone else, to be built into the auction system. use starter bid price."
"it's hardly deception if it says in big red letters 'reserve not met'...it should surely be as plain as day."
"how about i make a bid at below your starter price? you don't get to lock in other people isk and waste their time, if you're not actually willing to sell at the price you advertise. greed at its worst."
"wow...a lot of greed condemnation in this thread. suprising for eve but then again, a lot of faceless alts have posted here. surely, an auction doesn't have an advertised, fixed price that it will sell at. it therefore floats depending on how many people bid. with my proposal there is not a lot of real change, except that the bidding will start at whatever price the seller sets and not finish until the bidding at least matches (as opposed to just starting from a minimal sell price, as is the case now)."
"eve auctions take your money up front on bid, with the understanding that you will get the item unless a higher bid appears. this is money that you cannot use. you don't get to set a fake starter price, when all you want to do is lock in other people's money in order to make your auction look more lively."
"for reasons already mentioned, ccp won't implement this. one of their goals in creating the new contract system is to cut out unnecessary exploitable parts. removal of loan contracts is one such move. there is already start bid price. if it doesn't sell, it means it cost too much, and price should be lowered until it does sell. blame the market."
"i'll make this as short and sweet as i can. right now mailing lists have the ability to send out a welcome mail when someone joins the list. this welcome mail can be used to disseminate information that only needs to be given once.what i am proposing is to use this same functionality on corporate and alliance levels so leadership doesn't have to worry as much about the distribution of basic information. bulletins are great and all, but keeping a bunch of information that you just want someone to see when they first join is a waste of space, and the bulletins can usually be used for better things.additionally, a custom welcome mail is a lot more impressive and informative; especially when it comes addressed to you and sent by your ceo or alliance executor.these welcome mails should be sent out as follows:corporate level: when an individual joins a corp, they receive the custom welcome mail.alliance level: when an individual joins a corporation that is in an alliance, they receive the alliance welcome mail.thoughts, feedback?"
"approved.small but usefull change."
"the functionality is there if you join a mailing list, so you can use the feature currently, although you'd need to tell your new corp / alliance members to manually join... but having one auto-sent for new members would be a nice value-add, and *potentially* easy to implement, since similar features already exist in-game."
"...so that it shows up on the first post. it looks way better to have the op's support on the initial post, not hte second or third.get it sorted ccp!"
"ironically enough, supporting this proposal from the second post"
"it's generally assumed that the op supports his own proposal, so there really isn't a need for it. i don't oppose adding it though, but this is a total non-issue and it certainly isn't worthy of csm attention."
"it's hardly a total non-issue. the issue does exist and it's an annoying bug. why not change it?"
"so op's everywhere are... what... sitting down in front of their pc's and typing up proposals that they.. don't support?actually, truth be told, that would explain a lot about our forums. :ponder:"
"lol, perhaps they are...perhaps they are...this proposal is really more about tying up lose ends, rather than implementing a game-shattering change (i know and you know that there are for more important things to fix before this gets an eyeful; however, as an ocd-riddled leper, i will not rest until the op can support his own proposal in the first post!)"
"i don't know about you guys, but when i type up a new topic, i do see a check box allowing me to support the proposal that i'm posting. pretty sure the op is confused."
"simple really, why the heck can't we contract the pi goods in custom's offices to other players, or to corp?i could list all the multitude of benefits, or i could just point out that this is an mmo and we are supposed to work together to work smarter. your guys forgot to add this in and instead you have to haul to station or swap in a can in space - not feasible for alts on the same account since we can't log in at the same time."
"ps. can you increase the size of the custom's offices to 50k m3? the 25km3 only allows me to half-fill or half-empty the 5x 10k m3 launchpads on my planets. seems like an arbitrary limit since you can only put pi goods into the custom's offices in the first place. cheers."
"i don't think they forgot. i can see where there is definitely extra work involved to incorporate customs offices into the contract system.when you create a contract the item is removed from your station hangar. no problem.when the contract is accepted the item is placed in that persons hangar. this could easily result in the co hangar being over-filled, leading to people using the contract system as a way of avoiding the co size limitations.(i.e. exploit)because station hangars have no size restrictions the contract system will have to be modified to accommodate this special situation.that being said.... i would like to see this feature added."
"in my opinion, increase the capacity of the customs offices by alot, enable contracting to and from them, and allow importing/exporting while not in system.this is too lazy you say? it's precisely how alot of other manufacturing and industry in eve works, and no matter how well stocked your planet is, the same amount of hauling still needs be done, it simply won't be in such strict capacity-limit-induced intervals. this would give pi some of the freedom enjoyed by other industries in eve, which are actually capable of stockpiling materials if you have the isk to do so, while still requiring your planets to be managed on a regular basis."
"+1 for intelligent discourse and humanity, but -1 for scale and consideration. see my recent thread for a more reasonable (but no less daunting) endeavor."
"hello everyone.as the proud owner of an orca i can't help but scratch my head at why we can't simply re- or unpackage ships into and out of our ship maintainence bays. not only would it make logistics for mining ops much less of a pita, it'd also help out the pvp folks who might not want to have to fly or pod back to their base. to round it off it'd also make t3's quite a bit more viable, especially for wh op's, since you could restructure them in-space.now, i guess there is a good balance reason we can't do any of the above yet, so, i think to balance it out properly there should be a capital module that allows you to all of the above - at a hefty fittings cost of course."
"supported, just to get fights with nc fleets i have to be in a noob corp solo and in a t1 battlecruiser at the most. making your age unknown makes it easier to come by fights because people may assume your a nub"
"only showing the persons previous corps and not the associated dates or date of birth would probably result in more fights what with people not backing out when they get into a fight with someone older than them."
"spies everywhere!"
"also, while this opens new avenues for griefing mission runners, it effectively nerfs the profession of non-ninja salvaging, as fewer new players will be willing to respond to the \"free salvage\" posts expecting to get blown to hell or at least have their time wasted.this just makes game mechanics even more complicated, to the detriment of new players, and offers no real upside. if ninjas want to turn flashly they can always just steal loot."
"no it wouldn't there is already a mechanic in game to surrender ownership of wrecks all the non-aggro seeking salvagers would have to do is stick to salvaging blue wrecks.actually no it would simply make the aggression mechanic more consistent with the rest of the game. you take something that you didn't earn the person who actually did the work creating the opportunity gets the option to assert their ownership."
"yes, but effectively it's just another twist and turn of the rules that enables \"hey free salvage\" in local to translate to dead new players. \"lol you should have seen they weren't blue wrecks noob\" when the dude just read on the ivy league site that salvaging was a good way to make space money.i really see no upside to this proposed mechanic, aside from more opportunity to grief new players. that's pretty much the only demographic in the game i'm against griefing. unsurprising the highsec pvp crowd is rallying for this one. more sweet velator kills. seriously, what's the actual upside to this?"
"you pussies wouldn't shoot anyways, so why ask for it?"
"this seems to have fair support but no input from the csm as of yet. come on...this is a great idea."
"even if that is somehow true, where's the conflict? ccp wants to make a good game that people want to play and therefore pay for. csm wants ccp to make a good game that they want to play."
"ooooh, meta trolling, nifty. trolling me in order to lie and claim i'm trolling. how very edgy. of course, it'd be trivially easy show that i was wrong. ya know, if i was, and you weren't trolling."
"ccp has made it clear this will replace the original hangar view. if you were like me who tested cq on duality, you would understand that there is no difference in time to undocking or managing resources. i tested it with two clients and there was no problem as the ui stays exactly the same as well as performance. so please, cry more."
"most of us are big dumb supercap having babies so yeah we have to live with two+ clients as is. voices representing this viewpoint will be involved in this discussion."
"it really depends what ccp (not the players) wants the l1-l4 missions to be for. easy isk or 'epic story' of survival and smart fit.that decision is not easy, they could make ai harder than pvp very easily with a switch and low sec pirating would be just as profitable but then what about the economy for new players in empire?even level 5 missions are practically solo ( maybe two accounts same person though) can be done so if you're looking for adventure you have to join a corp that does low/null sec or wormhole stuff and deal with the drama."
"adding sleeper style ai to missions would be a massive balancing job. i would prefer it, but i can't see it happening anytime soon.if a mission level was done piecemeal, the probable outcome would be that they get added to people's \"always decline\" list because they would hurt isk/hour (or require effort).gallente would scream again because it would be a drone nerf (not insurmountable, but still a nerf)"
"please read the original post i will be doing a huge overhaul / update soon. i do apologize for the slowness but i have been working a lot as of late."
"i see its already posted but ill repost and provide a link to subject. request to add another old yet still relevant subject.drone implants. why arent they in game yet."
"making these easier to find so someone can add there support saying they want a given item back in the spot light would be nice.since something like engine trails may seem to be a back issue and a player may feel it is important and thus want to highlight it bumping these topics should be possible."
"supported"
"its called flogging a dead horse...because what are you doing years later?...yes flogging a dead horse...its dead..cant you see..sorry its my time of the month...ccp just dont listen to their community, never have and never will..so i just give up caring....tbh i dont even see why we both communicating with ccp at all.."
"definitely agree with akita t on this.there are already plenty of things for pilots to do in new eden without adding more and more unpolished stuff. thoroughly clean the foundations first before making additions that can always come along later.ps. whatever happened to the serpentis/syndicate/blood raider pirate epic arcs that were supposed to come out? yet another example of this problem.."
"with respect havent we heard this already about 100 times? and as anything changed....?? decisions come from the top, ceo and the board. if they wont change the rest wont. just seems to me eve is someones 'personal' project.ill do what i want when i want cos its my game. sort of thing.."
"/supportedstop that two-expansions-a-year madness. instead, dedicate one of them to \"fix the old stuff\"(tm).i'm 5 years into this game now - constantly playing, mind you - not suspending accounts in between. but there's still so much stuff in eve i have never ever tried, that it might easily keep me busy for the next couple of years. i have yet to visit my first wh, let alone do something in there. i've never tried invention. i've never build a pos. i've never flown an epic mission arc. i've never tried out fw etc.you already have way more stuff in your game than most of your competitors. so why keep adding and adding and adding and leave half-done stuff for years unfinished?in case you didn't get the memo: quantity does not trump quality. or, as a german proverb puts it, \"less is more.\"[edit]damn it, the preview steals your \"support\" tick ..."
"current balance issues from my point of view:- hybrids. they are just sad.- gallente ships. pretty much likewise. especially eos.- capital balance. supercarriers are op, dreads are crap. archon is also too good compared to other carriers.- active tanking is _rather_ marginal outside pve.- rig penalties. completely unbalanced.- drone balance. amarr light/medium/heavy drones are total crap; their sentries are fine, though.- black ops and eaf could use some boosting, angel ships some nerfing.- frigate/cruiser/battlecruiser tier system is outdated; it just leaves most ship hulls unused. augoror, anyone?- claw's locking range could use some boosting.- oneiros could use some love. all other logistics have a niche, oneiros doesn't really.- the new faction cruisers are rather unbalanced. compare navy augoror with navy exequror...- damps could use some looking at. was the original way of resolving them too calculation-intensive? currently, the higher the bonus is, the more effective additional bonuses are, which means that on non-absolutely-maxed hulls/skills/rigs they are way underwhelming. they used to be that the higher the original effectiveness, the less the additional bonuses mattered..."
"tracking disruptor it's a joke now. the optimal script is only usefull against amarr ( make the bonus on optimal and falloff).the tracking script don't works on medium autocannon (to much tracking).try to use the sentinel with 2 tracking disruptor againt a huricanne with 425 ...machariel is clearly overpower like dramiel.hybrid need love.to much tracking with the large autocannon and medium range ammo ( better than medium pulse laser ???)."
"someone here is a bit of a pessimist. guess who?"
"rails and blasters need a buff. don't think anyone is arguing too hard with you"
"amar assault frigs and destroyers need help as they can not perform many given roles ina fleet/small gang/solo fight.they are tackle and need to be able to fit a tackle mod and a propulsion mod to catch things. a single mid slot is simply fail in a pvp ship.the amar destroyer does not do enough dmg or magically tank better than it's co horts to offset this glaring lack. if it did 2x the damage of a thrasher then maybe it would have some sort of argument for not being able to tackle but as it is....it simply does nto perform any function.the same could be said of the retruibution. the lack of a mid slot so hampers these ships as to render them useless. even straight up giving them an extra slot would not overpower them. some changes are needed."
"armor tanks speed penalties are much to high.shield tankers are faster and more mobile to such a degree armor tanking is very much out of a flavor. reduce the penalty on armour plates"
"nighthawk needs some extreme attention. since this has been already discussed and approved by some previous csm, i will just link it:"
"this would be a huge mistake at those numbers. a 5 man crew in a couple hours would back the station up for a couple days. would be best to drop that down to around say 30minutes. enough to be use full but not have a small alliance backing it up for weeksi could live with that. i didn't really think the timeframe on the 10 hours through to be honest because i was more interested in illustrating that you don't get the refining done instantly."
"scammers will always scam. spies will spy and thieves will be thieves.which is why i am in favour of this proposal, wouldn't change much apart from maybe not seeing so many ******ed names in local."
"add me to the list of people wanting resize-able fonts. it's pointless to be able offset your ship/windows when dual screening if the font size makes you have to put all windows center screen to be able to read them."
"didn't bother reading all the pages, but ccp stated already that they have something in the works. when it's coming out though, i don't know. still, my thumb of support."
"yeah<U+FFFD>!!!!!!!!!!!"
"this link, from 02:44 to 02:55, should apply to small ships vs. super capitals. the only way to make that a reality without over buffing the small ships and screwing up their balance vs. other non-super capitals is for it to be impossible for super capitals to be able to lock onto non-capital ships.i am not advocating that this change should be the only one but it is definitely a right step.also, r.i.p. porkins"
"yes you should, or if that doesnt work they should be hard countered by another ship, like dreads. but then you would pretty much need to remove fighter bombers. that or make them fire aoe weapons against subcaps, which tbh could be quite interesting.but ships needs to be balanced on a per ship base, not per isk. otherwise there is never a reason not to bring a supercap, since they are just the best per pilot."
"dreadnoughts are well balanced because they have a specific role, they have to commit to a fight and can't just teleport out when things go bad, and because they're very vulnerable to subcapitals and hence require a support fleet. supercarriers have none of these attribute. they don't have a specific role, they don't need to commit to a fight and they're not exactly vulnerable to subcapitals. all three of these need changing.proposing new ships as a supercapital counter is absurd - the counter should be subcapitals. so to make them vulnerable to subcapitals, supercarriers should be able to launch fbs only - not fighters or drones - with fbs tweaked so that they're close to useless against bs and smaller, and are easier to kill, defining supercarriers' role as anti-capitals only. supercarriers should not be immune to normal disruptors/scramblers, and the other-ewar immunity might go too. the 15 min disappear-with-aggro-upon-logoff timer should be increased to an hour for supercapitals.making them commit to a fight is trickier. requiring some sort of siege mode to be active to be able to control fbs is a possibility. it wouldn't prevent movement, only warping or jumping. they could still receive rr. short cycle time, maybe as short as 2-3 mins, so they could gtfo semi-quickly, but not immediately. fbs would return automatically upon deactivation. this might have problems with lag though."
"battleships are only really vulnerable to them if they are stupid and go out alone. large smartbombs kill most frigs in one or two vollies, and if they don't, the battleships' drones tear them apart. frigates are usually just initial tackle, and are only expected to hold onto the bs until bigger ships with more tank can get there to tighten the noose and make sure the bs has no chance of escape.change \"battleships\" to supercarriers and \"large smartbombs\" to neuts and you have the same situation. hictors can hold a super down, but they die in droves to do it. only difference between the battleship and supercarrier examples is that, with a supercarrier, you have no larger type of tackling ship to come in and tighten the noose. there's always the risk that the super will burn down all of the hictors and slip out of the trap.that's only really talking about one super too. this issue gets exponetially worse the more supers there are. i mean, to hold down a 4-man supercarrier fleet, you'd need over 20 hictors to have any chance of catching them all, and you're probably going to lose a lot of them in the process...and then on top of those hictors, you need to assemble ships to actually do the dps to kill 4 supers. that's why hit and run attacks with supers are so hard to punish now. unless you know beforehand, or the super pilot does something stupid, its hard to organize a proper defense in time.with a dedicated capital interdictor vessel, you have less pilots forced to fly sacrificial hictors. it would let more people get into combat ships to help get dps on the supers and actually kill them. it would also lead to more supercarrier deaths, since they can't just burn down a capital dictor in a few seconds and run away."
"you forget that the one thing sc do best is killing capital ships damn fastso you will need to have one hell of a tank on those capital dictorselse they will just become like dreads (dinnertime :)"
"pretty much, yeah. i figured they would either be t2 dreadnoughts (imagine a phoenix with the onyx's color scheme :d ) or their own ship class. but yeah, they'd need a heavy tank to not die horribly like a dreadnought.to kind of balance the huge tank, they'd basically be useless against subcaps. their warp jammer would be a focused weapon, instead of a bubble. maybe only let them equip two capital guns (they wouldn't be siege capable though, so the damage would be terrible), or no guns at all. they aren't there for their damage, their one job to be a huge weight to tie around a capital or supercap's neck."
"i strongly suggest you guys read the entire thread. yes it is long but it is well worth it."
"/agreed sc need a nerf or every ship in eveneed a buff, make it happend."
"yesss, nerf hel asap.nerf hull, armor and fantastic shield tank;nerf fabulous dps wiht fighters and f.bomber;nerf that ridicolous amount of cap;less high, middle and low slots inmediatly;and specialy that unbeatable rep bonus (logistic role???????awesome...)pd: spetial thank to google-traducto....r"
"i completely support allowing access to local settings to augment the 50 on the server. being able to preview the sitting to be imported would help since the name of the fittings that were exported doesn't cut it."
"yes, also discussion thread here."
"how about header sorting like you find in the latest versions of ms office? that way the overview (and other windows) can be sorted by more than one criteria (for instance, i can sort the market first by # of jumps, then by lowest cost). right now you can only sort one column, and then only by ascending/descending."
"in fact i am way to lazy to write up all my ideas for improving the ui, so i will just say this:it needs some spicing up. and it needs it really, really bad.yes, i am advocating here for a new look! this is not win95 in space it is the freaking future, so make it cool and futuristic looking! and give us the ability to customize, customize, customize!since ccp won't let us modify the ui ourselves like that other mmo maybe it just would be possible for them to allow us to skin it?the ui is really crappy, so i am pretty much in favour with everything which will improve it but my biggest gripe with it actually is that i just can't stand looking at it!"
"if you can stop me having to click 10 times per invention job, and then another 8 times per manufacturing job - i will take back all the bad **** i said about you, and your mum, your dog, your sister, your wife and your alliance.(well ok, perhaps not your alliance)."
"user moddable uis..."
"totally supported."
"supported."
"so drones implants. i made this in about 10minutes. note no implant for sentry drone damage as sentry drones allready have a dmg rig and other drones dont. what you think:implant slot 6: hardwiring - tron 'deadeye' tgs10a tron drone hardwiring designed to enhance skill with light drones. grants a 1% bonus to light drone damage. marked versions: tgs10 (1%), tgs100 (3%), tgs1000 (5%)loyalty point versions: tgs11 (2%), tgs110 (4%), tgs1100 (6%)implant slot 7: hardwiring - tron 'deadeye' tgc10a tron drone hardwiring designed to enhance drone falloff range. grants a 1% bonus to drone falloff.marked versions: tgc10 (1%), tgc100 (3%), tgc1000 (5%)loyalty point versions: tgc11 (2%), tgc110 (4%), tgc1100 (6%)implant slot 7: hardwiring - eifyr and co. 'gunslinger' gz-0a eifyr and co. drone hardwiring designed to enchance drone tracking. grants 1% bonus to drone tracking speed.marked versions: gz-0 (1%), gz-1 (3%), gz-2 (5%)loyalty point versions: gz-0.5 (2%), gz-1,5 (4%), gz-2.5 (6%)implant slot 8: hardwiring - tron 'deadeye' tgm10a tron drone hardwiring designed to enhance skill with medium drones. grants a 1% bonus to medium drone damage.marked versions: tgm10 (1%), tgm100 (3%), tgm1000 (5%)loyalty point versions: tgm11 (2%), tgm110 (4%), tgm1100 (6%)implant slot 9: hardwiring - eifyr and co. 'gunslinger' gx-0a eifyr and co. drone hardwiring designed to enchance skill with all drones. grants 1% bonus to all drone damage.marked versions: gx-0 (1%), gx-1 (3%), gx-2 (5%)loyalty point versions: gx-0.5 (2%), gx-1,5 (4%), gx-2.5 (6%)implant slot 9: hardwiring - tron 'deadeye' tga10a tron drone hardwiring designed to enchance optimal range. grants 1% bonus to drone optimal range.marked versions: tga10 (1%), tga100 (3%), tga1000 (5%)loyalty point versions: tga11 (2%), tga110 (4%), tga1100 (6%)implant slot 10: hardwiring - tron 'deadeye' tgl10a tron drone hardwiring designed to enhance skill with heavy drones. grants a 1% bonus to heavy drone damage.marked versions: tgl10 (1%), tgl100 (3%), tgl1000 (5%)loyalty point versions: tgl11 (2%), tgl110 (4%), tgl1100 (6%)implant slot 10: hardwiring inherent implants 'highwall' ht-0a neural interface upgrade that boosts the pilot's skill at mining with drones. 1% bonus to mining yield from drones.marked versions: ht-0 (1%), ht-1 (3%), ht-2 (5%)loyalty point versions: ht-0.5 (2%), ht-1,5 (4%), ht-2.5 (6%)"
"yes yes and yes!!!!"
"i was going to refrain from posting in this thread despite how much it amuses me, but this quote is something i needed to comment on.eve online is primarily sold online. even in the united states. i've searched for a boxed copy of eve every time i've been at a store that sells pc games. i've done this every time i've been in these stores since i started playing eve back in march 2007. i've only come across an eve box twice. once at a gamestop where the employees didn't even know wtf it was, and once at fry's the other day where only a single copy of the game was on the shelf.an ao rating would only stop in-store. i'm pretty sure the majority of players in eve came to be through purchasing the game directly, online through the eve online website. as is proof by the multitude of **** sites, you can't dictate that an ao video game can't get sold on a website. it's companies like walmart that ban a product because of ratings, not the government. the government only requires ratings so people know what they are getting into when distributing the material to their children.-- with that said, i had no idea what futanari was until i read this thread, and then enjoyed the 7 pages of laughter from the very obvious trolls. on that note i wont actually provide my real opinion because i know ccp won't ever touch something taboo. it's the exact same reason they stopped allowing us to show cleavage in our character portraits, and only re-enabled that feature after they got bashed by the player base in these threads. i'm for sexuality, but i don't think ccp will implement it on this scale.... i do however require minmatar zero-g sex chambers be implemented."
"heck yeah. and make it so that my character can be a ladyboy, too.e: me being a guy having a female character kinda does that already but we def. need the ability to have all kinds of twisted, futuristic perverts.there are probably amarr slaverhound-furrys out there.while you're at it add some fetish masks to character creation."
"well i think this would be awesome, i can imagine seeing black-ops squads being added to standard fleets, that wold be fun and interesting!"
"just needs two adjustments to be 'great':1. give them a large ammo bay and allow refitting at them (ie. low m3 maintenance array).2. extended bridge/jump range."
"why not make them the only ships able to activate a jump bridge? they can use them to bridge in fleets with them. still allow use of the covert cyno for them too though. would boost their usefulness, and nerf jump bridges at the same time. do something like they are immobile for 10 minutes if they activate a bridge or something. your proposal is trying to make them into another command ship, which is not their intention. they are used to covertly move fleets. a good reason why they should be able to use bridges, but no other ship."
"so you support this proposal? if so please edit your post and tick the \"support this topic\" box. keep in mind that this proposal is just one of the multiple changes i want to be made. i want feedback on this specific component of the changes."
"i went beg seven last summer and took me a solid week, six hours a day in a cloaky tengu to get above minus two... halfway through day two i was about ready to blow my own brains out....trust me, the punishment is more than sufficient.... *shudders*(oh, and before the trolling over six hour days come in id just like to point out im an unemployed student... and it was summer. :d)"
"lol nothing but a 'we need more targets' whine thread.especially as your kb needs some serious loving..as all you seem to be killing is pods and noob ships..pathetic, if you aint good enough to fight in low sec get out. dont change something just cos you want easier targets.lets get more carebears ratting up their sec status in low sec so we have more easier targets in the belts...seriously....no"
"this is one of those ideas that i haven't even read before, and agree with. nice one mashie."
"you should require at least some piloting skills to kill a falcon instead of pressing one button.not supported ofc."
"this has bloody nothing to do with falcons, you muppet - if you'd read the op, you would've seen that the issue is about fof missiles targeting crap like lcos. now back under your bridge!"
"i am going to have to agree with you, 100m/hr per account is bad, but barely anyone farms that much. looking at my old corp wallet with a 15% tax, only myself and 1 other person pulled in over 20mil per tick, the vast majority were below 12-10mil per tick. i was in a machariel and the other was in a super. it takes a lot to reach that 100m/hr number skill wise and initial investment wise. anyway, i think that while having the relative safety of jammed 0.0, you still dont have concord watching your back which is always going to make it more risky than highsec. not to mention awoxers and spais. if you dont think ratting ships are lost, check out eve-kill its litered with them. sure they may be idiots but the fact still stands that they are not \"safe\". im not saying kill the anom nerf, i am saying nerf everything so that risk/reward means something again. most notably lvl 4's. make them extremely reliant on lp, reduce bounties a great deal and maybe add more salvage. also, dont offer them in highsec anymore. imo, lvl 4's and 5's should only be offered in lowsec. commence saying how bad of an idea that is and how millions of people are going to quit eve but lets face it, they wont. they will just switch to lvl 3's or join a lowsec pvp/pve corp. the ones that do leave never had much stake in the game anyway because making mountains of imaginary mony and not investing it into fun and tear extraction is pointless. this isnt \"forcing\" anyone to lowsec, its simply encouraging them by returning risk/reward to eve. you can still run lvl 3's in highsec and be safe, just you wont make as much."
"brilliant. absolutely compelling. and well thought out."
"my troll-detector just blew up."
"that's because unlike some ppl, i don't log onto alts to support a thread, like the pink megathron one. u're welcome to disagree--it's why u do so that matters, which is nothing more than \"this is stupid 'cause i said so so i'm gonna troll, troll and troll some more\" x 90011. point out exactly where i'm \"straw-manning\" unless u're too stupid to even know what it even means and r just talking out of your ass once again.2. keep in mind that i suicide gank their hulks while they're hiding from a fight on their -10 main so how does the 2 in bold even go together? oh wait, they don't. nice fail.but plz continue, i'd really love to hear some more."
"i would just like to thank everyone involved for substantially improving the end of my working day with this glorious thread."
"yw.and the tinfoil hat route, i knew it!"
"well, i was going to point out this method of bypassing this proposal, but it's already been done. the issue with arbitrary game mechanics is that they are far too easily exploitable, and the mmo rule of exploits is that if it can be exploited it will be exploited.at best it will be bypassed using some means (such as the disposable alts above), at worst it will be used to grief empire players.players, as human beings, find a way around things. as an example, a friend of mine lost a deadspace fit pve rattlesnake to pirates. thing is that those pirates had a 5.0 security status and were able to gank him (after an attempted ransom) in highsec without concord intervention.they did it by joining his empire based mission running corp, and corp members can freely attack and destroy each other's ships according to current rules (this is a good thing for pvp training of new members in affordable ships). admittedly there were some slack recruitment practices (thorough background checks recommended even if you have nothing to steal), but it illustrates that people will find a way around the rules if there is one. the more rules you add, the more you're restricting (and even exposing) the legitimate high security/new and learning players.and because i can pick and chose which of these proposals i respond to, i have the luxury of being able to address why i think something is a bad idea. i do however reflect the \"yeah, no\" sentiment."
"still no one has given a decent definition of what a 'griefer' war is."
"take jita and surrounding systems, for example. there is no lowsec 5 jumps from it, but there are many free manufacturing slots in the area. if i want to buy, for example, t1 modules in bulk to use them in t2 production, i will set up a buy order that covers 5 jumps with a minimum quantity of 50 to 100 t1 modules, depending on the module. i don't even want to undock a freighter for 1 or 2 modules per station. since i don't really care which modules will i get, because i have t2 bpcs for all ordered modules, but different modules require different t1 versions, i'll set up buy orders for all of them using margin trading skill to cover all possible orders. as soon as the isk gets depleted and orders start to bounce, i will have all t1 modules that i need.the problem is not direct profitability (you can just buy random numbers of t1 modules and work from there), but time. by using margin trading skill, i always get the maximum amount of items for the minimum amount of time, which enables me to be competitive on the market and make profit faster.just because there are people who were too lazy to get familiar with descriptions of only 13 trade skills, but are willing to throw billions on the market anyway, doesn't mean that all of us playing this game don't know what we are doing. of course there are some people who profit from mt scams, but they are only profiting on those who forget the #1 rule of eve: if it's too good to be true, it's probably a scam.btw. it's like saying that corporation recruitment should be banned because there are some corporations that will just take all your stuff and gank you."
"my thought on the matter, is if you are being a legitimate trader, other than mass amounts of minerals - what reason would you have to place a minimum quantity on a buy order for something like guns?i could see making an exception for minerals and ores, but allowing someone to post a buy order with minimum quantities on stuff like guns and other multi-million or even hundred million isk mods and ships... is just asking for the exploit of this.hell, admittedly if i didn't have the guns in my cargohold from a stockpile, i would have fallen for that scam. why? because theres not a way to make sure it can be fulfilled other than having the required quantity and trying."
"can you, please, read just one post above yours? thanks."
"dude, 5 bucks and a week training for each character till margin trading level 4 is but a small price to pay for unlimited isk.in fact people would even get around that 5 bucks buy using a fraction of the ill-gotten isk to purchase a plex.seriously people, think this through! under no circumstances whatsoever should margin trading be able to get a character into the negative!"
"this... want!!"
"have you noticed that when the chronicle's slacked off, so did any plot or story in the news feed? anyone thats been playing since the release of incursion has missed out on one of the best parts of eve online. the back story. of course it is interesting to hear about player interaction. i, like the rest of you, always enjoy reading about massive scams, massive scams that back fire, 'x' number of super carriers and titans killed in 'y' system with 'z' number of players involved but there is no feeling to those subjects. i laugh when i hear about some poor fool getting ganked in his officer fit kronos, but something about reading houses of the holy that really turns my stomach and makes one think about what other darkness could possibly lurk on those planets that we fly past everyday. so many wonderful stories left to go untold. anyone who doubts me has not read the end of the world series or methods of torture - the gallentehelp me a old book worm out csm!samuelk"
"what's the use of a \"self destruct\" nuke if you get alpha from 10 artillery battleships? seriously, tho. while this idea has some theoretical potential when it comes to ganker tears, it's pretty much pointless and probably a waste of dev time."
"i am a firm believer in this tactic, id even go a sterp further and have some very obvious way in iconography or visual that shows your hauling something that could backfire on a gank. all i hear from gankers is carebears need to learn risk vs reward even though they are the worst transgressors picking on harmless carebears and blowing up some of the most defenseless ships in eve for some of the highest rewards, if that isnt a risk/reward loophole or exploit i dont know what is.i myself am trying to engage the community to maybe work halfway between carebears and gankers in my own recent thread"
"green brackets for assisting!? yes!"
"supported!also this. just kidding of course"
"swapping between alts is painfull and the log out option is no diffrent from the exit function other than it restarts eve.the log out button should drop you to your character page. this would be a great and should be simple to do."
"seems this topic touches a nerve with some. i wonder who? anyway, i'm a 0.0 pilot, i'm not flying a faction hulk and satation huggin either. there is absolutely nothing one measly bomb can do to any of my ships. yeah if the ship decloaks then he's dead, but i want to pod his a$$ just as well when he's cloaked, just for the fact that he's not scouting for a fleet or anything for that matter, he's just been in the system for over 4 days just there 24/7, really? if you're going to hover cloaked there waiting for an easy kill, then you need to htfu. you can camp a gate, w/e i'm fine with that, but just being a dumbass hovering in space cloaked should make you a target like anyone else.just yesterday while i was grabbing some fuel for my pos this lame brain bomber pilot launches a bomb at my macks, he knows he cant insta pop them because he's done the same thing before. like any other sane person here, i like my cloak, i've done scouting and blew thru systems as well with it but i have not sat in a system aimlessly doing nothing but waiting for days to find the squishy target to get an insta pop. our system is busy, we dont stop for a cloaky neut, we mine, run plex, etc. but he doesnt go for those ships cause he cant insta pop. so yeah, i wouldn't mind having a way to scan down any dumba$$ that decides to sit in a system for days on end. dont assume everyone posting is some carebear or noob that wants concord saving their asses. i personally dont want ccp saving anyone and specially those that stay cloaked in a system for days on end.ok thats out of the way. let the flaming continue"
"now thats an idea, maybe cloaky ships should just have a fuel bay for the cloak to work. have a dedicated fuel bay for it. for example, if the fuel bay is full then the cloak should work (for the sake of keeping this simple) for 2hrs. fine you wanna fly around undetected, fine, but if you sit in a system afk, expect to decloak in 2 hrs.just a thought."
"sick dude, try making a meaningful post..."
"not supported.pants on head ******ed proposal is pants on head ******ed. also quite obvious giant ninja salvager buff."
"you people are so dumb, it's not and \"obvious giant ninja salvager buff\" it literally is a giant ninja salvager buff. that was never hidden. maybe offering some reasons why it would be bad would help to sway people in your direction rafia. calling my proposal \"pants on the head ******ed\" doesent do much for your argument."
"supported for the simple reason that it is pants-on-head-******ed that you can't tractor any wreck (or any can for that matter).doesn't make sense that a wreck is somehow magically glued into space because someone else shot down the npc.don't care about ninja salvagers vs carebears though, so don't you people try to drag me into that argument."
"i've already pointed out why it is a bad idea. furb killer also recently pointed out why it is a bad idea.i have already told you how this change would break the game in heavy favor for the ninja salvagers and your response was \"so?\". you're not interested in balance. you're interested in breaking the game to your favor."
"you clearly have not done much pew or you'd know that wreck 'belongs' to the person who lost it (ex. i kill you, wreck 'belongs' to you). tractoring said wreck with your scheme would give salvager aggro to the side that is probably losing as they are shedding ships -> going unnoticed to actual threat -> free stuff = make your own damn wrecks.that is unless you want it to give gcc .. now that i could enjoy on a daily basis"
"i see the pro's and con's of the plan.. i would be in favor of this as long as they added agro for actually just salvaging the yellow wrecks."
"+1 - tractoring a wreck would make you red to the owner.this would fix wh space ninja salvaging as well!"
"i was speaking to someone else in that quote, your post brought up a valid argument, it can be used for the sole purpose of grief, but that doesn't mean that we should make all ships no-clip and dissalow bumping. or make it so that people cant enter your mission on the basis that they might grief you. its the same as looting wrecks... there is still technically an owner but no magic space glue holding it in place."
"pretty self explanatory. why the need to rescan down signatures you've already found? this is for cosmic signatures only, ship signatures can remain variable."
"why can't you bookmark what you find?"
"i would like to see more use of dreadnoughts and carriers / capital ship pve. it would be nice to have that sort of option/game venue available for a even more diverse pve gameplay.perhaps missions that would require 1-5 players in capital ships, or other combat sites similar.i think it would add a new angle of gameplay for those who like pve.perhaps there can be a new high security space region where a mass incursion is taking place that requires capital ship use to interdict the incursion."
"it's called go to an 0.0 incursion.seriously... is this supposed to be a joke?"
"pve players don't like excessive risks though, since those hurt their isk/hour. they aren't going to be willing to go into nullsec or lowsec to run missions in a capital ship. they'll just keep running them in their marauders and faction-fit bs's. carriers and dreadnoughts are pvp vessels. some people run sanctums in carriers, but that's hardly their primary fuction. if you want to spend 2 billion isk on a mission boat, just buy a marauder."
"shoulda waited a week to see the flames in f+d before you threw all this oil soaked wood in the fires of the assembly hall.wow, that's my daily allowance of metaphor, all gone. see what you just did?"
"you've never done a c6 wormhole site have you?"
"lulz, someone with no idea how sov null... or incursions work.it's not just \"some people.\" if you run sanctums in anything other than a 1500-1850 dps ratting carrier, you're doing it wrong, and are doing your alliance a disservice by hogging sanctums, thus denying them to those that can blitz competently. at any given moment, there are far more carriers shooting rats than triaging. pvp is not their \"primary function.\" as for dreads, they're not used in either pvp or pve those days."
"enjoy your awoxing!"
"i don't think it is necessary, but here are some thoughts anyway, both for and against:having a reserve may be considered comparable to margin trading in the scams it may enable.isn't the bidding increment based on the start price? having a low start price, but high reserve would allow smaller increases.should the isk only be taken from the bidder if it exceeds the reserve? this seems a bit clunky and would push towards the reserve amount being visible on the contract."
"thank you for your reasoned and thoughtful insights, even if you didn't support the proposal. i can only wish that everyone who posted here was as thoughtful as you"
"there is nothing thoughtful about economic pvp. eve does not need some convoluted scheme added to a contract system that works just fine as is, for the benefit of seller at the expense of buyer, literally.you, the seller, want to get more isk, by taking advantage of this scheme. if your idea works, someone will have to pay more isk. your gain is their loss."
"sounds to me that all you want to do is to protect the buyer at the seller's expense."
"i'd be wildly in favor if their offices would be made available - their stuff can go into storage."
"in favour to a point.you have to remember alot of corps are holding corps of alliances. that are waiting to be resurrected ;) or have history that dont want to be ended.if you close the corp you kill the alliance.i think perhaps ccp send a automated message asking if the corp should be closed, if no response the rinse repeat up to 3 times. still no response, then remove."
"this is a solution in search of a problem, not supported."
"so we have assembly hall - to bring items to csm attention.and we have features and ideasseems to me its just the same thing..we have just random (and not very important) items being posted in assembly hall.personally assembly hall should be about serious issues only, not random can i change the font size, or whatever..with all these non non serious requests, you might as well just get rid of fai"
"isn't fai for developing ideas before they come in here?"
"not sure m8, but it defo isnt working like that..seems fai is completely bi passed"
"f&i is very useful for developing a fledgling idea to something worthy of actually implementing. if you have a simple idea/change that you want to be seen by devs and altered, you're propably also better off just posting it in f&i. devs have admitted of reading that section and given reasons why they avoid commenting on the ideas, so just because they won't post there often doesn't mean no one is reading them.assembly hall is more for gaging the level of support some idea has and trying to get priority for your ideas, although it's used to present ideas that people think are ready to be considered for implementation. so the two do overlap, and i don't see anything wrong with that, but still have unique roles they fill, that can't all be reduced to just one or the other."
"i have a nasty habit of salvaging after almost every mission so i tend to acquire a large amount of goods. so what i propose is to implement a way to mass sell your items in station. all i am looking for is a system like the one where you can select multiple items with a check in the box when you create a contract, once you have selected all the items you sell and all that bulk disappears and you get one fat payout instead of a sore clicky finger, and to get around that whole nobody at this station wants your crap thing just have the system skip those items like it does now if it is damaged or needs repackaging."
"yeah i know the feature is there already, and i in fact love it and use it for it's exact purpose. i however don't think you should say to a new member, \"by the way join this mailing list to get your welcome mail with all the information you'll need to be successful in our group.\" i'd like to be able to include the information in the initial welcome mail when joining the corp/alliance so you don't have to rely on recruiters remembering to distribute the information manually to every single member, which as many people in the large groups in eve know... information can easily be forgotten to be mentioned.a corporate and alliance level custom welcome mail would solve this issue, allowing the basic information to be shared quickly, easily and uniformly through all new recruits."
"while you are at this, might as well add motd for corp and alliance channels"
"i like."
"agreed.there is absolutely no reason why we can't custom tailor a welcome message for incoming members just like it does when it informs an ceo when someone leaves.srsly... its needed.you have my thumb sir."
"improvement to user-friendliness?never gonna happen.."
"i have some idea and proposal for eve. (already sorry about my english, it's not my first language). - taxe ( make the possibility to put some corporate taxe on all transaction). - standing import / export xml standing for corporation or alliance - sov and anomaly/ signature. increase the number of signature with the player presence. - drone region / make bounty on stop ore loot - some npc / region will become true 0.0 - moon mining / rewamp - artillery - ew - ship fitting - blaster - supercarrier / titan - invention - covetor[taxe] now, the income from corporation or alliance come from bounty, moon, donation or internal taxe. but it's very difficult for ceo to have a good politics about taxe.but it's really difficult to have a good repartition about taxe. my idea about that, it's to have the possibility to put a taxe on market transactions.[standing import / export xml] the new system of standing is a nightmare, if you would like to make some nrds. that would be great if now we have the possibility to import and export by xml the standing corporation or alliance.[sov and anomaly] the main idea will be to make some difference between system where they are nobody and system with a lot of player. the main idea will be activity in the system.activity in the system :[low activity]number of signature and anomaly will be decrease.lost of sovereignty.structure will be less harder to destroy (tcu, ihub).sbu time onlining shorter [medium activity]same then now[high activity]number of signature increase and anomaly.the structure will be more harder to destroy (tcu, ihub).sbu time onlining longer.if you have a station agent began to come inside.why make that. first now, a lot of system are completly empty and it's to easy for big alliance to keep them.( it's to easy with money more difficult with activity to keep 2 ou 3 area).the upgrade of signature will be on number of npc destroy ( good idea for bots). if you make that with activity it's more difficult for bots to make money (less activity --> less signature or lost sov).if they are nobody in the system that will be more easy to capture them.[drone region]stop ore loot and make bounty[some npc / region will become true 0.0]other ring, gw will becomme true 0.0[moon mining]put new signature with the possibility to mine moon rawmake the moon mining dynamic and good repartition of the raw in eve[artillery]they need some adjustement. the ammunition bonus on the artillery is good but not on autocannon, now there are to much tracking with autocannon ( some large auto cannon have the same tracking then medium pulse laser...). remove the bonus on autocannon but keep then on arty. [ew]role play will be caldari against gallente and amarr against minmatarr.the ew amarr is completly stupid now. tracking disruptor doesn't work on minmatar with new ammunition. change the script reduce optimale to reduce falloff ( reduce the optimal is good when you fight amarr). now the best amarr ew is against amarr ... ( neutralizer and tracking disruptor).[ship fitting]now more and more ship of all race put arty or autocannon. that have no sens.[blaster]increase the optimal *2 and falloff * 2now it's impossible to use them in pvp or really difficult."
"[supercarrier]remove the possibility to put capital remote. when you launch your fighter bomber. you are automatically in siege mode for 5 minutes. decrease by 30% the hp of this ship.decrease the capa regeneration by 30 %for titan and supercarrieragro timer 15m to 30 minutes before delog[invention]base when you have success -4 to 0 ( if ccp don't would like remove the bpo t2) in the game perhaps decrease the impact of this bpo.[covetor]pre-requis one skill from 5 to 4. now the difference between the covetor and the hulk is three days ???"
"and i'm pretty sure that you don't know what you're talking about. try making a new topic in assembly hall, ok? now select the 'check here if you want to give your support to the idea/discussion going on' checkbox before you post the op. got that? now press post topic. do you see your support to your own topic?no, i'm not confused."
"well so far i have seen a lot of people reply to this post that have no clue about wh logistics.then there were a few with good ideas, that i can tell live in wh space.for all of you thinking i was talking about turning wh space into the typical normal sov system of null sec new eden. you just don't have a clue. we would be happy with the suggestions of a few to just fix pos mechanics. all we wanted in a station should be able to be done in a pos. repackage, chewing down scrap metals, building more pos mods. etc. to those that whine about being able to mine moons in wh space.. you need to stop and think about it a bit. those mins would not be able to be mined with zero risk. every second you spend in wh space you are at risk. please get a clue before you reply to a post. there is no way in hell to keep 50 large death stars fed in a wh. in closing thanks to those that had ideas to add or work off mine or others. to the angry null sec dwellers. i understand your ****ed that ccp nerff the hell out of null with the true sec stuff. not my fault and direct your anger to the ones that deserve it. not flame because your ****ed.fly safe everyone"
"welcome to eve. may your stay here be fruitful."
"as much as i hate the look of pos, the management side has to be sorted before the aesthetic."
"hi rek! we'll be addressing this directly \"soon\" in the form of a proposal for consideration."
"i've always thought that the sec levels of systems should fluctuate, over time, based upon the number of npc kills in that system. more npc kills = true sec increasing. less npc kills = true sec decreasing.only problems are the lines between high, low, and null sec. i'm cool with allowing systems to flip between high/low and low/null, but there are some important implications that would have to be considered (systems like jita that have no npc? concord response in player sov systems? etc)"
"i have an idea that is sort of like yours. truesec can fluctuate, but the static sec status of a system remains static. motsu for instance could remain a 0.9 system, it's just that it would be 9.5 usually in comparison to one of those added-in tutorial systems (i.e henebene, couster, clacille) usually staying at a 8.6 or around there."
"odd, because i just listened to the fireside chat that was really 'the mittens show' and barely any of those topics were discussed at all. interesting that you now propose 'those topics' will be discussed with ccp at your next summit. i might go so far as to believe you might say 'hey, we've got a lot of requests from the player base' but it is more likely to consist of wholly one-sided inaccuracies in favor of nullsec alliances."
"i'm only hostile when the csm says one thing but does another, flames everyone who ever came before them as '******ed' and acts like the only important changes to the game are ones the entire nullsec community has been wanting discussed with ccp. but so far everything i've read and heard has but one primary focus: making nullsec better than it already is (in contrast to the rest of new eden). ** prove me wrong and i'll stfu. **"
"juggernaut class capital shipclass tech ii dreadnaughtchaos:in greek cosmology, chaos was a primordial state of matter from which the cosmos and the other gods emerged. for hesiod and the early greek olympian myth (8th century bc), chaos was the \"vast and dark\" void from which nyx emergedthe empires seeing an increased usage of capital ships more specifically super carriers which slice threw other capital ships have commissioned a beast of a ship called the juggernaut. the juggernaut lives up to its name featuring the remote repair killing capital neutralizer and nosforatu, and enough hitpoints to effectively tank a doomsday device... the empires have also achieved a new level in excellence in their new siege drives and jump drives. the siege drive utilizes enhanced tech recently retrieved from expeditions into worm hole space that effectively cuts in half the siege modules activation time. furthermore a new beefier jump drive has been installed in the juggernaut that lets it activate its jump drive with less capacitor. but all this new gear comes at a price and the engineers thought best that the sensor department could be cut in half resulting in a lowered sensor strength for all juggernauts.developer: duvolle labsduvolle labs manufactures sturdy ships with a good mix of offensive and defensive capabilities. since the company is one of new edens foremost manufacturers of particle blasters, its ships tend to favor turrets and thus have somewhat higher power output than normal.hull: morosrole bonus:ship only needs 60% cap to jumpsiege moduel duration reduced 50% and consumption amount reduced 50%can use capital nuets and noscan fit tech ii siege moduel(tech ii siege mod is the same as the regular siege mod but provides a bonus to range and effectiveness for capital nos and nuets... think of oppisite to carrier in triage)dreadnaught ship bonus:5% to cap hybrid turret damage per lev20% to drone hp/damage per levjuggernaut ship bonus:5% to cap hybrid turret damage per lev10% to armor amount per levsensor strength 22 magnometric7 low slots5 mid slots6 high slots (4 gun 2 utility)the ship would have enough ehp to atleast tank 1 ddd - maybe two if he goes all crazy with officer gear the idea for the ship is a beefier dread...this one does more damage has better tank...can use a capital nuet to make carrier rr a nightmareplus the siege mod only lasts 5 min so you can get out in a hurry with a lower cap level if you have to bail..."
"a few things i think should be done:1) sc's need a better defined role. currently they are logi, super dreads and even tacklers. that needs to end. i would like to see them returned to their original logistics role. thus i think fb's should be deleted from the game, sc's given their triage mod back and more appropriate bonuses to go with that. they were too weak originally, so i'm definitely not suggesting they fully revert to what they were. but they should never have been made dps ships. instead they should be much tankier carriers (both ehp and active tank) and rr better.2) dramiel needs a nerf, it's not just a little bit faster than the second fastest ship, it's a lot faster. the dram can be the fastest but i'd limit that to 100-200m/s faster, not 2km/s faster. it also needs a dps nerf. removing the drone bay would do this effectively.3) bo's need added range (6ly with max skills would be good), reduced fuel usage for covert jump portal and a rethinking of ship bonuses and base stats. either they are combat ships or they aren't. the stats and bonuses must match. currently the redeemer has combat ship bonuses but it's tank is so nerfed to hell compared to the t1 armageddon that it's foolish to go anywhere near a fight with it. and it's considered the best of them for direct combat.4) the cruor lacks the powergrid to fit both neuts and guns. the value of small neuts without a range bonus is also highly questionable. as if that wasn't enough, every other faction frigate has more mid/low slots than it. it's slow with poor agility, poor tank, low dps and largely ineffective ew.5) the afk empires need to end. this largely revolves around moon goo. with fixed moon resources in well documented places, it is absolutely impossible for any new entity to get their hands on these highly sought after resources. it also ensures a fixed supply and that those who already have these moons never have to worry about running them dry and having to find new ones. moons either need to have varying resources based on mining practices or moon mining needs to be eliminated with those resources going to belts or exploration sites.6) there is too much emphasis on blob warfare. bringing more should have drawbacks. whether it be los issues, stacking penalties on dps, added aoe damage or any of a number of other possibilities. i don't care what but something must be done.7) any ship with 1 midslot is broken8) legion's covert ops subsystem is broken9) tengu's ecm subsystems are broken10) proteus's drone subsystem is broken11) blasters need a buff, i suggest an across the board buff of 25% to falloff and a 10% increase in raw damage. short ranged but deadly should be their role, right now they are just short ranged.12) dreads, umm, lol. if sc's get sent back to their original super sized triage carrier role, then reduce siege cycle time and fuel usage by 1/2. if sc's are kept as dps ships, dreads need to have their damage/tank without a siege mod increased to what it is with. this change would include the deletion of the siege mod from game."
"ok so here is the idea:there are planets in eve... some have people living on them...some have crazy artefacts on them...so...give systems in 0.0 that have good true sec bonuses to the system specifically for industry...like:there is a large population of workers on planet 3 due to this reprocessing ratios and moon processing rates are more efficient...or:there is an ancient artefact on planet 2 this is a remnant of one of the original gigantic colony ships that came threw the wormhole... scientists in the system have been developing ways to reverse engineer its technology and as a result all capital ships in system are built at an increased rate...there could be all kinds of bonuses that would encourage alliances to 'set up shop' in null sec...plus this would make certain systems really desirable and create more conflict for control over that space as a result..."
"pos permissions are pretty unworkable if more than one player is using the same pos as a base.theft is a huge problem from poses, lacking some manner of keeping track of the items in the hangars.t3 pilots cannot refit fully at poses.shield-tanked ships have to wait a long time when attempting to sortie from a pos.edit also, tearing down a pos tends to run into bugs regarding ammunition getting stuck inside the guns, making the tower impossible to recover without gm input."
"i have 10 different rifter fits that i use currently. if you don't believe me check my battleclinic page....50 total is obviously not enough."
"supported."
"drone ui improvements.specifically: the ability to hotkey the launch of a specific subset of the drones in a ship's bay. we can already separate drones into groups but still must navigate a dropdown menu to use these groups.specifically: the ability to determine the damage status of drones that are inside the ship's bay.specficially: the ability to add drone functions (launch/attack/recover) as clickable buttons on the hud like all the other weaponsystems.specifically: the removal of those silly \"mine\" and \"mine repeatedly\" dropdown commands in favor of having mining drones recognize the \"engage target\" hotkey when the target in question is an asteroid, and mine repeatedly by default."
"if that could be fixed, i would buy a case of beer for each dev responsible. this is possibly one of the most annoying ui problems right now."
"i'll keep this fairly short as the title mostly explains the issue. currently, the api can track ingame market transactions, and has as such given rise to programs such as evehq, eve commander and a million others, to allow budding tycoons to track their sales from outside the game.not so with contracts :(ccp, isn't it time that contracts traders like us were given the same opportunity? make contracts data viewable through the api!thanks for your support/comments."
"supporting for great justice."
"agreed."
"how about some level of pi feedback while we're at it too? might be a bit tricky to format, but should be possible."
"what is bad about my idea?"
"came expecting a long rant about how mean people are mean, left pleasantly surprised. finally a good idea to boost low-sec.edit to add:hilariously poorly thought out rebuttal, there. why would a \"carebear\" need to rat up sec status? this proposal only affects highsec gankers and the people who already live in lowsec, and judging by all the supports here, the latter group largely agrees with this proposal. pity the poor highsec gankers. . .they may suffer a day of risk in their eve life."
"prolly bout 30m sp... was only minnie cruiser 5, but still hurt like hell. couldn't do anything but station-spin my vagabond for a while... and that's no fun; they're fugly buggers!sigh... cant win..."
"hahahah, lookit you reachin' up the ladder like a champ. i could dance around you like a cherub and be all like 'ratatatatat' and then maybe be like 'hyoooooo~~~!!!!' and you'd be in the ownzone fast as lightning. you don't even know. you don't even know. how high do you even need to make these badposts.anyway, this thread was sort of helpful. sort of. thanks for your input duders. i'll take what i can out of this and report back."
"bump.i approve of this idea.while not nearly as experienced as other pilots in this thread, i have been engaging dramiels recently with fits specifically designed to beat them. even then, the only hope is that the other pilot doesn't know how to properly fly the ship. a good pilot just disengages if he starts to lose.falloff bonus + a tracking bonus + superior speed is the main issue in my opinion (echoing some of the other comments in this thread).nerf at least some of these and dramiels would have a weakness that can be exploited."
"that's too bad u can't carebear in 100% safety but then again, high sec isn't supposed to be safe, is it?1. 2. so u missed the point as well. u can still pirate all u want and your example included pirates that took the time and effort to rat up their sec, which they'll still be able to do what they want to under these changes."
"doing it without the skill is a legitimate scam; using the skill it's an unbeatable scam that functions based on game mechanics. there is no click vs. click player contest, the game just removes the order because their is no isk. that makes it an exploit, though it be the result of 'legal' game mechanics. the problem is most people have no idea they are up against a game mechanic, until they train the skill and fail to have the isk balance required for a buy order, resulting in its cancellation. until that happens, or you consider a dozen possibilities after getting scammed, you don't really know. people reading this thread might understand it of course, though i've noticed a few seem to have completely missed the point and reason behind the threads posting.to clarify, (not for you shandir as it's obvious you already know), the function of the scam.1. perfectly legit trader,( who will never be identified due to orders being impossible to fill, resulting in no transactions), transfers all his isk to an alt or to his corp wallet, and puts up a (100% margin trading) buy order for useless item #1. perhaps even multiple times. useless item in this case is nearly non-existant on market, with perhaps a few sell orders from same trader at same isk value, plus a bit, as the buy order. buy order is very high and unrealistic for this item.2. trader transfers majority of useless item #1, in bulk, to useless biomassable alt along with a few items of moderate value that are in extremely low demand, such as t2 small drone rig's or capital construction components. trader then uses useless alt to create an item exchange contract in the fashion of a firesale, for somewhat less than half, or more, the sale value of useless item #1 to his useless buy order for approximately the same number of useless item #1 items. contract is posted to jita local.3. trader may at this point enter second useless alt, and spam jita local with comments about how the contract issuer is losing isk, and may even argue with himself for effect using the first useless alt.4. the buyer. some poor guy in local who may realize it's a scam, (he most likely does if he has the isk to cover it), but doesn't realize he's not up against someones twitch reflexes, or a bunch of guys in voice chat running the scam. he is most unaware, and set full up against the wall of an unknown game mechanic, unbeatable and fully in favor of even an afk or offline scammer. 5. buyer, probably aware of the scam and thinking he can beat it, sets up his menus, windows, and boxes so he can click-click-click, and sell those useless items as fast as possible, then he waits. gives it a few minutes, maybe even five to ten, before preparing himself to duel the unseen adversary, then proceeds to do the inevitable, which spells out certain doom for him. he accepts the contract. the buyer in this case could in fact wait ten days to fill the buy order, or he could fill it within less than a second of accepting the contract. he is relying on an opponent having human responses, giving in to inattention, or just being to slow, yet he is up against an adversary which suffers from none of these deficits and for whom time is not a factor. there can only be one answer, and that is a resounding, \"no! impossible, the isk is not there.\" but he didn't know that. it is not in the rules, or really mentioned anywhere. shame."
"give us some kind of npc shipping company and we're good to go. otherwise setting minimum qty on items makes sure you don't need to fly to 60 different stations in 20 different systems to pick up one 75mm gatling in each of it.oh, and while we're at it: make transporting ships (industrials, transporters, freighters and jump freighters) invulnerable to other players in high sec (except if at war). because until the goods arrive at their destination(s), the traders/industrialists take the risk of the loss. and no one will compensate them.as you might have guessed already: not supported.[edit]spelling ..."
"don't mess with a legit skill, the amount of stupid ideas in this thread is overwhelming.if someone is dumb enough to get scammed on one thing, they are stupid to get scammed on any number of things. the problem is stupid players.failing all else if you want to make isk, never deal in anything weird. basic commonitys are what people buy and sell a lot off. minerals, pos fuels, and planet materials. failing this, don't try to make isk from 'good deals' when you are too stupid to avoid scams, so something simpler like missioning, or mining and selling all refined materials at market hubs. npc's don't scam, try making isk with them."
"support, remove it unless it's fixed.my problem with margin trading is not the existence of the scam itself, but a lesser known borderline exploit that's associated with it that pretty much breaks the skill's functionality. so margin trading is supposed to allow you to reduce the amount of money you have stuck in escrow by a certain amount right ? say you only put 56% in escrow for an order at level 2?well the issue is that for any level of the skill what you can do is sell to your own orders (on an alt) and so remove all your remaining money from the escrow so you're left with an order backed by nothing and with the money you took out you can make another order and so on forever (minus transaction fees). you can force the game to lend you effectively unlimited credit.i'm pretty sure that's not what the skill was supposed to do !(if it's not clear, what i mean is suppose you create an order with 24% escrow, you sell that much worth of stuff to the order from your alt, now your alt has the escrow money and your main has the items. you give the items to the alt again and the money to the main, set up a new order, repeat as many times as you like...)how is it connected to the scam ? well obviously that allows scammers to create many more scam orders than they would if they were all actually backed by even 24%. and it makes sure nobody can sell to the order even at a much lower price (that might fall within the escrow amount)."
"i have this as a proposal"
"agreed! eve seems to be losing its colour. the entire narrative consists of sov grind here and sov grind there. ramp up the chronicles and enrich the game for all of us."
"you missed the dev blog and the big announcement that they were going on hiatus, didn't you?"
"lots of other ideas going around, some good, some bad, sorry to start a new thread, but this is such a simple fix i didnt want i smothered by the other ideas on the board atm.fix is simple:1) turn the button into a warp disruption tower - points any ships on grid with infini point warp disruptor, neuts and webs any ship farther than 100km from button. (locks ships into plex until it is captured by one side or another - does not affect pods) upon arriving on grid, all ships are placed 12km from the button in a random direction. timers only run if at least one ship is within 5km of the button.add to this the other ideas of:2) broadcast/show plexes with running timers on map/facwar page.and the controversial:3) delete the faction rats from the plexes - instead, perhaps make defensive plexers immune to warp disruption from tower? neuts and web still apply if distance>100km.and finally, and more controversially, something i think would be interesting:4) limit entry to max 5 per side in plex at any time- i.e. pirates and neutral rr can camp the gates but not enter plex, and either team is capped at max 5 ships in plex at once. if ships are destroyed, they can be reinforced in plex by allies waiting at the gate. opposing forces both waiting at the same gate may have issues to settle before they can help in the plex either this, or a simple hard cap limit of 5 per plex, no reinforcing.major unrestricted plexes have no gate so are not subject to this. discuss/flame ;)(edit: updated)"
"interesting but i have concerns. what about pods? if you're in a plex do you automatically get pod killed if you lose? cause that would suck. i'd never visit a plex again if that were the case. it also poses a problem for the defender. the defender is always at a disadvantage ship wise since the attacker can take a look at what's there via d-scanner and then decide what ships are best to attack with. the inability to warp out would make these plex's complete death traps for the defender.another problem is that some of the best fights i've had in plex's were against random neutrals trying to gank me, not the opposing militia. this is especially true in the minor plex's where you'll get random high sec guys and solo pirates just roaming around looking for frigate fights. i've always been all to happy to give them to them in the minor plex's because i know their falcon alt can't come in and screw up the fun.as you can imagine, i can't really support any part of your proposal. on the surface they do seem like good ideas i'll admit. but with a little more thought and experience i think they'd make things a whole lot worse. i have been in the amarr/minmatar militia for the past year and a half though i recently left it out of boredom."
"you have been waging the plex war for how long?there are tons of threads on this topic, most recent from a 'known' fw participant is fw: the discussion.i suggest you read up on the quite literally hundreds of threads on the topic as few of us trench rats have the stamina to keep shooting down near identical ideas every week ."
"pods will not be warp disrupted, so you can leave as your ship is destroyed.defenders have the disadvantage of being scannable before engagement, but they also have the advantage of setting up at their chosen range from warp in.and, yes, ive read hundreds of posts on fw revamping, ive been part of fw since the first day, and im quite happy to add this post to the end of whatever thread is current.i just think all the different ideas can get lost, so i started a specific thread, for a specific idea i.e. warp disrupting buttons, because it struck me as an interesting proposition, and i havent seen it mentioned before.feel free to use brain to assess the idea, if it needs shooting down then do so, i believe thats what forums are for ;)"
"all that would lead to is the birth of the plex-watching alt, and the new ever so exploity plex-filling trial account alts. players who aren't metagaming in this way would plex even less than they currently do, because eve players are absolutely terrified of losing their ships."
"logic of this idea is so wrong that it makes me cry.ccp has already made this game almost fool proof. what we need least here is more safety networks for pvp game.loot is already as bad as it is. there is no need making it even worse. if you can always just push \"i decline your pvp\" button in eve it becomes pretty boring and fast. just like lets say wow.i can see wow mechanics coming into eve pretty fast, though. just think about spacepriests."
"this idea is really simple but should help alleviate the huge massive blobfest that is coalitions.move regions farther apart. subcaps will be unaffected, and regular capitals cannot span whole regions in a single jump anymore. this would make it a giant pain in the ass to move capitals.....but would make the universe much \"larger\" in a sense. this kind of supports the theory that alliances should find it easy to flex their might within their own regions, but moving to other regions should be somewhat harder. you can still move to the region next to you with relative ease, but moving any farther than that becomes exponentially harder.no ships are nerfed, and no roles adversely affected. jump bridges would be very useful in the same region....but loose their value as you try to travel from region to region. roaming is still fun, jfs become a larger pain in the ass (but still very useful). its not a fix-all solution, there will always be \"blobs\". but hopefully if this were to occur smaller alliances would feel a bit farther away from the large alliances that would just steamroll them usually."
"identify all margin trading orders in market window. highlight with yellow instead of green, and tag with mt to identify as a margin trading order. everybody wins."
"why on earth would you do this? the only people this really helps are people too moronic to spot scams"
"just about everybody used margin trading. lots legit things be flagged green or whatever color.don't trade in stupid weird commonties (or things you don't use), petition ccp to add that to the tutorial along with scammers, and avoiding jita local chat."
"or just play sensibly"
"after you train up margin trading, you always use it.... there's no option not to use it. hench, i really don't think this will help much..."
"considering this is an alternative to removing it entirely, you might want to think a little before you answer with such obvious disdain. currently, margin trading allows players to post an unbeatable scam, due to it being available as a false buy order placer on the market. most players are unaware that character's cannot actually receive negative isk balances as a result of using margin trading. this results in the obvious assumption they are up against a human, rather than a game mechanic, which will result in even unknowing seasoned players, taking a risk with an obvious scam. personally i had to fall to this scam 3 times, before i broke it down, and figured out how it worked, and that the culprit was the margin trading skill. the first time was when i was less than 6 months into the game, and the second two were just recently, after more than two years of playing. i have never fallen for any other scam in eve online, not even spies or scammers stealing from a corp i have run. so why did i fall for this?the answer is simple. because i was not aware that the scam was supported by a game mechanic involving 1 skill out of ~388 to choose from. sure, anyone who delves deeply into trading might know of it, but most players are unlikely to have ever ventured accross it. this makes it possibly the best scam out there, and also the most easily perpetrated without consequence. by highlighting the margin tradng orders yellow, you make player's who might otherwise be subject to this scam think, (now why is the order highlighted yellow?), without actually affecting the way the margin trading skills works. this is a win-win scenario for all but the scammers, and even for them it's not bound to keep people from taking the chance at some point. people fall for scams in jita everyday, a lot of them far less legitimate looking than this one. why do i say legitimate looking? not because nobody can figure out it's a scam, but because it looks like a beatable scam, and we all know people would love to take the scammers for their isk once in awhile, just for being what they are, parasites.i lost ~3.8 billion to margin trading scams in two contracts just recently. if it's that easy, it's too easy."
"in my understanding of mmos, logout never takes you back to character select as a security measure.it should not completely close the client however."
"it has been requested many times already and ccp always said no.still supported!"
"yes this is serious, hear me out first. the null sec sov mechanics have always been terribly boring. in the old days it was pos spam. setting it up, fueling it and obviously killing it and putting up your own was tedious at best. the current system only magnifies it by requiring huge fleets to repeatedly blast glorified rocks for hours on end. no one likes it so why do we have it? i propose removing the entire sov mechanic in favor a simpler and more dynamic system.rather than any sort of formal sov, you gain it by simply controlling the space. much like tracts of low sec have very clear owners despite the owner's name not being displayed anywhere on the map or the top left of the screen. it's your space because you said so and you have the firepower to back it up!so what about system upgrades and pos structures that require sov? not a damn thing changes. they stay in game just as they are except that sov is no longer required to anchor and online them. yes, that means i could fly into nc space, drop a tower and cyno jam any system i damn well please (this opens the possibility of multiple parties cyno jamming a single system). obviously said pos would be vaporized overnight but i could do it if i really wanted to. and i think that's a good mechanic.i would keep the current restrictions as well however, such as those modules being forbidden in npc null as well as low sec. outposts would become nothing more than destructible objects, much like a pos. i would make them even more pos like too by allowing the owners to add defenses to them. they would have restricted pg and cpu just like any other pos, they are just much, much bigger. if for whatever reason ccp is unable to make them destructible, then just have them go \"vulnerable\" once all defenses are destroyed and the outpost itself hits structure damage. at which point it could be claimed by a new entity. it would need to be repaired however, it wouldn't instantly go to 100% health again."
"everyone with sov enjoys the benefits from sov, everyone dealing with sov dislikes the mechanics of sov.i do hope the op is a troll because this is a terribad idea."
"yeah i'm sure the current csm will be all over this"
"i think your idea needs to be thought out.... sov costs, a fairly major isk sink in the eve economy disappear overnight.... how will this alter the eve economy?upgrades at ihubs.... can anyone install them into the ihub? can multiple ihubs be installed in the same system? which one is active? do alliances/corps maintain control of an ihub after its anchored? who pays for the upkeep costs associated with upgraded ihubs? people can suddenly install jb's and cynojamms in any system, without ascertaining a certain sov/strategic index? .........while i agree the sov system needs some work, i think your idea is off-the-cuff and ill-advised. people like bbbiiigggg battles... that's why they are working on time dilation! that's why they have tcu's and stations and ihub's with reinforcement timers. at the same time, sov should about much more than gathering 500 people to a system for an alarm clock battle. it should depend more on a sustained activity/presence within the system. unfortunately, this latter suggestion is what's lacking from the current sov conquest mechanics."
"obviously, many thousands of players do enjoy the sov system."
"obviously, many thousands of players enjoy black screen on loading grid.sov structures suck, they need rid of the structures and allow a system that rewards the people that remain present in the system to hold the system. i'll champion a system based on pvp kills although i can tolerate one that has mixed metrics of pvp/pve."
"tl;drallow players to create their own missions that would be added to the cue of agent missions that are given out to other players.long versionfor a long time now, players have been able to create mini missions with the contract system, however, this is only for hauling stuff. it was also mentioned at the fanfest before last that in incarna it would be possible to set up similar mini-missions in bars and such. this proposal goes beyond that to allow players to create full combat missions.currently devs can create missions via some back office process. if this proposal were implemented, that process would be automated if it is not already, and placed behind a simple interface for the player to order a mission. an example:player decides to create a mission. she locates a faction she has enough standing with (if one can get a lvl 4 mission, one can create one), and talks to an agent who can create missions. the agent asks some questions, or gives a form to fill out with the following basic information.amount of isk to spend hiring ships/crews, etc: this isk will become the bounty on the pirates.number and type of ships: this could be a pool of points set by the amount of isk, so if you wanted to have a lvl 4 mission with nothing but frigates in it, you could (performance issues aside). or this could be automated to automatically chose a listing of ship types that match the amount of isk you put in.location of mission: this could be a listing of the various enemies of the faction you are hiring, for instance, minmatar factions would let you put missions in amarr and caldari space, or maybe angel space.mission text: if you want your fleet to say anything to the capsuleer taking them on. (optional and could be a multiple choice to avoid issues with profanity).once those choices are made, the mission is added to the list of missions for the enemy faction that was chosen. if the mission is completed by a pilot for one of those factions, then they get the isk put into the mission. however, if a mission is declined or failed, the player who created the mission gets the isk back, plus some extra, maybe 10 percent, to show that the mission was successful for him.optional ideas include:having missions expire after a set time if they do not get put into rotation.if a particular player character orders a lot of missions against a particular faction, that faction could place a bounty or somehow make that player known as a supporter of the enemy faction.later expansion to include setting up mining operations or bases as seen in some missions where even if the mission is completed, if the player completing it did not destroy the structure, the player who created it will still get some isk or other reward back, or she could elect to pour more isk into it to keep it going. possibly this could be a new source for bpcs of faction gear or something else.pros:mixes up missionscreates an isk sink with some chance for reward. low chance for gaming system (only way to make money would be to put a mission in some region, and then camp the entire region to make sure no one ran that mission).could be used in all areas of spacecons:unknown levels of programming neededsubmitted for the consideration of the community"
"why should we do for free what we pay ccp to do"
"except for that little (read: huge) difference in not having to worry about being put in hull with one volley because one can just jump out, most wrecks can be reached from jump range .. perhaps you would like tractoring to add a pvp aggression timer as well? somehow i doubt it as that would mean it no longer caters to the risk averse."
"nothing is stopping you from from poping them on the other side."
"ill make myself more clear.every signature has a unique id, which changes after dt each day. all i propose is the id remains the same for the signature over its lifetime. you still have to find the sig and bmk it. just means the next day when theres a new sig, that u know wats new instead of having to drop probes to 'cancel' your bmked sigs becuase their id has changed."
"let's see here... nullsec, nullsec, nullsec... oh, nullsec, more nullsec, don't know d*ck about empire, nullsec, nullsec, nullsec.i see csm6 has continued to focus on things that will make the game fun for them and gingerly stepped over all the things that the player base has supported for years.as for ccp using csm6 as a marketing ploy for pushing 'time dilation' as a massively player supported initiative which csm6 has made their primary focus... well, at least someone has made mittens and gang their *****. kudos ccp.now, having said all that... anyone else still concerned that the only things being represented by csm6 are things that will benefit nullsec citizens more than anyone else?i mean, seriously... more farms in null? the billions of isk and fleet of titans you jackoffs build from the bots you run getting to be too little for you? oh wait - or is it the slam you are all taking from sreegs putting the cork on the kettle? bahaha. more farms in null. yeah, that's the problem with eve... not enough isk being fielded to bot running alliances. wtf.cap/super cap balancing... let me guess, you don't like the sub-cap nerf, right? you think you really ought to be able to sit in a 1.0 empire space with some kind of uber god mode type ship and just f*ck everybody in the *ss, right? that would be uber fun wouldn't it? ffs.ship iteration (or, how to make sub-cap ships more like cap ships for our nullsec battles). about the only thing that would trickle down to empire.so, mittens gets to yap and yap and yap and yap about, frankly, some of the most inane topics and how he plans to improve csm/ccp relations (bahahahaha, yer funny) and push macro topics to ccp because developers don't like to be told about the small stuff. wow, you are so f*cking far off from the truth it isn't even funny. developers are *all about the details*. but you wouldn't know that, would you mittens? you've made your claim to fame in a mmorpg. hahaha.anyway, this is just more dribble from the nullsec alliances who feel they should pretty much all have gm powers and own everything and everybody else in the game. if any of them had any real interest in the evolution of the game they'd be pushing for iteration on things that matter to everybody, not just the sh*t that pains them in nullsec and would give them even more advantage than they already have.nope, still not impressed with csm6. my votes didn't go to mittens to begin with - they went to someone i actually thought might be able to communicate with ccp. though that person is on the csm, i've not heard *one gd word* from them since. not in forums, not in the fireside chat - nowhere. i guess mittens was busy slurping down a bunch of hard on's to keep everyone else at bay. an entire group of sell outs. screw you goons and all you other useless and clueless twits on the csm. your efforts will be laudable and wholly unimplemented. same as csm5, csm4, etc. you're nothing more than a marketing and mouth piece for ccp, so just get over yourselves. macro topics hahaha... i believe when we developers meet people like you in real life, we label you either 'f*cking lazy' or 'clueless'. in csm6's case, i'll go with clueless."
"yes, lots of people are, in all these threads.notably, none of them seems to have won election."
"too obvious. 2/10(1 for effort, 1 for at least pretending to have listened to the talk)"
"lol. spoken like a nullsec alt. it pains you folks when someone intelligent enough to read between the lines and see what the csm is really all about sez something, doesn't it? lol."
"as an industrialist/manufacturer/miner etc i would like some help in competing with the older established players. many aspects of the game have been nerfed to slow down the generation of isk. i can inderstand and even accept this as ccp is a business like many others and needs to show a profit. what i cant understand though is why t2 bpo's have never been changed in any of the patches to give them limited runs and then expire. this would then give all players the same opportunity to sell t2 items. i propose that ccp either nerfs these bpo's, makes them available to all or allows the research of copies."
"what an original, fresh, issue. we should discuss this in this new thread, since there are no other places to do this."
"did i detect sarcasm? sry but i couldn't find a relevant thread, would you be so kind as to link one please if that was the case?"
"sec status change of system will in no way affect how fun a mission is, only the rewards from the agent.i'd like to see fewer ships overall in missions but deadlier. and also, if ships \"spawn\", have them warp in instead of appearing from thin air.beltrats can do this, why not missionrats?more escort-missions and the like where we have to defend a ship from destruction or some structure. maybe even introduce group play into it. say if npcs come in from multiple directions and we can't cover all directions (fast enough). bring purpose to missions instead of the only purpose being getting out alive.you could have \"defend station\", \"attack station\" type of gameplay, mixed up with npcs trying to get you etc etc.make group-play rewarding. right now when you mission with someone, the reward is even lower. to promote groupplay, the reward has to go the other way around. i understand that is a problem, especially with consideration to alts. and the fact that missions get easier. introduce a dynamic \"control\". check the ships on grid, depending on shipclass and how many, have certain npcs spawn in addition to those who are already there.a frig on grid? spawn npc frigsa cruiser on grid? spawn more cruisers.obviosly, the frig on grid should get the aggro from the frig spawn etc.this way everyone on the team gets a challenge, something to do that is \"fitted\" to them.one way to deal with increased rewards (read: bounties) is to make bounty rewards scale.1 additional ship on grid? 10% more isk from bounties. increase it by 10% for every additional ship to a certain limit, let's say 6 ships? after that, no increase. and if npcs are deadlier, bringing alts in shuttles, mining ships etc should make them think otherwise. basically, make the missions so hostile that this easy exploitation is out of the question. if you don't shoot at a ship, you don't count (so no cloakies either)."
"plz stop spammin my inbox"
"ccp needs to seriously consider what akita is saying. all the shiny new stuff sounds cool for a few months till people play it long enough to realize its all broken and they leave. eve needs better standers than that."
"supported!"
"supported. how about a ui overhaul, pos overhaul, etc before the admittedly cool but of questionable value incarna?"
"quality > quantity any day."
"supported"
"considering the reality of a frigate colliding at velocity with a sub-cap like an orca or a freighter would result in the fiery death of all occupants of the frigate and the frigate itself, without much damage to the sub-cap, this is at least a step in the right direction."
"tbh, realistically it would probally result in the fiery death of all involved. a frigate traveling at 2,000 m/s is carrying alot more energy-to-mass then even the most powerful of modern guns, with alot more mass. a frigate impacting at that speed (many tons of steel/etc) would be more then capable of immense amounts of destruction, and even in planetary terms would be able to 'remove' a large city.im such a nerd. ='("
"it's a distinct possibility. frigates aren't exactly small craft like fighter jets, and even one of those could cause significant damage to a battleship if it struck it. possibly even sink it.yes, i support this thread too. keep em' coming csm i might even have something to say on the subject. it is a large area though, and i can't say as i have come to any solid resolutions regarding it that i would post here just yet."
"id like to be able to add much more to a pos then currently and the cpu and power grid would just follow in fuel usedalso labs suck since i have to click threw each one to find the lowest qued slot, make them just one long list that can made longer or shorter based on how many upgrades the unit has."
"no its not you alone. log in and out, changes in status, who made changes & when, inventory control, inventory limits (for those who have to store shuttles by the ****ing dozens!) inventory management... the list is endless...pos gunners get a drop down: availiable turrets to control..."
"while i agree with your first point, i don't feel the same about the second. the only thing that would make the corp security potential better, is if station container's could actually be locked in a hangar, rather than pulled from corp hangar to players, re-passworded, looted, and returned.back to the op.positioning pos structures is absolute crap. zooming out, zooming in, changing view from ship to pos, back to ship after moving a little, back to pos so you can move your ship to a better vantage point, back to ship so you can see the f'n structure. bluntly, it sucks. the alternative: just dropping the modules any old where, then anchoring them in a long, (we're talking hours and hours over days), dull, repetative process. guy i quoted. his idea is good, if we have to have anchoring, onlining timers and such. could be built into a new ui too, with plenty of other improvements.waiting 2 minutes, to do a repetition of what i mentioned above, and again another few minutes after that, or even six: that will drive a man absolutely mad, and make him lose all reason. doing it for hours, on hours, on hours, will make him want to hunt down and kill/torture whoever made him do it, in a bad way. j/k but sorta not...and people wonder why pvp is so popular among the nullsec crowd and wormholer's, lowsec peoples..they just want to kill something any time they have anything to do with pos maintanence it's really, really bad. please fix it."
"it's trauma. my last experience with setting up a pos, was testing moon mining on sisi. i never got to the testing stage.modules all have distances at which they can be from another, based on the size of their model and bounding box. this sucks.every time you get a new pos modules that has to work with other pos modules, you have to experiment and find out which models to place first, so you can have everything within the right distance to allow for reactions and all the rest. a moon harvester cannot be placed first, to allow the placement of a silo or complex reactor. incidently, i found out the silo can be placed anywhere, possibly even the other side of the pos. somebody obviously tried to alleviate the pain at some point, by just making it completely free-roaming in that one instance.no matter which way you set up a pos, with all it's structures, there are at least ten people who will want it changed, with exception to the guns. why the guns? because you can't bounce off them on warp in, and they don't generally get in your way, flying about the pos.guns is kind of a catch all for defensive modules in this case, with exception to shield hardeners.ammo. how i hate putting ammunition in all the guns. freaking unbelievable how much of a drag this is. in practice, you get an industrial with an mwd or ab and bookmark all the turret points for warp in, then bounce off moons to save time. it still takes forever, and you have do double and triple check the turrets to see if you missed one. with the industrials agility, you're still drifting like a log in a lake. ideally, you have a covert op's transport for this, to make things even easier. try it in a badger ii.pos modules and guns take space, lots of it. no easy fix for that one.onlining and offlining defenses and reactors/alternative structures. like it isn't bad enough the first time, now every time a threat becomes viable, you have to offline assembly arrays and research lab's to online what is really only half of a reasonable defense for the pos. you can't have both. it's either labs, reactors and other similar facilities, or defensive modules to give your pos a half decent combat advantage.this is why reinforcement timers exist.yes, it takes forever to kill a pos, but once the guns are gone who cares.there is so much wrong with these things: fuel storage and requirements, pg and cpu limitations, structure placement, ammunition, etc...speaking of ammunition. placing guns and defensive modules outside the shields: you can't be so far away, and yet you can't be so close. i think the margin for effective placement is between 5-6 km from the shields, more or less, and you get a message that you can't place themodule there. then, you have to wait for the delay timer to continue with what you were doing.last but not least: size. how exactly do you fit a moros in a ship maintanence array anyhow? stations are bad enough, but these things are almost smaller than a tengu."
"honestly fuel pellets are imo another waste of my already limited time. fuel for a pos should be a backup only incase your anchorable solar collector unit gets destroyed. i mean really. we're in space, usually in close proximity to a sun. is there a reason for not utilizing that, other than another f***ing isk sink?that and what the others above me have said about existing problems other than fuel. and also, if i want a deathstar station, i should be able to get a focused fire cpu module for it for extra iskies/more grid and cpu. and fix the pw for shields to be optional (utilized if wanted, but defaults to positive standing set by the owner corp to allow access). it really is a system with a lot of potential, if it could be worked on."
"i support this!remove all jump bridge modules and cyno jammer modules !"
"security upgrades, ui & anchoring fixes and hacking offline pos's.what wouldn't be to love from this?"
"supported"
"er, yes, thanks. i think.if the other three supercarriers were nerfed down to the level of the hel there'd probably be much less of a problem."
"the real problem is the sov. based in massive hp structures easy to deploy and timers. all they do necessary blobs of the supercapitals to make war in a reasonable time of game.you can nerf sc -the only efficient solution against titans blobs-, but the real solution is a new sov. system based in a solar occupation for players that really live 0.0. -perhaps a new pi with sov. effects- and not for nomads players in supercaps."
"i'd just like to point out that dreadnaughts can effectively take down sov structures as well. dreads can easily put out 6-7k dps which is not too far behind a supercarrier. why don't dominion sov structures have shields like pos? simply adding a shield to online ihubs and tcus and sbus would make dreadnoughts a necessary part of sovereignty.vocal players wanted a way for relatively small groups to be able to significantly pose a threat to large alliances. they got their answer, with supercarriers. of course, they were thinking of having a gang of 20 hacs instead. but lets face it, there is a fundamental reason why 100 cruisers is better than 20 cruisers that will not change.the greatest problem with supercarriers lies most in that they can complete nearly all warfare objectives in the game. that's a greater problem than being overpowered because of having too much capacitor or too large of a drone bay or too many slots. if ccp wishes to fulfill the desires of the roving band style players to disrupt alliances and simultaneously eliminate the ubiquitous nature of supercarriers, then they should consider putting forcefields on sovereignty structures."
"well, these are more or less the same thing. two of the reasons that supercarriers are able to carry out nearly any objective is because they have an abundance of utility slots, and a primary weapon system (drones) which effectively never runs out and can near-instantly switch between types as battlefield circumstances develop. every other shiptype in the game needs to make decisions at the fitting screen, and are punished if they decide incorrectly. supercarriers just shrug, activate the correct utility module from their omni-fit and pop out a different type of drone cloud."
"you really cares on sc<U+FFFD>drones in a fleetbattle? its imposible try to deploy waves of drones in massive engangements. you<U+FFFD>ll be very lucky if you can deploy fbs and make regulars attacks in a laggystyle sc-fight. in real fights, if you are not in a sc, you<U+FFFD>ll be worried about your targeting time with multiples ecm burts than a wave off drones.i insist, change sov-mecs and nobody cares abouts sc, fbs, sbus and all that expensive toys."
"in their great wisdom of nerfdom, again ccp has once again screwed up an otherwise great feature. now, for me it's pencil and paper if i want to save fittings in a notebook.come on ccp, enough of these screwups of yours!!"
"problem with blackops is that they were made fleetops ships instead of blackops.bringing 20 guys along doesn't sound like very much a black op.give blob ***gots their own fleetops ship class and make one real blackops ship class and we can start working out a balance there."
"so you want a solopwnmobile? perhaps you should write up a proposal on that.why shouldn't ccp make the black ops a \"fleet ops\" ship as you call it?"
"i'd suggest restricting the fleet bonuses to ships capable of using black ops portals - that way, there's a greatly reduced risk of people replacing titans or command ships with black ops. it would also allow the bonuses to be stronger and possibly tailored more specifically to the needs of black ops fleets."
"opyou screwed up and got burned. stop whining and suck-it-upthe only change needs to be to your focus and organization."
"1. i would disagree that it would only \"put in real consequences of being -10 by limiting their time in low sec\". i can forsee many more effects that this proposal would have, mostly exploits to grief the unsuspecting.2. no, i got the point, and my example was about game mechanics being bypassed. people are far more intelligent than the rules and system in the game and they will find a way around them. the pirates will find a way around isk transfers so it won't have any real effect on them, but it will still provide means to grief for the underhanded bastards that are so prevalent in eve.thing is, the pirates who are -10 are open and honest about being pirates and accept the consequences of their actions (getting the low sec status), whereas empire griefers very much aren't which is evidenced by the dodging of game rules and consequences. what this proposal would do is hinder those 'honest' pirates and will in no way effect those who bypass the system anyway. why bother those who take the consequences of being pirates more than those who do the crimes, but dodge the time?"
"1. name one such way that i haven't already addressed yet because unless u got one, that point is invalid.2. see #1 and even if they do, they would have to put in even more time and effort in circumventing the rules than ratting the sec back up, which goes back to limiting their time in low sec, giving others a better chance to roam and survive there. or they can pvp in 0.0. i'm sure your alliance would like more fights. 3. how r \"empire griefers\" even \"griefing\" and yet -10s r \"honest\"? how do they \"dodge\" game rules while -10s don't? don't know how u even came up with that. because the consequence is the time and if that's dodged then there's no consequences at all. derp."
"i'm sorry, but this thread is well good and dead. whatever anyone says here, it's been pointed out a dozen times that there are ways around it. let's move on."
"despite my earlier comments regarding this thread, i do believe the idea itself has merit.here's why:it add's more depth to the game. eve is about player interaction and actions having consequences.no, a market order shouldn't affect a players ecurity status based on who buys or sells as a result of it. this doesn't mean direct trades and donations shouldn't impact security status. they do in real life.don't believe me. police officers take note of who is dealing with who and who people make aquaintance with. communities notice who you involve yourself with and judge you as a result of it. everything you do has a consequence, no matter what your motives might be.this idea is perfectly legitimate and makes sense; there is no reason it should be discarded so easily. given csm's position, it likely will be, but i'll argue it all the same.here's a big problem with eve: alt's.alt's really actually suck, because they allow players to do things that they normally would have to do with their main, and suffer consequence or be recognized for.scammingcorp theftgankingtrollingpropagandapiratingspyingetc...when you can do it all yourself, without ever losing face, what need have you of others?i'm not saying alt's should be removed from the game. they serve their purpose after all, and not a single mmo, (save astro empires if that qualifies), that i can think of doesn't have them. other mmo's generally don't suffer so badly from the inclusion of them however.really, is taking a security hit for dealing with disreputable sorts, (even your own alt's), so bad? it's this kind of pathetic chicanery that makes eve suck in a lot of ways. pirates, scammers, gankers, and the rest all argue against anything that might make griefing or scamming result in any kind of consequence for them, even the slightest of things like a hit to their security status.what do we get? trolls, flamers and the sort making stupid comments in threads, like this, that suggest the game should include anything that acts in opposition of them, or their actions.bankrolling alt's is completely irrelevent as far as i'm concerned. the idea is to have consequence.how about reward?set up a system of floating rewards to players who maintain positive security status. individuals who do not resort to piracy, or assisting piracy or what would be considered illegal activities, should get a secuity increase every downtime. this should have meaning in the game.i fully support that high security status players, should be able to attack and destroy ships of low security status players in highsec without concord response, and with no penalty to their security status. no gate or station gun response in high or low. they are elevated individuals.and why not?players who transport contraband, (by concord standards rather than faction), that should be scanned by any concord agent, should receive a security status penalty. they should not be concorded, but should receive a concord imposed fine as well. this can even affect individuals in lowsec 0.3 and higher.high security status players should also be able to receive and use a customs module, available from concord, and scan vessels for contraband in even 0.0what fun. content eve needs to stop being so one-sided."
"holy crap, a reasonable viewpoint! you mean there could possibly be a better way to go about things then tons of random rules which are easily bypassed? *gasp*/faintsand excuse me sir, but did you call me a troll? i was being serious... kinda/mostly. i can't help it that obvious bad ideas are so fun."
"this thread is full of half-baked moldy tripe."
"let's say this passes. the disincentive to mission is now somewhat higher vs the incentives. some missioners give up. some move to more remote areas to mission. overall, 'ninja looting' still becomes more of a time sink, and less profitable. remember, when the parasites become too numerous, the host dies and if the parasites have no escape route, they die as well."
"1. add ice belts too wormhole as grav site not a static one 2. add moon mining at a lesser value maybe not maybe 50/per hour cycle or something involved in t3 modules or new t3 ships3. a way to share all scanned out site with corp or/ fleet.4. please add some random stuff to wormhole in the fact of way of sansha in wormhole or something like that would be nicethese are my request. plain and simple give us wormhole people some love we play the game too."
"as you wish.1. alt will be used everwhere instead of just somewhere. the few actual people in play will all be nano dramiels as they can leave grid in <40s. no non-nano fits will ever be used except in cases where one has massively superior numbers at ones back.2. same as caerins idea and same fundamental flaw. channel will become flooded as a single ship opens all plexes (seen up to 28 in one system) within seconds.moving it to separate channel will work for a few days until people wanting a fight close it permanently due to open plex = carebear that runs 95% of time.3. awesome. frigates used can be purely speed fit and what ship are meant to fight can be all tank/spank .. don't even need a point! .. hmmmmmrats are in general fine, just needs to be equalized so that 2 factions are not hilariously easy to avoid and their ewar is nerfed/removed.4. penalizing people for creating gangs in an mmo is neither here nor there. will likely result in min/max dogma taking over and faction ships becoming the actual norm rather than just very frequent.what you need to focus on is a fix to plex spawn mechanics, they are currently slaved to exploration system which is causing most issues.moving them to a restricted set of systems (aka. a frontline) will allow them to be spawned whenever needed plus will provide an area of space where pew is guaranteed .. especially if tangible benefits to occupancy is introduced."
"thanks for being patient, i know u go through this a lot.agreed. however there are other problems with plexes beyond their strategic placement and frequency.the fact that they can be run by wcs frigs is a joke, and as much as they create interesting pockets of space, they dont actually generate pvp encounters. they are excellent filters for ship size (althogh the filter is broken coz pirate frigs are counted as t1), but they dont actually act as magnets for pvp.1. \"alt will be used everwhere instead of just somewhere. the few actual people in play will all be nano dramiels as they can leave grid in <40s.\" ok, so also add a neut and webbing function that activates on any ships that get farther than 100km from the button. the only option once you enter a plex is to run it down to zero to turn the tower/button off. if theres a five activation limit on the entry gate for each side, then sending an alt into a plex to start the timer running will use up a slot.the channel broadcast can be made more like a page i.e. systems with current incursions page, and broadcast can be fixed to only happen once the timer is running, i.e. when someone enters plex and is locked in, rather than when plex is revealed.2. \"same as caerins idea and same fundamental flaw. channel will become flooded as a single ship opens all plexes (seen up to 28 in one system) within seconds.moving it to separate channel will work for a few days until people wanting a fight close it permanently due to open plex = carebear that runs 95% of time.\"agreed, broadcast to militia channel is rubbish idea.better would be firstly to restrict the number of possible systems to frontline as suggested, but also as mentioned above, have a page showing contested systems, with any plexs with timers running displayed clearly.3. \"awesome. frigates used can be purely speed fit and what ship are meant to fight can be all tank/spank .. don't even need a point! .. hmmmmmrats are in general fine, just needs to be equalized so that 2 factions are not hilariously easy to avoid and their ewar is nerfed/removed.\"fair enough, as i said, its a controversial idea, and worth its own thread. it seemed like an easy way of balancing it for now was simply to remove them, but if you have ideas for balancing them, im happy.4. \"penalizing people for creating gangs in an mmo is neither here nor there. will likely result in min/max dogma taking over and faction ships becoming the actual norm rather than just very frequent.\"faction ships should not be classified as t1, yes, very true.but thats a seperate issue.the issue is whether or not to have the entry gate limit access to only fw participants, and then only 5 from each side.i think there is real scope for sport in this idea, and i know that some folks are gonna scream \"instance!\" n im all like \"yeah so wot? its a laugh innit :d\""
"making plexes guaranteed death traps (auto web+scam+neut as you now propose to solve the alt problem) would not make plexing more appealing.edit to add: further, your solution does not even address the problem. why would i not just make a bunch of trial account alts, and have them sit in various plexes waiting for victims to show up so i can drop them with my faction frig and friends?if you are trying to design a system, you need to think about how people will break that system. especially with eve.your system is, in addition to its other faults, extremely breakable. it is breakable to such an extent that not metagaming with trial account alts would become an untenable playstyle."
"it's called a cargo container, and the drop is 0%anything in a cargo container in a cargohold when a ship explodes, dies with the ship. anyone who really wants to carry valuable cargo, and cheat anyone out of the kb numbers and loot if killed/ganked uses this. kb will only show the ship and modules as far as i know, nothing in the can, so they don't even get to know what they destroyed, or it's estimated value."
"i thought i should bring it to the stellar councils attention that parents who share their accounts with their young teens are been accused of using macros and being banned! the way they figure it is if you play for too long it seems! gm mehendri banned two of our households accounts for use of a macro which just is not true at all, our houshold has 3 accounts in which two need to be monitored by adults so when the kids are asleep the adults play when the kids are awake and home from school they play up until nine then the adults take over. that is not a macro! that is a family playing eve. not some shonky chinese isk farmer we are an australian family living in queensland. besides one of the adults in our house is very very sick with chronic liver disease and has to stay in bed week after week and playing eve is all he's done since he started going down hill. we would ask the stellar council to petition on our behalf since we will not be playing eve in our household anymore and i will be telling other parents how we got accused of cheating and threatened by other players with violence and greif. we've decided it's an aweful game and we have deleted the clients from our computers. best of luck with it everyone."
"this is totally the right place for thisyou were probably banned for building walls in unauthorised places"
"enthralling parable, amigo."
"even if this were the right place for this, i can hardly agree that parents should be running an eve client 23/7 for them and their children. in any case, i'd have a hard time believing it, as i'm sure would anybody at ccp.why ask for a petition on your behalf, and say you are quitting anyway? this makes it even less believable.anyway, assuming you were really telling the truth, what's to say your kids weren't actually using macro's? ..and besides that, and maybe you are actually making this all up, what's to say you don't use macro's? you don't have to be an rmt to do that.you want a petition? prove your case. mail ccp support some pictures of your family and home, and tell them what happened.cheers,"
"i'm looking forward to cq somewhat, but not as a game changer. however, i dread that cq may be a game changer in causing problems with game play unintentionally. a post in the general threads may get buried and unread by ccp, but with the csm speaking and reiterating the need for quality, we might see more of a response. questions in my mind about cq's possible hangs include coding questions, issues of 'lack of polish because this needs to meet deadline', etc. ultimately, it's a ceo/decision maker thing which reverberates down the chains of command. if the ceo deems quality to be important enough to allow deadlines to be reset if the product needs more testing, then quality becomes more important to the organization.csm has put forth the commitment to excellence in the past, and i don't think it's outdated."
"so...cut down on inter-region conflict and promote bigger coalitions by stagnating the ability to invade?brilliant!"
"don't forget making logistics hell!"
"logistics should be hell though, delete jump bridges and jump freighters. i say that as one who personally owns a jump freighter. i agree this proposal would result in further stagnation."
"why? if logistics is hell, there won't be anyone in 0.0, and that is bad."
"by stagnating the ability to invade far away regions you promote smaller coalitions. by stagnating the ability to invade (so regardless if far away or close by, so unlike this proposal) you promote smaller coalitions.so i dont see how this would promote bigger coalitions in any way.pro tip: anything that makes invading easier means you got a ****load more people wanting to invade you means you need more friends to defend, since in eve sov warfare is simply bring as many as possible, which means larger coalitions."
"you also stagnate the fun. what is wrong with people having friends?"
"you don't understand how 0.0 works at all, do you?"
"\"personally i had to fall to this scam 3 times, before i broke it down, and figured out how it worked\"fool me once shame on you, fool me twice shame on me?...."
"oh yeah, trolling, how original."
"not that half the comments posted in this thread already haven't been trolling anyway.i started this most recent of my ventures, (moving to jita, doing a bit of trading, and mostly dropping out of game except for skill training), with about 10 billion isk in my wallet. currently that number is at 2.6 billion isk or so, with ~7 billion isk in market orders selling in their own time, (it's a bit slow), a new alliance which cost me about a billion isk to create. an additional 500 million i sent to the individual who set it up for me and bumped my corp details and standings, at my discretion.another 1.2 billion is invested in increasing my personal standings with the help of sozai/tsca, (now strictly tsca.), which ended up with dnleviathan disbanding corp and absconding with a huge amount of isk in another scam, despite which i am still contracted with tsca and not out the isk. i also dropped another 150 million isk to the mission runner who had done my caldari standings to that point for sozai, and may continue to do so.count about a billion and a half or more in assets i dumped into the market, having held previously, and that puts me at somewhere around 11.5 billion isk, with about 2.85 billion of that having been spent already on what may be considered legitimate purchases and donations as stated above.all this, despite having lost 3.8 billion isk to margin trading scams.it's already been proven that an individual with an iq less than 70 can effectively perpetrate a scam, and even an einstein can fall for one.don't think for a moment that this bothers me, or that your trolling will have any real lasting effect."
"you do know that once you train the skill to at least l1, you are unable to not use it, don't you ?all orders of people that have the skill trained will have to be turned yellow.also, people who tend to have more orders will have it trained.so, you basically want to turn the majority of orders yellow.how's that going to help anybody ?"
"yeah, i know that, but am not really concerned about it.everyone will know that the orders are done with margin trading, and almost everyone will be aware that a legitimate buy order is a legitimate buy order. it really isn't hard to figure out an order isn't a scam, whether it can be covered or not.this will also mean that after a short time, players will cease to notice an order is yellow or green except in passing, which will result in players falling for that scam anyway. the difference is however, it will prompt players to ask, particularly new players, and they may be forewarned as a result.and, if that scam does pop up again for large quantities of isk with a green order, maybe we'll get to take something from them. i should know better than to think they'll take that risk though, and i should have known better. scammers don't put themselves in a position where they can actually lose anything. not when they don't have to."
"the server doesn't like it..."
"i think, that security status system is not very effective to force the consequences for outlaws. i was actualy thinking about becoming a pirate, but that makes nearly no difference of being criminal or civil person.proposal:* make security drops for attacking ships more dramatic and dependable on the system's security (for example attacking a player in 1.0 space will drop your status to -5, attacking player in 0.1 system wil drop it only by 0,5 or so- this will reflect the improved ability of concord to recognize criminals in the systems with better police coverage- also will protect the player from wannabe suicide gankers* sucurity status below -5 cannot be repaired by ratting- i suggest criminals should pay fines to concord to redeem their crimes and take their sec. status up over the -5 limit * players with -5 or lower sec. status cannot buy/sell stuff in the high secexample:i will commit a suicide gank in the 1.0 system. that will make me a criminal droping my sec. status to -5. i will move to lowsec and spend some time pirating droping my sec. status to -7. now i have decided to be a good guy again. i have to pay fines to concord to get my sec. status above -5 and then start running missions and ratting to rise it to 0.edit: posted on alt"
"first off, why? what are you hoping to achieve with this?now, what happens when someone has sell orders in highsec and hits -5? how much isk are you thinking? there are plenty of ways to protect yourself from suicide ganks, why is this one needed?"
"this is not meant to protect against sucide ganking. it is a way to make the game more challenging for the criminals. security status affects nothing, what people realy care about."
"want to try that again."
"punish the naughty reds, punish moar!!!! non-consensual pvp is evil, must.... punish... with abitrary mechanics!you were 'thinking about becoming a pirate', the obvious next step is.... moar punish 4 teh naughty reds, rite? adds game depth? no.adds increased functionality/feature? no.removes/fixes something that needed it? no.adds needless complications for no functional purpose? yes.do it? no."
"then that means he's not afk so what's the problem? why does it matter if he's not part of a fleet? this is a sandbox, not playdates online. and since he can't kill u but u can kill him, what's the problem? u're the one getting worked up over nothing. if ccp is saving them, then by your logic, ccp is also saving all of u because both r within game mechanics. and yet u want to whine about it even though u clearly stated that it doesn't affect u at all? so yes, u r a carebear and a noob that wants concord-level protection in 0.0 and so u expect that from your blob, which goes back to htfu.troll quote removed. zymurgist"
"i support a probe that allows for probing cloaked ships on one condition: local chat is put in delayed mode from all systems (yes, that includes high sec)."
"you got yourself a deal here sir."
"who are you kidding?any combat ship can practically instapop most any cloaker; that's why they're cloakers.not supported."
"attach current isk sinks to upkeep costs of i-hubs and yes, anyone can put them up. all of them are active at the same time but obviously only the best of them is used in determining a system's effective upgrades. so no, they wouldn't stack. it also means you can cyno jam any system and throw a jump bridge up in any system and frankly, that's the point. null sec has always been painfully static because defense is too easy. your control of a system should be based on your ability to actually defend it, not artificially by stationary objects you anchor in space that do nothing but soak up ammo and place silly restrictions on what you can do with the system.i of course don't expect this to happen. too many people like their ratting bots and manual anomaly farming which is made possible by a lack of serious conflict in null sec. but that doesn't mean it isn't a good idea."
"this idea is bad and you should feel bad."
"hmm.. there seem to be a lot of games doing this now. my argument is simple however: what's to stop everybody from creating a plethora of combat missions with a good payout, and flooding all available agents with them, completely skewing the agent/mission type? that is what everyone will do, or at least the ones interested in doing it will. what's the point anyway? there are plenty of missions out there, though you might find running them ten to twelve times boring if you were me. reality: mission runner's do the same missions consecutively, without turning them in, day by day, until it's turn them in or lose the standings and reward for them. they get farmed, whether they be angel extravaganza or another like mission. your idea, just means people will make somewhat different missions, that produce the same rewards as missions like that. heck, the designer will even have the advantage of knowing everything about the mission. what purpose, besides another way to make isk, and more missions that generate that revenue, rather than the missions you don't like being in queue?sorry can't really support this."
"obviously ccp would check missions before inserting it into the game. all other mmos that implement player created missions do this, why should eve be any different.it's a common feature in mmos those days, tested and proven to be both cheap and effective in many other games. the risk factor that comes with innovations isn't there, because it's nothing new. eve should keep up with the times, there's no reason to get left behind. supported. you mean ccp will create new missions if players don't? sure, coming soon."
"what people might forget is that the csm has no real power! if ccp says no its no and their is not a damm thing anybody can do about it (beside leaving the game ofc)!"
"why are mummy and daddy arguing?"
"well spotted. never again. (but one misspelled difficult word, and a consistent one at that, is pretty good for a mail that size written with no spell check. still... terrible)dear failur pilots of [p-nem],welcome to the realm of the thoroughly trolled.we are project nemesis. perhaps you have heard of us before; if you have not, i am still content. being feared is nice. teaching others to fear you is equally nice.we have done terrible things, we have done awesome things, and we have broken better men and stronger bonds than you have. prons has probably been around for longer than most of you have even known about eve.but don't take my word for it. go find out for yourself. it's amazing how lazy eve players are when it comes to googling their opponents. you posted a whole sheaf of terrible replies in this thread without learning a single thing.so here are some freebies for you.p.s. you still haven't paid up. i wasn't joking about consequences. take me seriously or don't, respect and kills are both cool with me."
"here.feel free to read all the 34 pages of it.if you search a bit you can find some hundred older threads."
"thanks buddy. i read most of it but it seems the op uses spurious arguments to press the case for keeping them."
