"1.0"
"i selected my race entirely on aesthetics not on anything else and as i don't like the new one at all so supported"
"supported. considering that our characters are transhuman clone-hoppers anyway, it seems silly that we have to stick to only one racial face."
"here's a gallente fix:let everyone reallocate the sp to caldari"
"meh"
"bump."
"based on what eve online's carriers and battleships are designed from, this proposal makes no real sense. real life carriers are usually between 300-350m in length, while battleships are between 250-300m in length, so if ccp wants to base the in-game ships even partially on what sea warfare vessels are like in real life, they would do well to leave ship models at the size they currently are.i agree that supercarrier was a lazy name, and it should be changed."
"if ccp had done that, you might have a point. i urge you to reconsider your position based upon the following data.a thanatos, a regular carrier, has a volume of 13,095,000 m3. a macheriel, the largest graphic of a battleship, has a volume of 595,000 m3. a dominix, one of the most common battleships, has a volume of 454,000 m3. the thanatos is over 22 times the size of the macheriel. it couldnt be clearer that ccp did not model spaceships after sea going vessels of earth, save loosely in name.-windjammer"
"when windjammer is agreeing with me. you know i'm right."
"i agree, make 'em larger."
"we still will try our best to make it happen."
"putting something in quote tags, which means it was (allegedly) actually said is not the same as a joke. only someone with mental damage, for example, would have thought that any of the michael jackson jokes were actually purporting to be jackson's own words. not quite the same as a (forged) direct quote in a manner that indicates it's an actual quote (say, quote tags). i see you are solely lying and trolling now. i already explained it to show how you are misusing it, and despite your lie now, not only were you the one who brought it up, but it was you who were trying to use it as proof for something. your compatriot in trolling has already admitted that this was false. and you are now trolling as i already pointed this out to you. yet again, click your assets tab, use the string \"ship\" and see how many drones are returned. more lying and trolling. everybody understands that when you put your drones on \"aggressive\" or on \"guard\" stance, then you can not commend them to attack a specific enemy out of 100 attacking you without first targeting it and directing them. which is, of course, why you cannot simply describe how the process is done, because you're trolling, and lying, and you made it up. if you weren't lying, it'd take, what, a dozen words to describe how to do it? that's the trouble with lies, awfully hard to provide proof for them. \"convenient\" now you stop posting. already proven that it's a kludge. and you are trolling yet again by not having actually answered the facts about its kludged nature, but pretending i haven't answered you. no, that's just you lying and trolling again.see above, about you lying and trolling. first part: see above, about you lying and trolling. second part: you are again trolling, as a descriptive term does not lose its validity simple because it is spoken. see above, about how you are lying and trolling about drone functions. already done. see above, about you trolling. see above, about you lying and trolling. drones have absolutely no specificity, just like fof missiles, unless directed onto a locked target, yes, despite your trolling, even with the assist command the ship they're assisting must still target things in order to direct drones with specificity. see above, about you lying and trolling (again). see above about you lying and trolling (again). see also bandwagon fallacy. lying and trolling again, on the same point (again). they're not ships."
"the quote tags are also used for identifying who a poster is speaking to, and are frequently edited for the purpose of making a joke."
"we know that, silly. thats why someone created a thread titled \"repair yourself with your repair drones\" so we could get them to repair our ships with a right click command or something similar. oh yeah and drones are still different from remote repair modules. :) in fact they're a whole different class of items. its the differences from remote repair modules that leads me (and others) to believe they should be able to repair your own ship not the similarities."
"... so you pretty much just picked a random phrase to take out of context? the guy who i was responding to was trolling about how his drones can engage specific targets without a target lock. just like remote repair modules are a different class from remote capacitor modules and a different class from autocannons which are a different class from lasers which are a different class from drones... it's been other people arguing that disparate things are fungible, not me. i've pointed out that the fundamental principle remains behind their usage."
"if by \"fundamental principal\" you mean the similarity that currently rep drones and remote rep modules can only be used on someone else's ship you're right, it is a similarity. i say the fundamental principle of rep drones is to rep ships. oh look, its subjective!there are things that remote rep modules have in common with rep drones and things they don't. the people that support this thread want to change one similarity.just because you choose to label something a \"fundamental principal\" doesn't make it so, and it certainly doesn't mean you cant change anything."
"i see you avoided the use and context of my statement about drone mechanics in response to someone trolling about how he can set his drones on \"guard\" and still tell them exactly which ship to engage. not a good sign if you do something like that and when your mistake it pointed out, you change the subject...likewise, in a thread this long, it's somewhat less than comforting that you've either ignore my argument or are choosing not to discuss it, and claiming that all i've said is that both have external effects. i've pointed out that effects which are external, and which rely on a target lock, have a specific place in terms of balance, use, the overall schema for eve combat for solo and cooperative play, etc...it's not simply that they're used on other people's ships, although that's a facet of it. and it is somewhat odd that you're claiming requiring a target lock in to direct effects at that target isn't a fundamental principle, but one i'm just inventing."
"i thought you meant it was the fundamental principal as in: their main purpose. thats why i said i thought their fundamental principal was to rep ships. but whatever. cool, then explain to us why it would make things imbalanced without simply stating \"rep drones are targeted cooperative effects.\" (we know you currently need a target lock, you don't need to keep repeating it)"
"it's a much worse sign if you not only don't acknowledge your mistake, but then go on to recycle it and pretend that i was simply stating that they require a target lock. so in other words, you want to discuss the balance and usage issues without talking about how they're balanced and used. no... the fact that they're tee's is essentially to understanding their use and balance within the game. the questions i asked earlier were: and balance/usage issues are related to all of those. which one would you like to talk about?"
"well, the whole point is that they can be killed. i mean, it's the same thing at the moment, you just need two ships for it, because since you cannot put the drones on yourself, you put them on each-other."
"nope, i want you to address balance issues without simply saying \"they are targeted external effects.\" you can use that phrase if you like.i'll make my previous post more clear if you're finding it difficult to comprehend: you can't simply use the phrase \"they are targeted external effects\", you have to elaborate on it. specifically why changing the behavior of rep drones will make the game imbalanced."
"the penalty is lower dps. you have rep drones out instead of combat ones.there are a lot of assumptions being made in this thread about intentions/the way drones work from a code standpoint. without ccp confirmation, all these are guesses. we can ask the csm to put this forward to ccp, and if there are reasons ccp doesn't like it, then we'll find out at that stage.oh, and we should thank finn for keeping this on page 1."
"good thing, then, that i didn't. as i said, balance/usage issues are related to all of those. which one would you like to talk about?"
"lol"
"yes, you were trolling and got responses. lowell! of course, nobody has shown any actual good reason to change mechanics besides the fact that they'd like it, and nobody has even addressed any reason why violating balance except for \"they're... drones!\" and trolling about how drones are ships or drones can indeed be directed to attack individual targets without a lock, or what have you."
"still needs attention... even a year later."
"most excelent..."
"bump"
"yes please give me a reason to train my electroinic attack figs skill beyound the lvl 2 i took so i could steal them. the class has so mutch potential yet has so much fail. atleast make them a good addition to frig gangs."
"/signed"
"i'm suprised and disappoint that ccp isn't using the same mechanism as the csm vote."
"1.0"
"this. i fully support this proposal."
"/signed- all importent features must be accessible via client or normal account pages- furthermore: discard the crappy eve-gate"
"/signed."
"**** facebook."
"i use fb and i have no plans to vote through fb."
"/signed"
"that ccp employee who decided to use failbook to vote must be fired immediately."
"well said. i was excited by the prospect of a new competition after the whole deviant fiasco, when i saw i would be required to join facebook in order to take part i was somewhat irked.i have taken one look at the competing entries, some very nice work there but i won't be voting. it's a shame ccp went down this route as i certainly would of voted had it actually been an \"in-house\" competition."
"i agree."
"+2 just so i dont have to use face book"
"agree fully"
"full support. would take a lot of balance but the idea is sound. maybe rails should do more damage the longer they travel, since they are long range shell based weapons in space. shouldn't they be more destructive at long range? i mean no friction in space, so i believe if blasters did more damage the closer you are, and rails did more damage the farther away you are, that would be a more interesting game mechanics. like oh god i got to get closers to reduce damage from that battleships weapons."
"aaa+"
"supported conditionally; i don't think they need a hp boost, relatively weak tank/hp i think fits with the destroyer concept. they do need a sig reduction, so they aren't insta-pop with cruisers and above on the field. they could also use a scosh more cpu/grid, though i'm unsure about adding slots. i'd also fore-go more grid/cpu on the gallente boat in return for being having the drone bay/bandwidth for at least 3 lights."
"so... much... bitterness...and only at 6 hours till new year /supported"
"if it was implemented consistently with the way the halo and nomad sets work, the full coward set, with the bonuses as stated in the op, would grant a 64% logoff timer reduction for non-capital ships. for capital ships, the reduction would be 99.72%, causing them to disappear in under 2.6 seconds.the double set bonus from the omega for capital ships would cause the delta and epsilon implants to give negative bonuses when used as part of a full set. happily, when combined these return a positive number for the timer % reduction, avoiding any paradoxical effects."
"i initially wanted something like this, but wanted more of a 'risk' factor.however, i totally agree with your reasons. smaller groups need to be able to have a chance at getting some of the rarer mins, and perhaps have a larger impact on the game as a whole.ce"
"lol because getting in a jf with a ton of probes is sooo challenging"
"it's a simple matter for ccp to make the ganker blinks red, without making an entry in character sheet. the minor bit of extra coding is only an excuse if you want to use it as one."
"i agree, so many people live in 0.0 and expect it to be as safe as high sec. these people dont deserve the rewards 0.0 has to offer but they get the rewards because 0.0 is almost as safe as high sec for many alliances and thats wrong and ccp need to open there eyes to this"
"im sorry for trying to make the game actually involve skill and not just about sitting in a lagged out system not being able to control your ship and hoping i have more internet friends than the other guy.silly little goonie, you do make me smile"
"+1 for all 3large alliances have a huge 1up on smaller groups. there is almost no way to change the balance of power without taking months to get in a spy, and taking them apartthe sov system in place lets big alliances take their time to bring all their "
"jump bridges -1jb are one of the advantages of holding nullsec space , if oyu dont like it stay in high sec. or better yet find the bridges you hate so much and shoot them till there around 25% hull, that way there disabled and they cant put new ones up and it will tkae at least half a day to rep them unless they bring a sc swam. sov pos. -1unles this pos is a heavaly defended super pos a correctly set up gang will make sure that evey one of these stations will allways be in reinforced mode. its two wasy of a target to control system sov.probing -1while you make a point with how if there in system they know where you are , this is kinda the norm for most space games. i mean i hate to pull up old stuff but even in starwars or startrek if the enemy is in system you know where they are and they dont need to \"warp to 0\" to get to them. the main problem i have is that some fleets will slingshot from object to object ina system if they know there out numbered to wear off there aggression timers and then log off. they are hard enough to catch as it is"
"you're advocating a system where established 0.0 alliances lose one of the major advantages they hold space for (and apparently you don't realise that in 0.0 those jump bridges you hate so much make prime locations for small gangs to gank careless idiots at), a re-establishment of the bad old days of pos warfare (with the added bonus of a weedy little pos structure which any old bunch of nobodies can come along and shoot), and trying to return the 1-dimensional fleet doctrines of old ('just bring more t2 sniper bs guys') which the new probing system thankfully helped to break up.your 'destroy their way of playing because its different to mine' argument and appeal to 'skill' (pressing f1 to shoot your guns at the primary in one type of ship is so much more skillful than pressing f1 to shoot the primary in another type of ship) is cute though."
"from your posts i take it that you havent played the game long, for starters the probing you talked about, starwars and star trek really? you have no understanding of the game, all you want is 0.0 on easy mode, your the person who should be in high sec. you like being able to probe easily because easy probing stops skilled gangs using snipe tactics to fight outnumber and it actualy requires some skill, all you want is blob vs blob no skill boring pvp.and why should the pos be heavily armed, if a small gang can roll into your space and shoot a 10 million hitpoint structure without being killed then you dont deserve the space in the first place, before sov people used to have to actually defend their stations when hostiles showed up instead of cowering away until you can get 5:1 odds in your favour, know im not saying bring back station ping pong but atleast make it so alliances have to defend their space when hostiles attack."
"know i understand people can sit on jump bridges and gank stragglers who are stupid enough to jump through and get caught, any small gang can camp a jump bridge and harass larger alliances. what i dont accept is people being able to cover 5 regions and 50 jumps in 8 or 9 jumps because of jump bridges. i understand thats how many people like to play this game by moving around and blobbing every region of space they can, then complain on the forums on how ccps game is broken because there 1000 man blob couldnt load or shoot in system. 0.0 is meant to be a harsh and hard place to live, where there is great rewards but these rewards come with a great risk, because of jump bridges that risk is greatly reduced and makes 0.0 to easy to live in.and you talk about 1 dimensional fleets, all of todays fleets are high ehp buffer tanks with as many logistics as you can get, all anyone does is warp on top of each other, sit there and press f1 and broadcast for reps. yes these fleets come in different variations but all work in exactly the same way and all involve little to no skill, its all about who has the most numbers or who gets hit the worst by lag."
"and from your posts i find you like to jump to conclusions just so your point is valid. and to counter you first argument , my probing skills are actually lacking atm , i'm more on of the guys with the big guns who follows our prober's. and yes i compared eve to starwars and star-trek, cause guess what there all about space ships in guess what space.and why should a single sov holding new pos structure be heavily armed, um duh sov used to be held my numerous pos structures in a single system. if this new one is not a very hard nut to crack then all its gonna take is 100-150 guys with energy drinks to stay up till alliance a's main fleet is asleep and 2-3 hours work and when they wake up half there sov is gone.i do however agree that fleets atm are simply who has the more logis and higher buffer , and its kinda sad"
"could at least start from making jump bridges usable by alliance members only. right now they enable whole naptrains to instantly travel onto the \"deepest\" corners of the galaxy."
"as usually if something is not right ccp will release a fix to address the problem then why care if is complete now when i can work on my character later on lets say 5 months from now i dont think that they will render my zus dysfunctional"
"they're stuck in the rush for dust and wod.currently dust is this simple lil console shooter port, easy enough to build the models for an existing engine etc. so it's all basically finished months ago, sitting in a corner gathering hah dust. the original plan was to slowly integrate it, but obviously they've discovered that deploying on console you have to get a lot of the code in the initial cd rather then on patches. so all these things need to be completed so that dust can be released and cashflow can be made from the wasted years of dev spent on it and the bloated relatives.ccp explained this when they told us they wouldn't be working on eve-online their flagship product for 2 years as a result.of course the eve community isn't happy to wait for these superfluous changes when their main driving factor is to save money on code for another game, world of darkness, and generate cashflow from yet another side-project dust.the rush to release dust shouldn't involve pushing product onto eve which isn't ready for release.history tells us that it will unfortunately.the ccp game i pay for is eve-online..... how bout you?"
"exactly that is my biggest concern. if it even takes 3 years to fix somethimng simple like rockets, i don't have much hope for something far more complicated like a character editor."
"lol"
"i'm not worried at all. that would imply there is a reasonable chance ccp will keep the ball in play instead of dropping it."
"i am kinda worried, i have 3 different types of characters, and 2/3 seem pretty bland honestly. i mean really bland, i can even make this intaki here look like a brutor male with the new stuff.i'm just saying we can postpone it for 12 or so more days to make sure we all look cool and retain our identities."
"this, thank you csm for being rational :p"
"i'm more than unsatisfied with the current options the editor has imho it should be postponed till incarna edit: oh and there are hardly gonna be much improvement to what we gonna get on sisi right nowps: i want haircut, tattoo, eyes and robe of the char i have nowpps: i selected my race in eve only by look of it so imho ccp should allow us to change race by the release of the editor"
"don't try to start a fire before limber arrives."
"i'd say: only release it when it's working to everyones satisfaction on sisi. which it doesn't at all now."
"all ships need to have sum capacitor protection from power drainage to balance ships that already have inherited weakness for example amarr and their guns they have big cap and skill to support the weapons but when they get attacked with power neut they are rapidly disabled in higher extend of any other ship in game.this can work like ship class bonuses like sensor strength"
"ever heard of cap boosters?"
"after the changes are implemented to make agents smarter they will not even talk to you unless you have at least a hac or battlecruiserthe whole point is making agents have common sense of course i cannot forsee every loophole in a single post but ccp can because they have a army of devs"
"tl;dr: i am tired of getting handed combat missions that might screw up my faction standing. make it so i can run missions without having to worry about that, please.i wouldn't say no to smarter missions, and a wider variety of them, but as for what you're suggesting -- no. just no."
"if you haven't read up on the article, you can do so here -"
"contractual griefing?"
"changes i would make. 1 make it a every one in kinda contract, 15 people can accept the contract only one can complete it( or one fleet), this way some one cant simply accept all the contracts for his alt them wait a while.2 make it so that in order to increase you bounty hunter \"mojo\" level you have to take in lot of contacts from lots of people and get decent amounts of isk for it. this way some one cant simple put 50 contracts on an alt blow up his pod 50 times and then say ya i'm a real bounty hunter3 i like your tracking idea but make it skill dependant with like 6 new \"bounty hunter\" skills. this way if your going to be a bounty hunter you will have to train for it but you will be better than the guy pretending will all level 1 skills"
"summary: when a ship is assembled store the timestamp of assembly and generate a unique registration number for the ship which cannot be changed.i wouldn't be surprised if this information already existed in the backend database and it would just be a case of exposing the information. however i also believe that the treatment of packaged items would mean that repackaging an item would lose this information.this information would be available when you viewed the information page of the entity, and the registration information would also be logged in killmails.adding this enables all sorts of extra abilities - killboards would be able to track not just pilots but specific ships.- supercaps would be locked to their registration number, nerds can try and collect sightings of as many as possible.- people who pay silly amounts for 'the first ship off the line' will be able to actually verify that their ship really is special, and, possibly even trade them with this special nature intact."
"and how do you, without introducing a monumental amount of new, and otherwise useless data, solve the following problem.i have a ship, hurricane class, named carebear draft dodger, serial number 14321187659.i repackage the ship, toss it on a stack of fity other hurricanes, divide the stack into two stacks, one of ten, one of 40. how do i know which stack contains 14321187659?keeping in mind that these ships are not unique items at this point, but just a stack of item of type hurricane with an integer indicating how many are in the stack?edit for clarification."
"this is based on this thread -"
"they don't"
"seriously, that thread is at the top of the page.. post this there!"
"if ccp had done that, you might have a point. i urge you to reconsider your position based upon the following data.a thanatos, a regular carrier, has a volume of 13,095,000 m3. a macheriel, the largest graphic of a battleship, has a volume of 595,000 m3. a dominix, one of the most common battleships, has a volume of 454,000 m3. the thanatos is over 22 times the size of the macheriel. it couldnt be clearer that ccp did not model spaceships after sea going vessels of earth, save loosely in name.-windjammer"
"clearly boats and galactic spaceships are very similar and should be kept in line with one another."
"also cross posting is bad, mmkay?"
"now i just think you're trolling. your comparison is missing one vital point. carriers in the real world navy are carrying fighters and in fact can not hold battleships inside them. carriers in eve do hold battleships inside them, can fit 2 in fact as long as they arent gallente. so until carriers in the real world are designed to carry battleships, your entire thread is moot."
"and the post turned into a poorly executed troll at this point..."
"allow kill rights and war declarations transfers to individuals so they can participate if hired as assassins or mercenaries, that will satisfy loner hunters to have fun with others that like aggression"
"kill right transfers have been discussed for a while, not sure if it is a good idea or not.but, if you want to kill something without consequences, go to npc null. or wormholes. that way you can satisfy whatever crazy urges you get while waiting for ccp to decide to do anything."
"use for high sec wars"
"transfer kill-rights? sure. but transferable wars? that does not make sense to me."
"you need to make your post a lot clearer if you want anyone to be able to judge it properly and support it.war-declarations, makes no sense whatsoever.as for kill-rights, they should be commodities that can be traded openly.csm voted unanimously for it two years ago but i haven't heard any official word about it since.not that their version is very good (way to lenient on the ganker), but its a start."
"allow area of effect weapons in high sec space by not damaging or effecting non aggravated targets and objects"
"um no. if they don't damage all objects in range they cease to be an aoe weapon."
"you mean turn off friendly fire , so ******s can spam aoe weapons without thinking or having any skill. god i hate that feature in every game and i don't think eve would be an exception.no. use targeted weapon systems or take the risk of hitting non-hostiles and getting concorded."
"changing aoe weapons to not affect friendlies would be dumb, one of the principles of eve is that you have freedom to act, but that your actions may have consequences. if you wish to activate your smartbombs then you accept the risk that comes with them.however, i would like to see de-restriction of the weapon types that don't currently function in empire (eg bomb launchers, lowsec doomsdays, interdictor bubbles), as long as there are consequences."
"allow sensor probes to be deployed and anchored to counter cloaked ships and disallow objects and structures from reviling them"
"really, think about a post before you just open the floodgates to your mind.first off anchoring probes is laughable as they have a limited power source. second, how would this counter cloaked ships? they would just cloak and be undetected as usual.as for \"disallow objects and structures from reviling them\", i'm not even sure what you mean."
"hi corina i am not talking of the ones you know, ok lets say device of sensing cloaked ships that can be d****d so it eliminates the need of using containers for the specific need it will make the game play more realistic,"
"looks like cromo is at it again on an alt. only he is dumb enough to post this sort of crap."
"move rigging skills from the mechanic skill bracket is too big to look through"
"this has been suggested before (in some form) but i'll support it again anyway.science also needs a clean out... though not sure how to go about it."
"please! perhaps submenus within the science and mechanic menus for the specific categories?"
"the main problem is: who is to decide where simple macro ends, and where bot start. the thing is that both - marco and bot - can interact with the game on the same level, so blocking one (if ever fully accomplished) will block the other, and vice-versa.still, the bots also can interact on memory level of client, that macros cant do, since (as you said) they are just series of keystrokes). but one (ccp) have to think about the big picture, and there are as many autoclickers that read pixel colors to identify points on screen where to click (pi clickers, old mining bots and so on) as client breaching automates that play the game by itself (like the one presented in article that opened this whole rmt/macro/bot discusion)if by blocking bots ccp will also block all kind of macro'es and programs like evemetrcs adn eve-central market extractors, so be it (sorry eve-central, i hope one day ccp will implement market api)"
"what's really sad is that not only has ccp failed to address the problem of botting, but has actually introduced a feature (planetary interaction) that is a perfect scenario for botting. ccp this is an epic fail. you seem to be more interested in distracting people with new things (of doubtless quality) than actually fixing existing problems (lag/botting).i have spoken my peace. i am done, back to my mining.i love eve"
"botters are some small percentage of active players. ccp create content for players, and as such one or the other can be operated by macroes, if it is simple enough that you can operate it with simple repetitive clicking without thinking like the pi you showed as example.and content need to be easily accessible and controllable otherwise you will get to solve quantum equations before boarding the ship, just to opose possible macroes (well, bot will probably solve that equation easily that player, but i think you get what i meant there).the main concern is fighting possibility to interact automatically with game. that what i think at least."
"give players the ability to sell stacks of multiple items with a single click and allow autopilot to interact with afterburners. fix these 2 simple issues with the game and i will gladly stop defending macros."
"also i want to be able to put blue ribbon's in my pony's hair, the red ribbons simply won't do."
"and i want my char to have nose in place of mouth, and ribbons coming out of ears, plus of course be able to dress my male char in female victorian age dress./sarcasm offguys, give it time. its not released yet. its really good looking. you may not be able to create 100% match with your old avatar, but still - if you sit to it, you can get really close.as for the clothes and hairstyles?i guess we will be able to buy more types in-game soon, or maybe some player made will be an option or avaible as micro-transactions items?the \"basic sample\" avaible for everyone during character creation will be just for tease :)"
"i wouldn't worry too much about the system as it is now. remember it is only on sisi, which means it is still more or less beta. what you see on sisi is unlikely t be the final product."
"well it's the lack of communication that worries me. while some of these issues have already been mentioned in october 2010, it's been systematically ignored thus far. and with incursions iii on our doorstep and the same things still in part 4 of the creator i find it legitimate to express my concern. there's no indication whatsoever that these points are even being noticed by ccp (or the csm what that's concerned), let alone that they're taking them into consideration. i do hope we do get some feedback from either, i really won<U+FFFD>t like it if they release the editor as is and start working on the player<U+FFFD>s issues \"somewhere down the road\". it's a questionable way of doing things, releasing things bugged and incomplete and without functions and options the previous version had and then start thinking about fixing them - if at all - when you knew a lot of issues beforehand."
"we need a system to allow experienced pilots to accelerate their standing gains so that they are not forced to farm low level missions just so that the l4s will talk to them. the system as it is now is crippling and forces players to stay in one region of space in order to stay near their supply lines. this thread is to discuss ideas of how the agent system can be improved so that a multimillion sp character can freely move around the universe and still be able to fly missions that are of his skill level rather than performing menial tasks just to farm useless standings points.at first i thought it would be a simple matter of allowing corperate standing to override individual standing but on the same note you would have newer players with little skill that can talk to l5 agents. what is needed is a balance between standing and player skill that will allow a experienced player to walk into any corporation and take the harder level missions with no standing requirements while at the same time relying on standing to determine the quality of the agent and the rewards they earn from the missions,."
"this, again :)its bean a whole year now:p"
"along the lines of the customisable damage alarms i think it would be nice to have customizable overview rules. for example you could set up a rule that when a drones current target has a relative radial velocity higher then the drones weapons the corresponding entry in the overview or deployed drones list could toggle to red to let the player know its not being affective. or have targeted objects change colors when a module is in range of falloff, and again when at optimal.i think this would be a much more efficient way to gleam information from the ui. given a variety of information about locked targets and the players own ship made accessible to this feature it could easily be applied in a myriad of different situations. this would could greatly increase usability and pilot effectiveness in combat, or even mining.im just kinda spit balling here, does anyone else think this would be useful?"
"the whole ui needs a drastic overhaul. that being said, you can already put a column on your overview for angular velocity and you can know when your weapons are in optimal or falloff."
"sounds niceprobably easy to implement (all client side)potential lag from overview, although it would all be client side the overview is still slow to respond where there is a lot of targets - add additional layer of conditions and indication... go figure. would love to get more option in setting what i see and how i see in overview."
"i have found from expiriace with turreted weapons that optimal range is infact optimal range and belive it or not point blank shooting has the same effect as shooting from too far away. next time you try to kill the space lab try to use the keep at distance option to stay between optimal and the falloff.i have a harpie that is nearly 100% acurate from 50+km but it cant hit anything that is closer than 10km so it is all about the optimal not the actualy speed or size"
"no doubt pos's look like crap with everything unattached and floating around pos. support general idea but guns and such should remain as a vulnerable part whether outside bubble as they are now of attached inside to pos."
"mm-hm. desperately needed. poses are an embarrassment to the entire game..."
"friendly bump, to keep this fresh"
"i'm sure similar suggestions have been made already in this thread and every related thread, but i'd like to give my 2 cents. first off, i support suicide ganking. the danger of losing your stuff is what makes eve stand out above wow. if you want to officer fit your ship and never risk it, go play wow where your gear is safe.that being said, suicide ganking is too easy. with 100% insurance payouts, it is a zero cost and therefore effectively zero risk operation. i like the idea of either removing insurance payouts for concorded ships or at least reducing the payout by a significant margin. this means that suicide gankers will have to chose truly worthwhile targets and turn their trade into a skilled trade once again.i also agree with earlier ideas of allowing these pirates a quicker way back into high sec, both through decreased sec status penalties (they were already penalized through isk) and possibly purchasable tokens that can be redeemed with concord to raise sec status. (best of all make the tokens available in lp stores so, for isk, mrs will possibly fund their own demise) yes, i like irony."
"so they will always bring more than you have, how will this help pvp ?"
"some good ideas here. +1although having to scan for plexes is really no big deal, tbh. as long as it can be done with onboard scanner it's just a matter of a couple minutes. calling for changing that is just laziness speaking imho."
"your problems #2, #3 and #4 are common to pvp in general. they are not gonna go away, ever. regardless what you do.i agree though that plexes should in general be more about pvp. the whole plexing thing needs a complete overhaul tbh."
"i didn't read all the post (its to long for me) i just like clicking the thumbs up button.scorpionidae"
"first let me say that i am not entirely wed to having this particular intel given. it is more important that we at least know where the plexes are being captured. however, on the whole i do think providing this intel is a good idea for 2 reasons:1) your militia would know what ship it is, so surely they would report it.but more importantly 2) i do think it would lead to more pvp. consider this example: you are flying in a rifter. you see on the militia intel channel that there is a minor plex being taken by 1 enemy pilot 5 jumps in one direction and another plex being taken by 1 enemy pilot 5 jumps in the opposite direction. now one of the plexes has an enemy merlin which you would engage, the other minor plex has a thrasher which you would not engage. if you know what ships they are flying you will go to the merlin and pvp will likely ensue. if you dont know what ships are involved then you have a good chance of going to thrasher. in that case you will jump the 5 jumps and then use your dscan and see it is a thrasher in there and likely wisely decide not to engage. no pvp.now of course you might think consider a different scenario. if you are in a plex in a thrasher they will bring 2 thrashers to kick you out. perhaps that will be the case but then again maybe you are familiar with pilots and that they only fit t1 mods or are really bad or something and decide to fight both. but lets assume the most likely result: that is that you will take a pass on fighting two versus 1 in the same ship. so you warp out to another system and start running a different plex. now the two pilots can either 1) leave one pilot behind to run the plex you started and have the other go after you in whatever plex you started. or 2) both stay where they are and run the plex you started themselves in which case you can run a plex somewhere else in the same time. or 3) both continue to chase you out of plexes. if they choose the first option you get your pvp fight when you fight the single thrasher that follows you.now if they choose the second or third option you are winning occupancy war because you just tied up two pilots with one pilot! you see every pilot is a valuable resource because they could potentially be running plexes. using 2 to accomplish the same task is a waste.but the important thing is not necessarily that you are winning the occupancy war. the important thing is *why* you are winning the occupancy war. you are not winning the occupancy war because you are better at pve. you are winning because you are so much better at pvp that the other side needs to commit 2 pilots in order to kick you out of any plex. the side with the better pvpers will definitely have a huge advantage. by making occupancy truly depend on pvp skill winning occupancy will actually be something that will be worthy of respect and therefore something of value. nobody respects good pvers. (thats why we dont have a pve alliance tournament) this is why not many really cared when caldari won the occupancy fight. given the current plexing mechanics no informed person thought they won because the average caldari was better at pvp than the average gallente."
"this is the key to the whole thing and fixes all related issues without further hunting.plex spawning mechanics and occupancy are broken beyond being usable.after downtime there are 3 systems (constellation based occupancy/sov needs fix too) in the combat zone that can be faught over by fleets of any size with any degree of numbers stacking for hours of fun.three hours after downtime this is no longer possible as you can no longer find plex to force into the target system. for the rest of the day factionwar is not factionwar.thus you have 2 groups of factionwar pilots. a) there are those who have played after downtime and see the awesomeness which is factionwar. the best pvp in this game.b) then there are those that just \"pvp\" and think \"plex are pve\" because of the broken mechanic.i'm here to say fw plex are the best and biggest pvp content in this game.with fw plex you can always get a fight. it will always be different. it has many options of where it can occur.i've seen 10 cruisers be able to get fights with 40 bc.i've seen 5 destroyers force 20 bc to reship and fly into a hostile plex for an awesome fight.i've seen 1 carrier take on 20 matar for fun with the support of bs rats.three hours past downtime when factionwar is no longer available for play the same situations result in 100 players being bored and unable to get an engagement started.we then log for the night and go play wot.edit: btw had to switch to support to get any kinda focus on this major expansion that has been abandon by ccp.will incursions be the same?will incarnia be the same?will dust be the same?will wod be the same?i can only assume \"yes\"."
"i have been playing with the new avatar creator and am probably going to be happy enough with the results to not need this. but...the old avatar's were just static images and the choices we made about appearence only effected a tiny little pic at the side of the screen. and for those who have been around a while the race/bloodline atributes were probably the bigest factor in decideing what race blooodline to go with. as those no longer apply, and for anyone wanting to use incarna the chriteria we would use for choosing bloodline, race, or even gender, are now totally different.couple that with the differences in appearence between old and new i think its reasonable to be offered the option to change. for these and all of the above reasons i support this."
"if nothing else, keep the current bloodline for the \"lol your choices have consequences\" crowd and let us have plastic surgery to assume the appearance of a new race."
"idk if this has ever been suggested but maybe we should change the mobility gall ships such that they can fit plates and still be as fast as they are now. that would make them the fast(but not as fast as minnie and certainly not a sustainable sprint like them. but rather i think they should get the slight buff in dmg and tracking and fitting capacity to fit the buffer they want and the ability to move quickly with said buffer in place. i know itd have to be carefully balanced so they dont become ehp monsters that can nano everywhere but with a weak cap and short range guns theyd be damn good in a sprint/slugfest which is the feel i get from blasters. on another note this would bring gallente ships a bit more use in ahac gangs with their increased ehp and dps.(p.s. i support the rails bleed through thing but only to armor gives them an interesting niche )edit :maybe make some ships bonus a reduction to plates mass addition?"
"do something for crying out loud."
"why? caldari blaster ships are even worse than gallente"
"what i haven't supported this yet!a carriers need a boost in size, i was packing a drake and a cane into a chimera and all i could think is you are so small.breaks the immersion anyway free bump."
"please explain why this change will create an imbalance finn."
"i don't mind which balance issue you address finn. address all of them if you like, or your favorite, or issue that will create the biggest imbalance.just stop dodging"
"you're welcome to dispute my claims that it would effect any and/or all of those dynamics and throw off their balance. you've refused to even address them for, what, half a dozen posts now? it's rather odd for you to claim that i'm dodging anything since you won't even address my points. again, choose any single one, or all of them if that's what you prefer as you've stated. drones interact with each of the game mechanics i've noted, and changes would break those dynamics. any of them that you'd like to argue aren't violated by the changes you support, have at it.but don't dodge the issue, that i've spelled out several times now, and claim that i'm dodging anything. cheers."
"well if you have no argument as to why this change would make gameplay imbalanced.....edit:a series of rhetorical questions is hardly a satisfactory explanation.again, please explain any or all balance issues this change will create. just your favorite issue if you like.cheers."
"100% wholly supported! 200% even.being forced to use failbook is an insult. sure, use it, but enable an option to use my own eve subscription that does not steal my contact list information and spam people who have no interest in eve with pointless advertising. my friends & family don't care one whit about whatever games i'm playing, and i sure as sin don't care about the thirty idiotic spamverts i get bloating my inbox every day (and imagine what that inbox looks like when i log in, at most, one or two times a year).stupid tactic, ccp, just plain stupid."
"thumbs up for this."
"no facebook for me"
"supporti'm not sure if i like this new web team, or at least the new direction the old web team is taking."
"got my vote. i hate facebook and all sites like them. there infested with all kinds of spy ware and virus.edit: it also go's way against protecting your eve account. part of protecting your eve account is not just virus scaners but staying away from sites like facebook. lolz"
"we don't need someone with a bunch of lemming facebook friends (from someone who has a bunch) to just hop into the voting to vote for a crappy looking ship.just give us a little \"mandatory\" pop up to vote upon login (paid accounts only) with the proper voting options and maybe even an abstain option."
"anyone else notice how ccp and possibly the csm are totally ignoring the mass of complaints on this? so anyone one facebook can vote, and the thousands of eve players who aren't can not? fail and insulting."
"1.0"
"i am upset that 4chan, reddit, and youtube members aren't allowed to have their own spaceship contests.edit: also please add a contest for huluplus subscribers"
"/signed seems very stupid if u don't get alot of money from facebook."
"i totally agree. i have absolutely no desire to use social networking sites."
"facebook must go!"
"facebook isn't for everyone"
"/signed facebook has more trojans than a condom factorythus i will never sign up"
"yes yes a thousand times yes."
"omg, this! this is an excellent idea! blasters and rails would finally have a deadly and totally unique niche that no other weapon system can claim! full support from me!"
"1.0"
"give us stuff to fill a hitchhiker's guide to the eve galaxy with."
"the only thing i think destroyers need is about 20% more cap and 5% greater cap regen..may be slightly variable across races as the cap on the catalyst sucks really badly.."
"imo the coercer is the only one that needs a buff one exsta mid slot please. i mean its ment to be a frig killer but how dose it kill frigs if it can't hold it down?i think what you said is a great idea but insted of removing 2 high slots just remove one high slot and put it in the place that it is needed the most for said ship.scorpionidae edit: forgot to thumbs up."
"if you do this though then you remove the best low end salvager in the game. why not just change them to be a mini noctis with reduced bonuses?personally i did all of my lvl 1 missions in a destroyer and had no problems at all with lvl 1 missions. i only ever had problems with three of the soe missions."
"yup."
"lone or pairs of logistics would stop, instead get groups of 5-10 logistics repping large gangs. remote repping does indeed need to have a penalty more than flagging. docking or jumping is too easy. they should be keeping range (logistics cruisers have 70km range) and then warping out if need be, like the ewar cruisers."
"bump for great justice"
"just guessing that the incentive would be to fly from moon to moon and not sit on one moon for the next hour just come back latter."
"supported!"
"supported! hell i thought players already made them lolz"
"supported."
"signed. ccp has been working for this anyway with doing pi, trying to make everything player built."
"yes i support my own ideals"
"after your changes rails would still suck... alot.blasters would be edging close to working though.imorails really need more alpha, dps and less cap use to work as snipers.blasters with the above changes could probably do with a smidge more damage on the medium and large versions, like 5%.change the ammo to make it abit more complex atm only cnam, null, spike and now void are worth using."
"while the reload and change ammo speeds are annoying. the only reason blaster boats are considered crap is because you dont have speed to get on people in a timely fashion. is gallente the only ones with this prob? torps run 30-50km. so not caldari. minnie obviously not. amarr? absolutely! why dont they seem to have a problem? scorch omgwtfpwn.want to fix blasterboats? fix null to be like scorch. such that while at range we are doing good damage and when we get close we quickly can switch to void or antimatter. then the problem goes away."
"not a good solution. rails need serious medical attention, blasters are just bad atm. only solution i think for rails is to make their damage on par with beams. while tracking is worse, their range is better. horrible alpha but not bothered about that.blasters need a swift 25% tracking buff and 10% buff to raw damage.ammo needs to be reworked somehow. perhaps a tiny bit of damage type mixing, bit of explosive in some types. at the moment, blasters never used anything except antimatter. maybe weaker ammo types increase optimal and falloff."
"like i said in the op this is about the hybird weapon system not the ships they go on. that needs to be handled semi-seperatly becouse omg hybirds go on caldire ships too and not just gal. omg no way dude not caldire ships there missils lmao"
"just wondering why you would want to make make rails damg on par with beams and make there tracking worse. that would still lower dps when using rails and just make them a poor verson of beams. i was shooting for hitting more offten with rails with out inc alph because alph is projectiles and with out trying to make them do the same dps as beams becouse thats a beams thing. the trade off is ships with rails would be a tad better off in mid and close range combat with rails when you get caught flat footed. your blast changes are not bad other then on paper right now blasters do more dps then any other weapon system so 10% more raw damage mite not be forthcoming. the tracking buff and signature resolution buff will help greatly in makeing the blasters hit more often geting more of there already high dps on target. i'm not against ammo changes. for starters i do belive they should be lighter but damage type mixing at least to me is kind of steping on projectiles area."
"noincrease speed of all blaster ships beyond that of minmatar increase tracking and damage of blasters by 50%increase dps (not alpha) of railguns by 50%if the deimos is as good as the adrestia is right now then blasters have been successfully fixed"
"lol overpowered much."
"the true hybirds are passerine birds in the family gunnerae underpoweridius. they are predominantly seed-eating songbirds. most are native to southern regions, but one subfamily is endemic to wormholes, one to the outer reach, and one subfamily  monotypic at genus level  is found only in the vale of the silent. the scientific name gunnerae underpoweridius comes from the latin word gunnerae for the 825mm hybird (hybirdus maximus)  a member of that last subfamily  which is common in gallente space.many birds in other families are also commonly called \"railguns\", including some species in the very similar-looking waxbills or estrildid hybirds (family gunnerae, subfamily weakerus) of the old world tropics and australia; several groups of the bunting and amarr hybird family (emberizidae); and darwin's hybirds of the galapagos systems, which provided evidence of natural selection and are now recognized to be peculiar teenagers (herpus derpus).some species are being imported or smuggled into other empires and sold as exotic pets.by the way, the op is a troll."
"how about before we get too far with expansions, someone works on improving account security!a friend of mine was hacked less than a week ago and he recieved very little back after getting his account back.i understand the eula, but with many of us having long term characters ( over 3 yrs+ ), account security must be on the top of our lists.it hurts when someone has been playing a long time and leaves becouse all the money they have invested is thrown away by a hacker taking control of an account. its not just the isk, but if you lostr a carrier, dread or mothership, how long does it take to rebuild or get enough isk back to rebuy and refit? people are leaving eve becouse of this... not the hacker so much but the lack of understanding. maybe we need insurance against hacking in game.. you pay for insurance, you get hacked, insurance pays back what you had prior to the dt before the hack.there must be a way of improving our security as this seems to be the worst game i have been part of lately when it comes to account security.i am no pc expert, i am a player. but what about...1. authenticator system2. max password trys (3?)3. email notification of fraudulant activity?4. etc"
"i would think now would be the time for them to come out with a authenticator system. why? becouse there sending us to facebook to get are pc's infested with spy ware and virus just so we can vote on a ship lolz"
"given the amount of work that can be erased by a hacker in a handful of minutes, i agree eve needs to step it up on security. even wow has better security than eve, for crying out loud. given the volatile nature of the game and it's cut-throat attitude toward gameplay, an authenticator token really is needed. i'd be willing to up to $50 usd upfront for one, if one token can be linked to multiple accounts. come on, ccp, get with the last decade and introduce authenticator tokens already. melantari - how bad was the loss?"
"10's of billions i believe, and has probably caused the closure of a corp seing it was the ceo"
"i'd be mad if i got hacked and not reimbursed.i play wow as well, i was recently hacked on my account there, it ended in my entire guild being closed down, and everything sold and lost. at least they reimbursed me everything, with no cost to me. that includes my gold, my items, and my gear.if blizzard can do that, ccp can too."
"account 'hacking' in eve is rarely anything of the sort. it is done through phishing.you will have received an email to a website asking for you to login. this may appear very authentic. once logged in, it may forward you to the real eve site or just say thanks. then they login with your details and have their way with you.problem is between screen and chair i'm afraid. stupid users."
"while i agree with this part of your post, that's not a reason not to add in additional (optional) security measures.+1 for an authenticator type system."
"i do agree with this, it is a problem b/t screen and chair, but the fact of the matter is, if it does happen, ant it is a legit case, there should be better ways to reimburse and fix the problem. i don't foresee myself being hacked on eve any time in the near or distant future, but ***t does happen, and ccp should be prepared to make amends in the event that it does.it all comes down to customer service, long term players are targets, they've put much time and money into this product, and when they quit playing because ccp doesn't have a way to make them want to come back is ridiculous to say the least.i mean, i understand yes, it is my fault, i clicked the site, i logged in, i'm an idiot, but the first time it happens, slap me on the wrist and tell me not to do it again, don't say, oh, here's a little bit back, enjoy, and leave it at that."
"the current cost of a wardec is apparently 50m isk per week. to a corp/alliance that is pocket change. this amount should be changed to be 500m isk so that it is a cost that a corp/alliance would think about twice and wouldn't just use the wardec as a griefing opportunity."
"50 mil to me is a fair price.getting out of wardecs is easy.24 hrs to wardec=24 hrs to set new ceo=24 hrs to get all members out=24 hrs to get into a new corp=whats the point of wardecs anyways?"
"there really needs to be a defined goal to wardecs. as it is, they are little more than bribing concord to look away."
"wardecs are a bribe to concord. bribes happen in real life, just like they do in eve, lol. that is the nature of this game."
"no there doesn't and they are bribes of a sort. you can limit your wardecs to any reasons you want, but ccp shouldn't start to dictate what reasons are or aren't good enough for a wardec. at best you could argue for a system where the target has a chance to bid against the wardeccing corp for continued concord protection."
"final edit.bleh, i like the range thing."
"the way i would like to see this is. remove local but add in a pos mod that gives a local to the owning corp allance and remove local only in null sec.this would give a real home field advantage. and add to the metagameing in spys are even more worthy."
"the idea of completely removing local from lowsec/null is an idea that i have always supported"
"also, i need to have one of those 0.0 space stations (or whatever it's called). and my own titan for which i only will need about 24 hours to train for and build. and i want them without buying from another player, kthxbai. omf***, please tell me this person is not a member of csm. whatever, go ahead, remove the bpos. remove the long skills. remove 0.0 space where people can kill you and steal your stuff because they have been playing the game since 2006. remove anything that would give one player an economical advantage over another player. remove every bit of eve culture and eve history and make endgame accessible to a 12-year old that just logged in.oh, and add some elves and pets as well. happy new year everybody!"
"this time i will support just for kicks"
"i think that only reduces the earnings of moon mining. in less your implying in some round about way that all real t2 bpo owners also own all the right moons too?edit: and if they realy wish to remove the bottle neck on moon mins just let moon mining happen every were. high sec and wormholes."
"you couldnt be more wrong. invention is a risk-free activity compared to producing from a bpo. those are a huge risk to acquire, since you have no way to predict what the bpo is worth in 12 months.apart from a stockpile of items you already produced (which affects bpo owners just the same), you are completely independent from changes in item value.just image you'd have invested in a heavy nosferatu bpo prior to the nerf... thats right, you could have just given that isk to the first triple-your-isk spammer in jita.not supported."
"there's an idea a co-csm member of mine came up with, and though he used it to manipulate the market, i think it does have some merit. why not set all t2 bpos at -8 me/pe and allow them to be researched up to -3 max. that'll put them on par with invention, and still allow the people to make some money (no need for datacores or the other headaches of invention).personally, i don't mind the t2 bpos the way they are (and no, i don't own any). however, if there is to be a solution, this seems like the most viable one."
"i'd like to see this idea, sentry drones being tractorable for the sake of picking them up quicker. heck, i wouldn't mind if they came \"offline\" (forced into passive or something) while in tractor and then back to normal when the tractor is off."
"i would like everything to open in seperate windows.currently map and pi opens in the main eve window, thus in front of your ship, but in back of all other open windows.this is very annoying. one has to close/minimize all other open windows to view map or pi.i know you can close all windows with shortcut, but you still have to open them again seperately.thus i would like map and pi (and any other future stuff) to open in a seperate windows and not on the eve main background.hope csm could bring this to the attention of ccp."
"change tower forcefield mechanics by adding new settings.allow a setting that would keep pilots below a certain alliance/corp standing from being allowed inside the forcefield regardless of if they have the pos password. this could also be used to allow pilots above a certain standing access without having to hand out an easily stolen password.this would increase the safety that is meant to be provided by pos forcefields since passwords are of very little security in eve when it comes to large groups/alliances."
"i propose a change to wardec mechanics. similar to how it's 50mil x number of wars active. how about also add in 50mil x number of sov systems the alliance controls. the idea being, if you have sov systems, people wanting to damage that alliance should rather be going out to their sov systems to mess with the alliance. ofcourse the change isnt exactly barring them.the change though would cost the aggressor like 2.5bil to wardec say goons or solar. now the new change would create an effect that people who hate to be wardecced would now be looking to get out to 0.0 to take a couple systems to get some more protection from wardecs. suddenly there are giant increase of people in 0.0 trying to take systems. large increase of competition in holding sov systems makes those large vast alliances to shrink.basically... wars then are setup are then most likely against people who are actually in empire."
"careful, i made this very suggestion and the amount of emo rage tears from the super power blocks was overwhelming.but yeah, pos jump bridges are one of the cancers that is ****ing this game over."
"removing pos jump bridges would still leave titan jump bridges in the game, so the smaller aliances would find themselves at a disadvantage. so while i agree that in principle movement of large fleets shouldn't be so easy, i don't think that removing jb's is a fair way to deal with the problem.there are other options - give jb's a cooldown period so that you can't move hundreds of ships through them in a second. stop capitals from using jump bridges too."
"i agree maybe removing jump bridges would be a bit extreme, but they need a change, weather its like the one suggested above that only alliance members can use the jump bridge, but move fleets around so easily is not good for the game.i would be happy to remove both titan and jump bridges, but any change that stopped people being able to cover so much space so easily would be welcomed."
"ok you havent read or understood what i said about the pos that would hold sov, if someone shot it, you wouldnt lose sov, your pos would be reinforced like any other pos, then if its destroyed after it comes out of reinforced mode then you would lose sov. this would still give you plenty of notice to form a fleet and defend your home. this would hopefully encourage more pvp and at a smaller scale so hopefully more fun for both sides and allow others the actual chance to take and hold sov and stop bigger alliances holding more space than they need.the simple fact with probing is it is too simple and totally takes out a valid pvp tactic, and like you said it is sad that the only pvp fleets today are high buffer, high ehp ships with as many logistics as you can get. i prefer close range fights and small roaming gangs but i also understand and see that sniping has virtually been removed from the game, what harm would it do if it was slightly harder to probe ships so quickly? all that would happen is that we would get another valid fleet tactic for pvp and that cant be a bad thing can it?"
"i agree with this. a timer after each ship would be good, say a minute, but may result in small gangs having to wait 10 minutes for their friends to get through. sov needs to be changed somehow to make it possible for the small 100-200 man alliances to nibble up the worse space at the edges. alliances should be focused in small areas, developing it and using it at all times.probing... i think the new probing system is far far better than the old. previously i just drop probes, go afk and come back to see if the target has fled or not. now its interactive, i constantly persue the target with my probes.i do agree that perhaps its too easy to get warp in on people on grid, but the probe is more that long rage bs fleets are going unsupported. really they should have logistics and smaller support. i'm not a fan of lr bs fleets though. they just sit at a distance, aligned and warp at first sign of trouble - i prefer the close range brawl."
"my proposal is to bring that very same thing to all the empire and npc stations. allow people to go around and attack the station services to disable them with no reaction from faction navies or anything. it just gives everyone in the system the right to attack. moreover, there needs to be additional services disablable such as agent comms. i think this would be a hilariously funny thing. mission runners and everyone would want them not destroyed but people can go around doing great disruption."
"go ahead and do this, but make sure the people shooting the stations get shot up by concord. aint gonna happen."
"0/as it stands, the bellicose, intended to be a gang support cruiser, is the most rarely used matari cruiser. while the other races share the same cruiser concept, the ewar that caldari, gallente, and amarr bring to the table are significantly more potent in both power and flexibility of encounters and fleet composition, these being jamming, sensor damping, and tracking disruption respectively. therefore, i propose that the painting bonus currently on the bellicose be swapped to a less potent version of extended web range that it's tech ii variants rely on.this would accomplish several things;-it would make the bellicose much more usable in fleets and solo.-it would allow pilots training to use a rapier or huginn a chance to practice while flying a bellicose.-it would make matari pilots more useful as an ewar fleet option, rather than automatically discounting matari ewar.thoughts/discussion/flames below!"
"supportedsmall change but it would help."
"this has been voiced over and over and should really be easy to implement, but ccp never managed to get around to do this..there was plenty of feedback along those lines the last time ccp touched the scanning interface.i think the only change that finally made it (besides ccps own favoured changes in the probes scanning f/x cause it was crippling fps) was the button-location-move of the [destroy probes] icon from next to [recover probes] one over.if i remember correctly this took them around 6-12 months.tl;dr don't hold your breath"
"yeah...if the probe arrows aren't blending into the background, they are effectively hidden by the \"horizon shadow\". oh oops, i have to look from below now, not from above... just paint the probe graphics neon green or something."
"1.0"
"to be fair, that argument isn't valid. because, in a manner of speaking, you would be saying that armor repairers and shield boosters are a reason resists shouldn't be in."
"the problem with 'cap protection' is that unless the capacitor of the target can be depleted to 1% or less, the ship can effectively use most modules. on larger ships, 5% cap might not be enough for some modules, yes, but they aren't dead in the water either. the point of a neuts aren't to reduce the enemy cap some, but to hopefully reduce it to none...making the ship an easier target.if you make it where ships can 'maintain' a certain amount of cap, you effectively render cap-warfare modules useless.now if you were to propose a boost to cap-rechargers or similar modules on certain ships, or the ability to fit a single capacitor bonus module (effectively give up a slot for more cap stability) then maybe it'd be ok...except we have these things called rigs, cap boosters, and others that do this already.as it stands cap related modules are fine. there are various threads on balancing neuts and nos though. amarr do get the short end of the stick when it comes to cap, but you'll notice that cap-warfare is also their specialty. they are far from being obsolete in battle, pvp or pve, but like each race require their own kind of fitting and handling to ward off threats such as neuts...or at least out-last them."
"being an active tanker with lasers... i do understand the hurt. problem with neuts isn't just that they drain you down to 0 - but once there, you can't get back out. when the cap drops below the sweet spot, your recharge is completely nerfed. it's not difficult to keep a ship at critical cap once it's down there, even if they turn off all their modules. you may be able to squeeze off a few half-hearted laser shots, but... a drained ship is pretty much dead. i never really liked the inevitability of neuts. most ewar can, if not be countered, at least be waited out. neuts can't be waited out. once they get you, you are gone.not sure what to do about it though, if anything.in the meantime... i guess we have to pack vampires and boosters.i suppose the problem could be affected by moving the sweet spot for cap recharge from 30% to 0%. it'd mean you can get more modules to kick in between the neuts. that's a major change though and removes quite a bit from the game. not so sure i'd be willing to support that, even though i usually am flying amarrian ships..."
"this exactly."
"you'd only be getting your possible recharge window if the attacker is so daft as to cycle all his neuts at the exact same time. when spaced out a bit over time, you'll never get your cap back in as long as you're still neuted -- as it should be."
"what you are asking for is an energy neutralizer/vampire nerf. if you have a cap problem, then put a cap booster on your ship. ccp should not even consider nerfing any electronic warfare right now except ecm."
"why should they nerf ecm? instead of putting a cap booster on your ship, fit eccm."
"yep"
"eve is an odd game of unintended consequences. even though neither gallente ships nor hybrid weapons have received any direct nerfs in the last two years, they lag significantly behind projectiles and lasers in the current environment.i contend that part of the reason for this is the interaction between webs, microwarpdrives, and scrams. prior to the nano nerf, webs made the target 90% slower. scrams didn't affect microwarpdrives, which continued to function, though signature radius was still a factor.after the web nerf, a scrammed and webbed ship goes about 4x faster...but cannot benefit from a microwarpdrive. this seems about equal, until you remember that the ship in question is not subject to the signature bloat that a microwarpdrive imposes.the result is that ships which upon close range turrets (such as blasters) and 90% webs now struggle to hit their targets, because their targets are no longer subjected to the signature bloat of their microwarpdrives. this needs to be addressed.i propose one last change to microwarpdrives: ships equipped with a microwarpdrive should experience a partial signature bloat when targeted with a warp scrambler (but not warp disruptor). i tentatively suggest a 100% increase in signature radius under this effect.while this won't address any issues of actually getting into range, it assures that when a blaster ship tackles its target, it will be able to apply the damage."
"not supported. the much better solution is to reduce signature resolution on hybirds by 10% and inc. hybirds tracking by 20%. this makes hybirds differnt from other gunnery weapon systems and makes them usefull. right now they just have all the drawbacks of both projectials and lazers with nothing specal about them."
"you realize that signature resolution is just tracking in disguise, right? you just proposed a 33% tracking buff. now, if you want to boost tracking by 33%, that's fine -- go ahead and make a separate proposal -- but don't disguise it with changing the signature resolution, which is standardized among all turrets."
"adding a static effect similar to that of a tp might work for blasters, but it also works for everything else and probably better than that which it is intended for.imagine rocket boats if this was done. or s/m pulse/ac boats for that matter.tweaking blasters is a matter of adjusting their attributes, not making sweeping changes that substitute an ewar module and makes large hull >>> small hull.giving them a +15-20% increase to damage mod and boosting the straightline speed of the blaster ships or similar changes are much more likely to solve the blaster problem and doesn't require a massive balancing effort to repair the damage afterwards."
"your argument for the change was that specifically hybrids are underpowered. now you want to buff all turrets?also, users of mwd are already penalized, no need to increase that. rip miner is correct, buffing hybrid tracking (or make hybrid ammo influence tracking like was suggested in a proposal a while ago) is a cleaner solution."
"not hidding it. it's not tracking it will not work with tracking mods and it makes up for some of the signature problems your posting about with out adding dps to every weapon system in the game like your wanting to do."
"i do like the ideal of hybird ammo influence tracking but thats just riping off of projectial weapon system. i suggested what i did in order to make hybirds differnt for the other two gunnery systems. hell if it was up to me i would also change there reload/load time to 5 sec just to be differnt as well. but thats me lol"
"its not the same. reduced signature increases accuracy against all ships, but no change for larger. increased tracking affects everything."
"urgh, no. the misconception that sig res is different from \"tracking\" comes up every week and is wrong every time. i have no idea where it comes from.sig resolution is just \"tracking speed\" by another name."
"at this point it is very good to remember the suggested \"problem\" doesn't only concern blasters but all weapons.blaster ships seem to kill stuff just fine to me. not being able to wtfbbq everything with megathron isn't main problem we have here in my opinion. just to give an example even autocannons have problems hitting small stuff using afterburner even if they were webbed and i am still not sure if it's a problem."
"quite right. i speculate that it has to do with explosion radius being capped in its comparison to signature radius in the missile damage formula. indeed, turret signature resolution is just a disguise tracking modifier."
"how would said change interact with missile boats? if you can demonstrate that it will not be a huge boost to missiles and throw that mechanic out of balance, you have my support. that said, it would make all frigates running mwds easy picking for all missile ships; a heavy missile has an explosion radius of 125m. hitting, say, a rifter with a heavy missile will do much less damage, receiving a large reduction, around 60%ish, from having a small sig radius without counting speed. now, with an mwd turned off, the same rifter will take only 30%ish reduced damage from said missile, in effect increasing damage against small mwd touting targets with these missiles by about 12-18%. this is, i believe, a serious problem =d"
"voting against. current system works fine. take some risk and go get it yourself."
"i agree that is the risk you have leaving stuff in a null sec station. that is why i always stored my assets in a container anchord right next to the pos gun batteries.on a side note i do however think that jump clones should have a remote self destruct due to the fact that you cannot sell or have them moved. not to mention if your jc is killed on the way out it consumes your medical clone instead of putting you back into your body."
"not supported. that's the risk you take for living in 0.0 and not paying attention when your alliance is going to loose a station system. there are multiple reinforcement timers which allow you ample time to get your stuff out.also, even if you can't get in a station, if you have items in there you can still sell them to the locals on contract or using the remote trade skills."
"well, in this case you'd get the equivalent of a level 1 mission from your level 4 agent... with the same rewards.ofc, using a l1 agent and sitting in a golem will get you.. a level 1 mission.i like the idea of intelligent agents, of course, though i don't run missions. ofc, even if you set yourself 'neutral', prompting solely pirate faction missions (for your faction - empire enemies if running for pirates, ect) you'll still take that faction hit every time your core faction standing goes up, regardless."
"as far as your smarter agents, i don't think so. for your neutrality, while i really like this idea, it isn't likely to happen. this game rewards thinking, so if you constantly blast the living daylights out of the opposing empire factions, you are gonna be hunted by them. anyways, you get the nice tag isk, so there's a compensation.don't get me wrong, i hate anti-faction missions and wish they would be shifted over to fw, but it isn't likely to happen. agents loyal to a given faction are gonna have you destroy the opposing faction sometimes as well as the pirates.not supported."
"and a level 4 storyline every 60 minutes."
"my first post may have been asking for too much, i guess what it boils down to is just make it so you dont loose standing for declining faction missions. as for currior missions why not have the agent just scan your cargo and if you dont have enough you can freely decline.the bigest issue is the 3 hour delay and the 2.5x standing loss for deslining missions if you are running a blitz you will in the end loose more standing than you make unless you have multiple agents"
"definately supporting this."
"easily supported. its not like ud make much harm from it"
"i would rather see all jump clones removed and new implant set mechanic introduced where you can install new implant set every x hours on station, with no limit for number of sets. infomorph whatever skill could reduce cost or time limits etc.regardless current system annoyingly limits the way you can use implants. if nothing else at least lets have more jump clones, even though it's not best way.supporting basic idea concerning implants."
"i agree with everything you said except that i do not think that a bunch of new skills be made. only a single skill need be made, called bounty hunting. its prerequisites must be tough though. social v and ded connections v or something like that. also, the skill could be high rank, so its not an easy train to lvl 4"
"/not supportedi myself am unemployed at the moment and thus spend alot of time on eve. this would make it so that it punishes me for spending time mining or just relaxing chatting or handling corp business.crud just realized i didn't post with my mainmain is icewolfdw"
"ideas like this are why ccp goes to the assembly hall when they want some laughs.tl;dr op proposes stupid mechanic that would only penalize legitimate players."
"i second this one. sometimes i dont play for weeks or even months and sometimes i spend all bloody weekend on. i do not wish to be limited for what i have already payed rl cash for."
"i could do this. if its just on plex. but thats going to devalue plex alot and rmt wins"
"a good question de'veldrin which illustratesyour understanding of the differences between assembledand packaged ships in the item database. however it also illustrates that you didn't read the original proposal that says this information need not be preserves when the ship is packaged. i bet the registration number couldnbe generated on demand by hashing the primary key of the item table."
"there's simply no reason to implement something like this that isn't fairly pointless and/or rather silly."
"you need to bring more then 'spotting' and 'killboard tracking'.those uses are slim and not worth the implementation effort imho.the repackaging problem/solution also invalidates the use of this for the often voiced wish for manufacturer labelled ships."
"you are absolutely correct. i missed that in the op. my apologies."
"this is the smallest and easiest thing to implement from a more extensive set of ideas i've been bouncing around. registration number and assembly date (and perhaps the name of the pilot who asssembled the ship) are all likely to be easy options compared to more extensive changes.really unless you want the entire ship market to move to contracts the idea of manufacturer's names being attached to ships isn't happening."
"i see no reasion what so ever that prevents you from making your avatar in the normal creator and using the incarna creator for your station avatar so what if the porterate looks a bit off from your avatar it wouldn't be all that hard to keep the origional char images and just let them make a incarna model seperatly. the players keep their identities and have more options for creating a character portrate and the people who want to use the wis function can make somthing that looks close enough to get by without having to redo the entire damn thing."
"no."
"i support the implementation of the authenticator assuming that you can register it with multiple accounts. i have used these in the past and it helps a lot. the main issue that i can foresee is a lot of us create our accounts here on the eve online site and thus don't have a hard printout of anything that is individualistic (ex. a product key) so that if you loose your authenticator (or misplace it) where ccp would be able to verify that you are the appropriate individual that has legal custody of the account."
"what a great post....i hate jita anyways.... ugh, jita..."
"signednot signed. thats exactly the reason why i dont care if macroes dies along with bots."
"considering the whole new eden background stuff the limited options currently are seriously weak. not even speaking about some deep-immersion rpg concerns (which i don't have) here. but seriously...wtf ccp? for pod pilots who spend the majority of their time in some goo that is not tanning lotion to my knowledge? don't tell me by genetic engineering all humans now have a natural tan (why they'd even want it...)? serious brainfart, this... yeah, noone ever can change their hair color in new eden, right... i mean, restricting unecessarily stuff like that... what kind of reasoning is behind that? such a basic thing as hair color choices... it's not like we have a medieval setting mmo here, ccp, do we?and how is this supposed to be a merely cosmetic change? these days it does not determine your start in the eveverse any more which race/bloodline you pick and what skills you start with, true. but this should not really be a justification to simply eliminate a couple of those. i mean, if i had wanted to look like \"mr. achura centerfold\", i could have picked it at char creation back in the day. i think this is seriously limiting identfication patterns with the character and thus not a good move in terms of customer content. and yes, this are all \"minor\" points in the great scheme of things (none impacting the spaceship flying by itself), but the trend is simply wrong. if ccp gimps as simple a thing as a continuity of the look of the avatar some people have been rolling for years with... and i'm not talking about some minor change in nose angle or something. it's basically looking like some avatars will be totally impossible to even remotely being recreated. it can hardly be a technical issue, it's not like development has backpedaled on this, has it? at least they should keep the same detail/options level as it used to be, not step back to a mid-last decade level of char/avatar design."
"i just tested the new creator and came up with somthing that looks like a mutated gengas kahn with down syndrome. not to mention the complete lack of black or really dark brown hairbiggest issue is that facial decorations are missing the funky gallente visors. the amarrian viels. the caldari metal plates. replaced with .... brutor sun glasses ??? what the **** ccp give us back our ... i cant belive i am saying this *shudder* give us back our bling"
"i was bouncing this of a few people.what if concord didn't necessarily respond to just every attack?if you are in an npc corp you can't be wardecced, but you have to pay tax. concord always responds to players in npc corps because those corps pay concord plenty of isk to do so.what if it was that if you are in a player corp, you had to pay concord a fee (per month or what not for them to help you, perhaps several levels of protection, like you pay them more if you want them to respond to attacks against corp members by other members). if you didn't pay concord a fee concord won't intervene but, the local navy will, like at a gate and what not. the fee should be cheaper than npc tax, since players corps can still be wardecced, but enough so that interesting changes will take place.i'm sure a lot of people will hate this, but i am just throwing it out there, just an idea of sorts. perhaps someone like this could be applied to the local channel as well.edit: the middle portion was about extending this concord protection (to player corps) into low sec to varying degrees (what i don't know). basically player corps will be forced to pay to safely or somewhat safely operate in low sec. regardless of how pirates may feel, this will definitely increase low sec populations. being in a player corp will now become a huge advantage. though i do acknowledge something would have to be done to make sure danger and risk are still omnipresent."
"how about something simple like being able to bribe agents."
"i like it but there also needs to be somthing based on skill points so that you cant just buy the isk"
"drafts of minutes for almost all meetings have been completed, and the ones that haven't are just hanging fire on getting some materials from ccp. ccp should start their review and comments on 1/3/11 -- how long after that the minutes are released depends on the response.we would have liked to get them out faster, but realistically, the holidays do put a crimp in the time available by people to work on this."
"i hate christmas!!!"
"hypothetically, if i was a csm candidate, what would you do?"
"shut up i love masternerdguymasternerdguy for csm!"
"@opi liked your other posts more, where you picked a very controversial point of general interest and tried to get reactions as a kind of comedian/joker.if you could stick to one per every other odd day and play devils advocate, you'd even achieve somethi"
"vote for you with my 7349573945739859385 chars then get confused why you never got in :("
"id be outraged that tom gerard didn't get in"
"ffffffffuuuuuuu-although a csm consisting entirely of forum trolls might be fairly amusing actually. imagine it; the likes of tom gerard, masternerdguy, lana torrin, frog0ut, and lady spank, all sat together in a room and with a stakeholder say in the future of this game...*shudder*"
"actually spank and lana might not be too bad, in person. they at least don't post too many ideas that would flat out destroy the game."
"somebody would get stabbed less than five minutes in."
"yeah by me probably, i ****ing hate trolls."
"**** no."
"so all the best people in eve in one room making changes? best csm ever"
"i contest this nomination and throw my own name int the mix. i would make a far better csm as i have intricate knowledge of the game and i am a far more personable character than nerd. schalac for csm."
"hide in a corner and sob uncontrollably"
"not vote for you?"
"i would not vote for you sorrygo cat!"
"a. stand upb. walk out on youc. pod you with a little help from my friends"
"who wants my stuff ?"
"kill you. twice. just because i think you are the most insipid idiot i have ever ran across on the eve forums."
"i can safely say i wouldn't giving a flying ****csm is a joke already"
"i would sub up all my alts again to vote so you could fly to iceland and confirm what everyone already knows.that the csm is a ccp marketing ploy that literally doesn't influance ccp to do a single thing they didn't already plan on doing.all the rest is just material to farm out to gaming sites and for our lulz enjoyment on the forums when the mintutes are posted."
"i would probably spend the rest of my life in deep contemplation trying to figure out how on gods green earth anybody could think you would be in any way shape or form useful as a csm. i would probably give up after about 5 years into it and submit myself to a mental institute after realizing that there is no hope for humankind."
"so no one voted for you?"
"cry."
"he seems to have it spot on what the csm is. really, what have they done? they have done so much that i didn't even care to know that anyone actually follows what they do anymore until nerds post. csm is a joke. always have been always will be. they do look good though on that mmo blog portraying how ccp listens to the customer. yet year after year the corp interface still sucks. the ov still sucks. everything that the \"customer\" finds out to be good gets nerfed.... yeah... the csm rocks ... right..."
"i wouldn't do anything. who are you?c."
"probably id quit eve"
"moved from general discussion"
"i personally am in favor of an overview overhaul. if overview settings were redesigned to be less, how shall i put it, \"baroque\", the overview would probably be a lot faster, and thus there might be headroom for some useful additions."
"any topics about drone implants?next patch they are introducing 6% missile and gun implants and still no imps for drones."
"i agree that there is a problem here. nearly 100 pages of thumbs point in this direction.i don't get the big deal about putting a big bunch of new code into a so called expansion on a specific date, all at once. couldn't there be a more dynamic approach? when a team is ready to go live with a project can't they just put up a patch to include the new content... when it's ready? the bigger changes could still be marketed as the shiney, new expansion. the smaller changes could be patched as needed. i would rather download a content patch than a repair patch. this way projects don't have to add their code to the heap until they're ready. or is this a problem in that programmers, like artists, are never finished with their work? maybe they could put up a page that shows the approximate readiness of each project in % or man-hours or something to keep us anxiously waiting subscribers from popping an implant from frustration and maybe keep the employees on track.i'm sure it's difficult to get such a creative bunch to work on mundane tasks or re-work old code when they have so many new ideas they prefer to work on. this is what good management is about though, isn't it?i could also see a use for questionairs to get a better understanding of what pilots use/don't use/would like to use more but don't because it's broke or not what they were expecting. possibly put in a pop-up on log-in that asks a pertinent question regarding a feature in question as well as a link to a full page of probing questions. generally try to discover where the frustration factors are for users to be used to retain current users. i have quit eve 2 or 3 times out of frustration. eve has a very powerful base of loyal fans that i doubt dust will ever have. i've seen many businessed fail for underestimating this loyalty factor. csm has become a good step in the right direction in this regard.i know you, ccp, have a direction you wish to go. keep up the good work. i only ask that you strive to find a good balance between fresh content and where we've come from.whew! i feel better, now... back to lurking about."
"yep."
"when in siege, dreads are stationary, so the ability of capital guns to track them is not an issue. do you think this bonus would be necessary for dreads not in siege mode?no damage reduction occurs until dreadnought sig radius goes below the bomber explosion radius of 2.25km. that's still low enough to mitigate 85% of the damage from an anti-supercap torp with a 15km explosion radius."
"oh my goodness... almost 200 replies and only 35 votes for this idea. i think it is safe to say this idea is bad. don't feel bad honey, you tried your best and that is what matters. so, stop bringing this back to the top and it is time to flush this ok?- <3 toffee stunner"
"it is a good idea and your immature gloating doesn't change that fact.anyone with a brain can understand the supercarriers are too good against sub-caps and that's not their role."
"oh my goodness, a replier that hasn't read any of the thread he is ridiculing vast majority are actually in favour of capital rebalance, we just bicker about how to go about it.so fear not, you get to fly your broken sc for a little while longer with no chance of loosing it barring supreme idiocy."
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images.?caldari droneboats are also even worse than gallente"
"this is a huge post now (20+ pages). it has surely been seen by ccp.still nothing from ccp? hmm..i too agree with:"
"i think this accurately reflects the current state of hybrid weapons, and of gallente ships in general.it's nerf, or nothin'."
"bump."
"supported!"
"supercarriers should be larger than carriers, dreads or bs: supportedbutfor the sake of pos/bumping and stuff all ships that are smaller than the supercarrier should be shrinked a bit in order to \"enlarge\" the sc. if you just make sc larger you will run into problems"
"/signedattracting new possible players - oukay, but not allowing actual players without addiction to zuckerberg to vote?!i would have gladly gank the ccp employee for such hilarious idea.fb - fracking bullmeat."
"as a computer security professional i absolutely despise facebook. it's a poorly programmed insecure privacy nightmare that preys on human trust relationships.that ccp is using this website for anything much less a voting mechanism, is patently ridiculous. proposal supported."
"agreed, fb sux les balloons"
"boooooo ccp, boooooooooooooo!!!* crowd throws rotten tomatoes *"
"agreed \"over 9000%!!!\""
"agreed.i also refuse to use facebook, thus cannot vote.any eve related voting should obviously be performed through some ccp mechanism related to the game, inside the game itself or even on the eve forums.and especially not using an outside software which has a proven track record of security flaws[changing settings/opening vulnerabilities without letting users know, appologizing after each time data is leaked out, etc. it's absolutely ridiculous]if ccp wants to attract users through facebook exposure that is fine... but for heavens sake don't make playerbase voting a part of it!"
"+1000 - besides that i don't have a facebook account, and automatically trashcan any emails originating from facebook, ccp has no right to the information you do not provide when subscribing and should not be trying to link facebook profiles to eve person"
"signed! facebook voting is ******ed."
"signed. even though i have a failbook account which i used like 2 days. the fact it also requires one to open up their buddylist etc for promo towards them is just another way to increase spam."
"supported"
"/signed"
"i was going to vote.. but then i saw that i had to use facebook, so i didn't bother."
"+1id like to vote my fav ship but im not going to subscribe a facebook account"
"**** facebook."
"/signedhaving to join a site that would violate my privacy is not acceptable for a simple competition vote when i already have accounts with ccp that could have been used to facilitate this."
"supported"
"1.0"
"supporting the motion."
"."
"failbook is fail (evegate is fail to)everything else was covered in the original post."
"voting with both accounts because i can"
"i am a facebook member but even i have to agree to the fact that not giving more options for paying subscribers to vote on things that will appear in-game is shortsighted by ccp."
"i was slowly regaining my \"trust\" in ccp regarding this competition. but \"forcing\" paying customers to use facebook to vote on possible features for the game i pay to play is like a slap in my face.i don't like social networking sites and i'm not going to sign up on one to vote on a seriousinternetspaceship poll.as allready said in this topic if the account login is good enough for csm elections it's good enough for this contest."
"don<U+FFFD>t go on that failbook ride please"
"supported."
"ccp + failbook = failccp"
"nothing against facebook per se, but the fact that non-eve players can vote renders the whole competition pointless. eve-gate would have been a much more suitable vehicle for this."
"wow im amazed how short sighted people are on this competition!the winners will most likely not end up in the game, ccp's said that its unlikely that any content from this contest would be put into the game for years! and tbh years after this competition no one but the winner will remember about the comment that their content might be included!facebook is being used as a viral form of advertising for eve-online. that is the only reason why! the whole contest is to get people who havent played eve to see that its got a following and 'appears' to support its community, so that they think \"hmm i think i'll try that!\"this contest along with the removal of learning skills is to promote and get people into the game easier and actually have fun in the first 14 days to 2 months of play, so that they carry on. not add a bit of a smile to a small portion of the eve players that likes shaping a miniscule part of the game.now.... you cannot accomplish this by hosting a voting system that only for subbd eve players. sure you can argue about if ccp actually genuinely asked for content from its community and included it then word of mouth will bring in more subs, it already does in certain regards.ccp is a business first and foremost. its size has grown substantially, and because of that its running costs have increased too. this is a way to generate more new player revenue so they can continue at their current size and finish/augment all the new content they've promised.if ur soo annoyed at failbook voting and using it on ur computer, go use sum1 elses to make a fake-ish account or use a cyber cafe ffs."
"why, that's a mite disapppointing. i was under the (common-sense) impression that the winners would see their ship included in the game. otherwise, erm, what's the frakkin' point?!"
"bump for moar feedback!"
"+1, lighten up you miserable ****ers. especially you, vuk lau. you just lost a lot of respect from me.no one was seriously expecting this to happen, all we wanted was a bit of a laugh, but you dullards had to come in with your \"hurf this is srs bsns u gui"
"gief pizza.also, didn't vote for mazz at last csm election, will vote for mazz at next one, sense of humor is preferable to tightly wound knickers"
"funny how that csm conversation turned out, they actually judged the proposal by the topic alone.imagine ccp worked with a fast food chain which was popular in most parts of the world and delivered, if it became common knowledge a person could buy stuff from the chain using isk the game would become more popular.its like a restaurant, you dont make money of the food, you make it of the alcohol, so sell the food and make sure they drink. in eves case food would be plex for pizza which is what will attract alot of players, then when they play eve they will stay careless of if they like or dislike eve.with so many obese people wanting free food, this would be perfect and a cool feature with incarna, i think the csm need to look into this and stop judging a thread literally by its topic.just because blizzard havent done this idea doesnt mean it should be ignored, think out of the box!"
"are you guys actually serious about this?"
"this should go well with incarna. walk into a pizza chain in a station somewhere, place your order and 5 minutes later your door bell rings :d"
"great idea and i think i might save some rl iskys this way to.scorpionidae edit: forgot to clicky the thumbs up buttion again."
"yes minimum need 1 minute docking/jumping delay too for the logis when the pilots using them in the battle and the supported ship aggressing an other ship."
"sounds good"
"during the csm round table this is what korvin sayed this about this issueit will be interesting to see what the minutes of the dec summet have to say about the issue"
"anyone not understanding how stupid these two suggestions are (especially side by side), really shouldn't be commenting on turret changes."
"are you suggesting that hybrids will be op tracking wise, specifically against smaller targets ?i'm not a great eft person so i can only guess that's the direction they would be headed with these 2 changes."
"no, he's stating that anyone suggesting changes to tracking and signature resolution doesn't understand how turret tracking works, and is therefore a singularly bad person to be proposing changes to game balance."
"think i've said this many many times but i'll say it again......the way to fix hybrids is to make them hybrid weapons. this is very difficult (i would say impossible) to do by only changing the weapons stats themselves. the main problems we have are that hybrids are two very diferent weapon systems used by two different races in two different ways and the bonuses and stats on some ships are way off the mark to use hybrids effectively. gallente (blaster) ships should be the fastest straight line ships in the game but with low agility. they basically charge into range but can be easily outmanouvered by some clever piloting. now the weapons themselves..... the answer like i said is to make them hybrids of lasers and projectiles. to do this we have to mess with the ammo as it is the variable of the weapon system. hybrids need ammo that does many things but doesn't change the damage profile from kinetic and thermal. for example..one ammo type will offer low damage with a tracking bonusone ammo type will offer very heavy damage with a rof fire penalty (alpha strike)etc etci've also noticed that there are stats called \"base shield damage\" and \"base armour damage\". is it possible to mess with these stats that the ammo has to create an ammo type that does heavy shield damage but low armour damage and vice versa?"
"ty *goes to re-read how turret tracking works"
"+ 1i really like this idea. it certainly makes hybrids unique. it certainly creates new pvp tactics.i compared rails to autocannons.acs (in every size) have a higher damage modifier, have higher tracking, have better range.that pretty well everything in t"
"you would think something like this ccp would give it a priority"
"adding an authenticator is a great way to stop people sharing accounts.since bobbeh told me that i'm a \"nerf supercarriers\" troll, i feel it is my duty to the denizens of nullsec to insist on authenticators being added to eve online as a compulsory measure to prevent account sharing.if you want supercarriers and titans available 24x7, sign up some oceanic pilots :)nerf titans, buff australia! add compulsory authenticators to eve accounts!"
"mara rinn for csm. vote nao!"
"this is the only posable improvement to wardecs. and another fine isk sink too i think"
"i used to be in a small corperation called rmt research and mining was all we did. politically nutral and since we bought most of the ore from the market we neither made friends or enemies. that didn't stop a random greifing corp from deccing us 3 seperate times but i will not point finger. i am all for raising the wardec price war deccing is somthing that really should only be used as a tool to harrass competing supply lines in highsec durring a long term territory war. and not as a tool for random violance. pirates should move out to low sec where they belong. wardeccers are carebears of piracy they are like the highschool gangsta's who want to push the little kids around the playground and act all tough but are too scared to set foot on the streets where the real gangs roam for fear of stepping on someone's toes"
"yes but how often do you bribe some one , not pay them and then have absolutly nothing come of it. atm most decing that i have seen is a corp declares the dec fights for one or two days, then fails to pay concord and the wardeck is invalidated. i mean the shady guy at concord ant to smart about taking the bribes is he"
"support thisit would help make some of the ganking corps actually think a little bit before wardeccing another corporation. as it is right now, they just wardec whoever, whenever, because the cost is so low. couple guys can make 50m isk in an hour, nevermind a week!personally though, i think the price should scale, although by what metrics i'm not sure. perhaps the best option would be some kind of bidding system? where the wardeccing corporation pays say, 50 million for a week, and then the wardecced corp can cancel it immediately for 50% cost - 25m, then the wardeccing corp can try and push the wardec again, paying say 100m, and continue as such until someone decides that they don't have enough money to push that wardec through.perhaps have a \"buyout\" price set at something very large, like a few billion isk that guarantees the aggressor a week of combat.on the plus side, it could also end up being a massive money sink for the economy, as all this cash just disappears down concord's gaping maw."
"my experience in eve show that corp/alliance leaders are very reluctant to start empire wars. even the hardcore pvp alliances like it never bother with empire wars.to me that's untapped potential. we need to do something to encourage more wars, not less. we need more pvp in empire."
"faction warfarewhat you seem to be advocating - gankers killing carebears in high sec - that can barely be considered pvp as it is. yeah, shooting a bunch of targets who can't fight back, that's really impressive right there. these gankers are just carebear pirates who can't or won't hack it in low/null sec. i certainly wouldn't miss them."
"i support this, but only if ccp provides something a bit less clunky than the d-scanner to use to see if any hostiles/neutrals are entering the system. wh's are one thing, but to have all of space without something that allows for the detection of hostile or neutral players going about wouldn't be a great idea...edit: the above is only for high sec and low sec. didn't see the null sec part, null sec probably shouldn't have local or anything to make up for it...."
"get down there's a sniperalso, i approve of this idea."
"people living in w-space also don't use jump gates. so to make things even let's remove all jump gates from null-sec!"
"i support killing local chat once a replacement that isn't as easy for bots to exploit has been made."
"as someone who made a lot of isk without ever owning a t2 bpo, there is absolutely no reason to remove them that isn't selfish, and every reason to keep them from the perspective of making eve a better place. not supported."
"i am not a member of csm so no worries there. as far as stations and titans go, you actually can get them without buying from another player. i have built a station. and i have lost it as well. it is located in 6-tyrx starsystem in esoteria. i personally know a player who made his own titan. all the way, everything. mined even his own minerals over the past few years. he has got it without having to buy from another player. one day something will go wrong and it will be killed, lost with all the hard work gone into getting it. unlike t2 bpo's that are safe in only safe place there is in eve. in a personal hangar inside a station."
"why the starting -8? if the idea is to put them on par with invented bpc -4 or -3 me/pe without research would be more logic and probably easier to implement than keeping the possibility to research them but capping it."
"it's a hard life for the modern eve pilot. sitting in stations, trading, hiding from wars, being bored all the time... spinning ships is all you have to do. but even that takes work. this should be remedied, and i have just the idea to fix it.ship auto-spin!this toggle option causes the camera to automatically spin the shop, so that you don't need to go through the time-consuming effort of spinning it yourself. options for auto-spin could include a speed setting, determining how fast the ship spins, a toggle for clockwise and counter-clockwise spin, and even a special random-spin option, which quickly turns the camera in a random direction by a random amount, just like a player would do with the mouse. not only does this make the life of the station-sitter much easier, but it keeps them healthier by warding off the scourge of carpal tunnel syndrome. it could also make a handy screen saver!support for this idea means you truly care about the quality and immersion of the eve universe."
"*takes off glasses*mother of god.this is genius./sign"
"not empty quoting."
"i support making eve a much more lazy a place for everyone!signed/"
"tiggy you derp you got the / in the wrong place again."
"i decided to sign with my left hand for a change"
"this is relevant to my interests"
"let's not forget about us pos spinners, we'd love this option too"
"this. i want a way to retrive my senterys after a fight with out having to go all the freaking way back for them lol. no i dont want them to fire just to get back in my freaking drone bay.this should only be posable out side of combat as well."
"+1they should be able to fire while being moved. don't forget:sentry drones suffer badly from tracking / transversal issues.somebody has to sacrifice 5 high slots for this ability."
"so.. does that mean we'll see an ishtar/noctis combo flying around?ishtar deploys sentries, and sets to assist/guard the noctis.noctis happilly tractors them around at 2km/s"
"a brief summary of t2 bpos vs invention:bpo:- build faster (since they can be pe researched)- requires less materials (since they can be me researched)- sensitive to balance changes (hello deimos bpo owners)- expensive to aquire- does not cause rsiinvention:- potentially more profitable since you can invent whatever is most profitable at the time and in far larger quantities.- mostly immune to the balance changes since you're not locked into producing one item type.- reasonably cheap to get into- causes rsimost industrialists will recognise that t2 bpos are more or less balanced from an isk making perspective, but it's fairly clear that the system is unfairly stacked against the wrists of inventers. to remedy this situation i would like to ccp to consider revamping the industry interface so that building from a t2 bpo requires 10-20 times more clicking which should make it roughly equal with invention.alternatively ccp could just fix the industry interface so that invention is less of a click fest."
"i am here and my pitchfork is sharp!i dont think 20 times more cliks would be reasonable though. let's make it so that bpo owners can only build one item at a time. then it's not a \"passive\" income. hey it would be cool - sort of like training short skills before skill que. in a more serious manner i would prefer compete industry interface overhaul with needed changes within some of the fields in industry that are not quite \"working out\" properly, invention vs bpo and more importantly supply side of t2 materials."
"support"
"support"
"support"
"support"
"i rather see an invention buff then a t2 bpo nerf."
"support for a revision of the industry interface, perhaps with ability to build from multiple similar prints as batch jobs.and for the love of goddess, create a post-invention step so i can improve me on bpcs .. makes me feel like i am spending most of my time hauling building materials around."
"very yes"
"no, do not nerf t2 bpo. i don't own one and i disagree that they need to be nerfed"
"not supported.t2 bpo's are assumed to be better by people who think they know what they are talking about.they don't... duh.invention has better odds...and better isk making as far as return on investment go.so very few people actually own t2 bpo's as it is.this is a very bad proposal with very shaky ground.this is no need to nerf a already nerfed system.buff invention? perhaps... as mentioned already... but t2 bpo's should be removed from the game honestly."
"dear sweet zombie jesus, yes.also, lol @ those who didn't bother to read the op."
"why not change the invention mechanic so that for every successful invention there is a small chance that it will create a t2 bpo instead of bpc?"
"the solution to this is a rework of the industrial interface (hello batch job set up. select n blueprints -> right click -> invention -> select lab).not supported."
"/signed but i wish ccp would actually fix thishaving recently made my own little corp and trying to be nrds i discovered it only took 2 weeks or so to max out 300 contacts (9 of which are blue, the rest are reds).ccp - unless you want to make nrds simply impossible, this needs fixing. last i checked, eve was about choice - this is a crippling game mechanic for nrds-ers.and if alliance's can have thousands of contacts, its silly that corporations cant. it just becomes a 1b isk fee for a increased contacts list.maybe even introduce a \"diplomat\" skill that allows players to train up an increased contact list, if you want to minimize the amount of people who want more contacts.but, if the reason really is server load/lag, then a personal local standings file would at least let me limp by. not an ideal solution but so long as i have *something*"
"it seems a lot of recursive looping happenings in standings. they made lowsec lag to death at one stage with fw.generally, if the number of standings needs to be limited....... then the algo that handles them needs to be changed."
"i decided to actually read warfare & tactics and to my surprise the caldari / gallente prop was too delicious (caod can learn a few things from them), i even read ign and they are pretty good posters too, been really enjoying these sub forums a lot.anyway the w&t section has too many things unrelated to fw and i think for fw to attract more attention it should have its own section, i would hardly say this is a major problem.yay / nay?"
"i have no interest either way but seeing as they're working on a new forum they might as well throw this in with it."
"a one minute timer afte each jump wouldnt work, it would just make it frustrating to use jump bridges, i think only people from the same alliance that the jump bridge belongs to is one of the better suggestions but i would rather see them removed but thats personal preference.as for the long range bs needing support, yes they do but in most cases it wouldnt work, you would have to split your gang between snipe bs and support ships, so your damage would be decreased and a drake blob would just jump in, kill your support fleet, probe your snipers warp dictors up to them, at this point your snipers have to either run or die and eithewr way your support gets slaughtered because the hostile fleet didnt need to split their fleet and just all brought the same type and thats how it is today."
"we can lie, cheat, steal and a number of other unmentionables, but we can't have pleasure hub's?"
"what would we do if someone disabled the agent service in motsu.... there would be 500 mission runners fitting rr to their bss to get it back...or the market service in jita... could the server cope with 2k people trying to rep a station simultaneously with drones too...interesting proposition in highsec wardecs... but it's probably too hard to incap a service to make it viable for highsec wardecs."
"i'm sorry, but where is the logic in this suggestion? why would not faction navies react to stations belonging to their corps being shot up? besides, there are no real practical applications for this, save griefing. it really dies right there. how on earth would it help hisec wardecs? the wts will just go to another station in the same system, or to another system. on top of that, the people shooting the station for \"strategical\" reasons will have to deal with neutrals shooting them, along with their wartargets. it helps nobody."
"i support this - but only if you only allow faction militia to do it, and only to their primary opponent (gallente - caldari, amarr - minmatar)'s stations and make it so that the higher the sec status the greater the faction navy's response, ie in a 0.5 a few bses supported by cruisers, frigs turn up, in a 1.0 around 50 bses + lots of support turn up, or something like that. at any rate... would be cool."
"let me just stop you right there.mr edwards, the op, does not deal in logic. he deals in troll. he's well known for it. if you simply assumed that everything thread he posts is a troll thread, you would be better off and waste less of your own time.thank you, you may now continue."
"i want destructible 0.0 outposts.destructible with all stuffs in station hangars."
"one thing that can become rather tedious with in-game communication in eve is the sheer abundance of chat windows you can get piled up over time. the main reason is that they all have to live in a single, horizontal tab, whose name and meaning can easily be blotted out as the line grows.it is possible to remedy this, in part, by having separate windows that hold different categories of chats, but this leads to multi-window management, lots of minimization, accidental closings, and other problems.i therefore propose the following fix:give us the ability to activate an uncloseable window (which can be closed by explicitly doing so in settings, but not from the conventional x button). this window should be divided into two parts:1. a top-down tree-like structure that organizes chats according to category, or just in line with the \"root\" branch (think of the way filesystems are often represented, for example in older versions of windows and on linux desktops). it would be easy to get an overlook of all the chats in the tree (for example, you could make categories to organize your chats in), and they would blink as normal when new posts have arrived.2. the standard chat interface, as it is now. this should be changeable by clicking another chat in the tree mentioned above.i believe this would make mananging multiple chats much, much easier, and would be a helpful update for the game ui."
"a simple text field viewable in the \"contacts\" tab under \"people & places\" window. this contact field would be available next to each contact in a user's list. a ~50 character field to create notes will greatly improve contact management for those of us with more than a dozen contacts.i realize a \"notes\" feature exists under \"show info\" -> \"notes\" but this is not quickly accessible and doesn't assist in contact management. in fact, it's quite unusable.this is a simple modification to the ui that greatly increases usability. perhaps not many people on board with it now, but i believe once implemented it would be used by many pilots."
"useful idea, but since ccp have steadfastedly refused to give us the requested contacts folders, i doubt they'll make time to do this."
"yep, make the existing notes be shown in the contacts list when you click a contact in a window below just like with emails."
"contact labels are on sisi right now, iirc they should be deployed on tq with the final part of incursion."
"can my maller have a 6th turret and a dmg (rather than cap use) bonus first?"
"let's focus on the discussion at hand if you don't mind, my good sir! that said, support me and i'll support your maller =pallow me to stress; i have never seen a bellicose in pvp. evar! except when fools, such as i, fly them because i love the ship, underpowered or no =p the only time a bellicose is ever chosen over another cruiser is;a) the pilot is young and doesn't know what to look for, orb) they can't afford a stabber or rupture. even then, it's still fairly expensive, especially considering it's uselessness. it costs roughly 3 mil, for which only 1 mil more you can get a stabber or for the same price you can get an arbi."
"i would like to see the belicose get some love, but i would advocate for keeping the target painter bonus and turning it into a missile boat. swith the 5% projectile rof bonus to a missile rof bonus and give it at least one more missile hardpoint. the target painter fits better with missiles."
"that is true, and i would not ming the swap in weapon systems. however, the reasoning behind making the change is not necessarily to increase it's viability as a solo boat, although it would have that side effect, but rather to make a platform for pilots to learn on as a stepping stone between the bellicose and rapier/huginn. additionally, the painter bonus is rarely wanted by fleets, and if it is they could as easily choose a vigil for the exact same effect. by increasing range on webs for the bellicose, fleets would have reason to bring this frigate killing machine to the table.cheers, thanks for the comment,papa"
"if anything, i would advocate giving the vigil a web range bonus so match up with its speed as a specialist tackler. having target painters on the vigil does not help frigate sized weapon systems, but on the belicose heavy missiles and heavy assault missiles can both benefit from a target painter when used against small targets. this combined with the decent sized drone bay would make the belicose an effective cruiser sized anti-frigate platform which the minmatar don't really have (caracal, vexor & arbitrator are hugely effective in anti-frigate roles)."
"there should be an option to remove all labels in that screen as well.sometimes the labels on moons / planets / and other get in the way.i am only interested in the sig im scannign - i could care less what the labels are on the rest of the objects."
"ok so with the most recent patch mwd got a shiny new icon, and it looks pretty cool. bt how about giving the mwd when active a effect over the ship similar to how it looks on the icon"
"engine. ****ing. trails."
"so it seems there is no easy way to just move home with a freighter then ccp couldn't just make some sort of special container?like one that takes say 2-3 times more space than the ship, reflecting the fact a rigged ship would need to be more carefully packaged. maybe styrofoam or giant bubblewrap?anyway i disagree with this thread somewhat as i don't think this should be such an exclusive feature to be a tech 2 ship, there should be some more standard way of doing it. i would be most dissapointed if i was forced to train for a tech 2 ship just so i can save an hour going back and forth"
"well i have to admit 2 weeks until we find out what is going to be in there, i hope ccp can pull off their miracle mode and include some cool stuff."
"i like to thank you all for responding with respectful and informative manner"
"it does work with tracking mods. you recieve the same benefit.and it does increase tracking versus larger ships as well."
"buffing npc corps is the opposite of what we need."
"sorry i mistakenly deleted the middle portion of the text and didn't realize it till now, i fail.the middle portion was about extending this concord protection (to player corps) into low sec to varying degrees (what i don't know). basically player corps will be forced to pay to safely or somewhat safely operate in low sec. regardless of how pirates may feel, this will definitely increase low sec populations. being in a player corp will now become a huge advantage. though i do acknowledge something would have to be done to make sure danger and risk are still omnipresent."
"what about a skill that increases the rate of standings gain from grinding missions in the first place? that skill would represent your charismatic ability to influence people through your social circles. then perhaps we can add another skill that increases the perceived standings, so you have to grind even less to get to the good agents? this skill would represent your aptitude at building social networks to increase the number of \"connections in high places\" you have.we don't want to have pilots regaining faction standings too quickly if they do something foolish like run lots of missions against that faction for the enemy faction's navy. so let's say... level 5 of the social skill would boost your standings gains by about 1/4 - it's a significant increase over the base standings grind, without making the grind a joke. then the \"connections\" skill could give you about a 1/5 improvement in perceived standings, which should be enough to skip right over level 1 and perhaps even level 2 missions if you know what you're doing.why would an experienced player be allowed to walk into any corporation to take the cream missions, without the grind to get to talk to the good mission agents?"
"well i am not saying they should get the cream missions but i am saying that l1 - l4 is like levels the actual missions and rewards are determined by the quality of the agent. if the quality was set to effect mission gains in a much more significant manner you could have a player start at a tier 4 agent of any corp have a challanging mission but get crappy rewards the rats would have less loot and little salvage.but in real life corperate politics corperations hate each other and the administration. the average employee is just a tradeable comodity and if you end up moving to another region even though you did blow up alot of their ships they dont see you as an individual they will see you as a nameless ship flying the flag of the compititionthus when you come to them they will say hey here is an opertunity to deprive our rival of a very effective asset so lets hire him his portfolio is impressive"
"op is officially clueless after that last post.you, sir, do not get eve. you don't get the pvp side of it, and you don't get the carebear side of it. i would suggest saving yourself much butthurt now and finding a new mmo."
"personally i just say use the report isk spammer. i know it was put there for the rmt jihad but they are spamming and they are stealing isk so i think it is apropriate to bring it to ccp's attention.however the idea of systematically muting people with enough bad rep can easily be abused. there are many corperations and alliances that have plenty of members to perform a dos style griefing attack leading to false mutings"
"i'd wake up. problem solved."
"if you thought ccp had problems with the csm now, just wait..."
"i am not a doctor.even if i would, i doubt i would be properly paid.therefore, i would do nothing."
"locking empty thread."
"an owledge thread that makes sense? does not compute! danger, will robinson!"
"i think what he means is a way to bind a group of drones to a hotkey and launches the group that is assigned to a given keyfor example you assign the drones to 2 groups med and liteyou can than right click the drone configuration and assign launch med to ctrl-shift-1 and launch lite to ctrl-shift-2 for example"
"i support this cause"
"thanks for the support.about your critics, i respectfully disagree:- locked ships: bad, once something's locked in frig combat the fight is mostly over.- only ten, or only quicker than you: it becomes really confusing when there are some who pulse the mwd.the solution is to provide a proper filter, so that the user is able to exclude ships from his fleet/corp/alliance, as it currently works with the overview tabs. of course for large fleet battles this is less useful, but the tactical overlay can be turned off quickly, and any client side lag this would generate is therefore not an issue.edit on a second thought, adding a shortcut to turn on and off the overlay seems a good point for this proposal. i will edit the first post accordingly."
"dr. battlesmiththanks for at least supporting the topic. i know you aren't thrilled with everything in what i propose. i just hope we get enough support to have csm take something to ccp. but fw changes are bound to happen. i agree with you fw complex pvp is the best in the game- when you can get it. i don't want ccp to completely dump plexing when they eventually revamp fw. we need to let ccp know how they can improve plexing in a way that creates more of this great pvp. lol you are right its not a big issue. but i need to ask. why doesn't the military already know where *its own* military complexes are? i mean what kind of sense does that make. general talking to pilot: \"soldier, we lost *all* of our military complexes and we need you to go roaming systems to scan them down.\" pilot: what do you mean we lost all of our military complexes general: whats not to understand soldier? i cant find the____ papers that had their locations. now you need to roam around the galaxy and scan them down.pilot: what!?!? cant you telephone the people in the military complexes and have them *tell* you their location?general: the phone numbers were on the papers giving their locations. thats why i need you to go warping around the galaxy using your scanner to find them for me. pilot: well doesnt *anyone* know the phone numbers to these military complexes? general: no i lost that paperwork too. look just warp to every planet in these 50 systems and hit your system scanner. well hit it 2xs at each planet because its sort of hit or miss.pilot: can you at least tell me how many military complexes we have in each system? or was that in the paperworkgeneral: you guessed it now stfu and go find our military complexes. if those politicians ever find out we dont even know where are military complexes are it will be both of our a____esso as the pilot i dutifully go out and do this. then the next morning guess what? he lost the papers *again*!! and you have to find all the lost military complexes again! and every single day the same thing seems to happen. i tend to think the only reason we need to scan down these complexes was because ccp didnt think we had enough uses for the scanner. now with wormholes there are more things for people who like launching probes so there is no need for this. but actual immersion aside, if you have 9 planets in a system then the scanning assuming 1 scan per planet (they recommend 2 scans but realistically you will likely just do 1 scan) that is 4.5 minutes. if you figure about 20 seconds in between each scan for warping etc. that is an extra 3 minutes. so if you scan 6 systems that is 45 minutes of doing nothing but warping and scanning."
"well this would be true if they were unique responses. however they aren't."
"well, havn't u all noticed they already got nerf dps to sub caps is been cut by 30%, if u don't like how the super carriers are now then don't go hunting them, for 11-14 billion isk, id want something that can take on anything out there, hence the super capital, crying that there to op has been going on since dominion."
"i think the true question here is how few drakes should be able to kill supercarriers.i mean since nc and friends etc can field 1k drakes i think the server should just reset sov as soon as they enter system. titans and other capitals should self destruct immediately and pos shields should drop allowing anything inside to be targeted.oh and the 600m insurance for a titan loss should be forfieted to the killers allaince to compensate them for the caldari navy missles used to kill the 70b isk machine.why do we have to constantly dumb down the game to make recruits from something awful able to enjoy it?oh and judging from the date of the op i suspect that he is just butthurt."
"because they cant do that all at once. they have to sneak up on it. one little nerf at a time until the only thing that matters in a battle is how many three month old players one side has over the other.i say offer them some pureed carrots. maybe theyll go away.-windjammer"
"actually they were nerfed against subcaps by far more than 30% but i think thats just the first step in what should happen.as for the dice troll you're in a pretty special place to talk about being butthurt. if you honestly view being unable to simply field one type of ship to counter p much anything in the game as \"dumbing down\" of eve maybe you should relook into what the concept of dumbing down means.you should also look into your apoc fits."
"sounds good to me, i also like the 'dcu's give 3 extra drones each + only 1 drone extra per carrier level' thing, that makes a lot of sense. don't bother removing that lowslot on the hel, it's already so very weak by comparison. what we should also be talking about is making slave implants not function on capital ships too."
"and a billion isk faction bs should be able to kill anything that costs less than that, right? isk is not now nor has it ever been a balancing factor .. to use it as such would mean decoupling all prices from market so they do not fluctuate except when devs wish it so.reason for not going \"hunting\" (i assume you mean fail-fit ratting sc?) is that you need your own or a stupendous blob to do anything should you happen to catch one.so you want to balance eve on the basis of what fotm jockeys latch on to every time they get an impulse from a stray neuron.there has only been one occasion where a player entity has been directly responsible for a major game change - wardec system and privateers.as for \"dumbing down\" .. how does asking for changes that makes more than 3 (4 counting drakes ) ships viable become 'dumbing down', quite the opposite. capitals online is boring .. whatever change makes it less so is a good change."
"i still think the hel bonus should be changed to engine trail length per level."
"i haven't read the last 2 or so pages, but what would buffing dread dps against supercaps do? or maybe a special siege module that works like a cloak (toggle on/off), but you can't target structures while it's active so it doesn't get abused for ninja pos takedowns.close range dreads have dps that almost matches that of a mom, but cost and ehp are only 10% of a mom's. surely there can be something done here to make them into supercap melting glass cannons when used correctly. currently this isn't possible, because supers melt them too fast as soon as they enter siege (no remote reps, can't even get out).just an idea i had the other day, feel free to figure out everything that's wrong with it :psupporting this thread, though you might want to rethink the -1 slot on hel. i think if it stays like it is while the others lose the slot might make it look like it can compete."
"incorporating this into the existing siege module (via a script, perhaps?) could work, but since the balance issue is with supercarriers its surely more appropriate to modify the ships that are causing the problem rather than re-arranging everything else to fit in. the benefit of the proposed alterations is that it if supercarriers can no longer swat away tacklers and subcaps so freely, it helps re-establish the importance of smaller support ships and a balanced fleet composition, rather than a 1-dimensional 'just bring more of the biggest ships' approach that dominion has introduced.plus, if supercaps remain as anti-capital gankmobiles and capitals become anti-supercap gankmobiles, the food chain starts to look more like a circle! i'm assuming that the hel will (eventually) get some sort of reworking of its bonuses and/or stats to bring it in line with the rest (or that the others will be nerfed down to hel levels!) seperately from any reworking of supercarrier abilities as a whole. if not, then you have a point."
"confirming that spending the most isk on a ship should make it functionally indestructable.*fits officer mods to a rifter*"
"bumped for cyno's everywhere!! \o/"
"its in the winter summit minutes that the guy that is going to do this is hired but had not started work yet hopefully he can get the big three cyno, engine trails and titan bridges fixed before fan fest"
"supported"
"1.0"
"certainly it was, but what this is about is people wanting the cake and eating it .. no one, not a one, has said so much as a peep until now. aesthetics (or lack thereof) is clearly at the very bottom of the list for the people who chose the min/max approach .. since a collective shift of this magnitude in personal preferences is unheard of the only thing that remains is that it is opportunistic garbage and should be treated as such.you chose to buy a speedy car with room for 1 and now that a car-pool commuter lane is opening up you suddenly want the mpv as it is better at getting where you need to go .. *******s i say."
"supported. bloodline or race change, please."
"supportedbloodlines do not matter anymore, when it comes to game mechanics. since neural remaps have been enabled, the only factor of choosing specific bloodline is in fact its appearance. why would the ppl suffer from being ugly? my main character is amarr khanid. i chose this bloodline because it looked imo the best of all 3. now they are the worst-looking ones. where is their long, straight hair and cunning gaze, that made them look so evil? after 4 hours spend with the new character creator i can't achieve even a half of that feeling :(to all those who are against because of roleplay issues: noone will force you to change your bloodline!!! the choices we made in the past should't affect the future in the way we cannot control. when creating our character we accepted the way it looked, and now - noone asks for our permission - we are forced to look as someone else wants us to, opposing to the choice we made the day our character was created.that's why i think we should all get a free bloodline change"
"it would simply be easier to take into account interracial couples and genetic contamination and just enable all traits in the creator lord knows with how often the races interact by now most genetic traits would have crossed over even if they are recessive. simple heredity.but change of bloodline would be a close second."
"still no word on hybrid turret's getting some love?"
"/support"
"how about this for a solution:take a look at the word hybrid. it means a melt between two systems.lets go from there...why not let ammo deside how the weapon works. if a player loads rail ammo the gun will fire as a rail. if the player loads blaster ammo it will work as a blaster.2 guns in one. a hybrid.both rail and blasters suck so much that combined they just about make a decent weapon."
"but... what... hmm yeah!i like it!"
"supported."
"le bump."
"how about this for a solution:take a look at the word hybrid. it means a melt between two systems.lets go from there...why not let ammo deside how the weapon works. if a player loads rail ammo the gun will fire as a rail. if the player loads blaster ammo it will work as a blaster.2 guns in one. a hybrid.both rail and blasters suck so much that combined they just about make a decent weapon."
"considering it sounds like the railgun overhaul was primarilly for caldari why not just deploy them as ship bonuses rather than global module bonuses same effect just race specific"
"heres a quote from the contest forum thread under faq:as well as the official rules it states:so as it stands there isnt anything set in stone to say its to be included.. bt the prizes are still pretty good!"
"screw facebook."
"i have no problem with facebook being used as a voting venue. but, it should not be the only way to vote. that is my issue with the thing."
"nice idea"
"does this smell to anyone else like a ccp staffer?your comments might carry some water if there was some way to vote other than with facebook. regardless of what you say and regardless of whether any of the designs make it into the game, this is an eve thing. if ccp wanted to open it to the masses outside of eve, no problem. however, to require that something of eve and for eve be exclusively run through facebook is nothing less than an attempt to force subscribers to join facebook and advertise for ccps game at the expense of the subscriber. the expense would be contributing to an unethical organization, facebook. also, lets just go ahead and define the subscriber as what he or she is. someone who is already paying ccp.people dont want to pay ccp for the game, then turn around and have to sign up for something they dont want, like facebook, in order to participate in all aspects of the game theyre already paying for.you make a big deal about how ccp is a business and how they need to generate more income to make eve a better game. where have you been? theyve been developing dust 514 and some world of darkness with vampires, etc. these will eventually, hopefully, give ccp more money, but even dust 514 is only marginally associated with eves content. costs of running eve itself have not appreciably increased and those increases that are there are more than made up for by increased subscribers. a large portion of the increased revenue is going towards things that may be good for ccp, but have little, if anything, to do with eve.these concepts are obvious, nothing to be amazed at and are far from short sighted. they are, in fact, the justifiable ire of people ccp should be paying attention to. their customers.-windjammer"
"thanks for pointing me to the price section, geeshizzle.one thing about the contest i noted, btw, was how well detailed some of the ships are -- and how much i liked that. :) it adds so much more realism. with incarna around the corner (or at least the new high-def character creator), i wouldn't mind if ccp's art department started thinking of higher-def ship models as well."
"10.0"
"while i appreciate ur sentiment, im not actually affiliated in any professional manner or manner above being a customer of ccp in any way :) and yes you're right about the fact that eve-onlines running costs specifically may not have raised that much, although a lot of money has been spent on infrastructure to keep blades cool and data flowing.quite a few respected eve players have talked about the fact eve online may be benefiting from the development of the side projects you've talked about, as modding old systems and code can only get you soo far. drawing inspiration and ideas from a fresh modern game build can help a lot, and i would not be surprised that the new redesigned systems that have appeared in eve have been first created for these new projects and then ported over to eve. when i originally talked about running costs of eve online i didnt specifically mean the upkeep of the servers and its cost in resources, i meant all the wages and additional requirements that a much larger team of developers require. ive done business models before and when u double and triple an employee base your costs skyrocket quite surprisingly. so yes running eve online isnt tooo taxing on icelandic krona, but the cost of the increased size of the development staff would be backing ccp into a corner unless they find creative and new ways to reach out to new customers, and therefore new subbs and more income.im just saying that the whole facebook \"like\" feature to this competition is the personification of this drive to reach out to new possible customers at little or no cost to ccp, unlike front cover spreads and feature previews in magazines, which always costs money."
"all these new social netware data collectors like facebook, twitter & co really s u ck, they are bad.i ignore them and nobody will push me ever to use them. so i totally agree and i support this.+1"
"fully supported.if you're still not sure about this then watch facebook intelligence-links"
"i'm not even using eve gate because it's just another stupid social web thinggy, let alone failbook."
"i nearly **** my pants when i watched this if i could support this twice i wouldi was worried about facebook because of viruses but now that i see the cia uses it i can make a fake facebook page to throw them off the trail muahahahaha*skips off to his mothers basement wearing a tinfoil hat*"
"it's a very cool idea but i sincerely doubt it can be done because of server load issues, queues, etc as mentioned earlier.the current version of this exists: a \"want to buy\" contract. it is highly unlikely that such a contract would pass off easily though as who in their right mind would do the math to see if it is worth selling to it (or even doing the math on the final value)so a modification to your proposal...\"basket\" contracts. (i agree it needs a better name)-player puts on a \"basket contract\" that has a list of items that player wants to buy.-the items are each given a set price, not high and low, for a viewer to see.-the number of units is listed and updates based on sellers filling the quota for a given item.***example \"basket\" contractbuyer: alias 6322aitems to be bought-x10 stasis webifiers for 500isk each-x5 125mm railgun i for 1500isk each-x30 merlin for 5000isk eachstation: jita 4-4 (you get the idea)range: station*** mr. bob browses the 'basket contracts' and sees somebody is buying stasis webs for 500isk each and he goes \"wow! excellent sale for me!\". he can select on the contract the webs and, provided he has them at the correct location, hit \"sell for 500isk each\" up to an amount of 10, or less if someone else has partially filled the order.basket contracts would need to be searchable for individual items to make them easy to find for folks like mr. bob who only sell one item. they are a flat price that can be favorable or not. as a 'lazy' option, to make this work you'll likely have to set a price higher than the market to ensure you get your items...but at the same time it means not setting individual sell orders. populating the list would be similar to contracts now and shouldn't be hard. effectively you're making a contract able to have individual amounts to multiple items on it.that's just my take on a way to employ it. the idea as a whole is very cool and i'd like to see some development of it."
"if you can load a basket full of salvage and get rid of it in one go that would also be nice but supported market usage is an annoying click fest"
"yes"
"good idea, simple to implement, clearly useful."
"yeah!"
"this is something that very capsuleers talked about. we all know about the possible in-station recreation areas, the in-station apartments and what not. however, very little often do people talk about the little things that could have a major impact on the eve market in general.1. being a broker agent:while inside the station, why not allow capsuleers to become brokers themselves instead of letting the npc brokers do the job? currently, we players have to pay a \"broker's fee\" for any market transaction that involves the trading of isk between two players. by allowing players to take the role of the \"broker\", we can reduce the amount of isk being drained into the economic sink by these npcs.2. being a manufacturing/copying/invention agent:currently, players have to pay a production fee to the npc stations (with the exception of the player-owned outposts) in order to put into a build order. this also creates a sink in the new eden economy. by allowing players to assume the roles of production agents, the sink is also minimized in this area as the fee results in \"traded\" isk and not \"lost\" isk. also, the players would be able to watch and get involve in the production process of the ship order they received. of course, for the sake of the security of the customer's build order, the minerals, components, and bpos/bpcs will only be kept inside a secure station vault that not even the production agent can access (only the customer or the customer's ceo can access it like usual should they need to cancel the order). in the meantime, the player can interact with the construction units in the building of the ship (building speed, efficiency, and being able to handle t2/t3 build orders could be affected by training skills). that way, players can actually feel like they did physically build the ships all throughout new eden rather than just seeing the word \"in progress\" on the jobs window change to \"complete\".this proposal could at the very least give players a sense of purpose when walking around the station (sure beats walking around all day long). that way, they could still have an effect on the world outside the stations while being in the stations. of course, certain measures have to be in place to prevent any potential abuse of these interactive systems.now the reason i didn't mention \"refining\" is because i'm not sure if it needs to be touched or not. i'll leave that up to you guys to decide. but, overall, at least you wouldn't have to just walk around and setup lemonade stands in jita 4-4."
"i'd agree if these roles require you to fill out multiple government applications for each order, then stand in line to local government agency, process paperwork, and file your applications to another agent. basically it should be a full time job doing legal paperwork.otherwise people just make alts to make money for nothing"
"not supported. frankly, we need more isk sinks, not less."
"please elaborate as to why?besides, even though i made some emphasis on removing isk sinks, the main point on this proposal is to allow more interactivity for in-station environments while still having an impact on the world outside the stations. that way, it wouldn't feel like the sims."
"this idea has my approval. marloco you are a jeenyus!"
"5.8 5.8 6.0 5.9 5.9 6.0 5.8 and 6.0"
"this thread is not for discussing hybrids, but for discussing problems of the gallente ships themselves. i believe that they are to blame for the most of our pain. many have pointed out that not only the guns themselves are a problem. some not very well designed ships are. take the hyperion. it is suppose to be an awesome ship, we have a bonus to tank, bonus to damage, 8 guns, massive capacitor, i mean, what else could you want from a bs? the main issue is that on one ship (for it to be effective in pvp) we must have: 100mn mwd is a must because guns are very short range8 guns that eat capacitor2 large armor repairers as a minimum to tank anything. (using the ships bonus)throw in a point and a web and capacitor depletes in 40 seconds!!!huston, we have a problem! bs is out of cap in 40 seconds, not even mentioning any vulnerability to energy neutralisers. you need two t2 heavy capacitor boosters to run just the tank and the guns, not even mentioning the mwd. now, try fitting 2 large armor repairers, 2 heavy capacitor boosters, and a 100 mn mwd on a hyperion. congratulations, you have just spent 60% of you ships powergrid! now where do i put the guns? maelstrom is a similar ship: it has 8 guns and a bonus to active tank. the reason it is so superior to the hyperion is because it can actually fit the gear it needs to fly, and because its active tank is almost twice as strong as that of the hyperion, and it compensates for lack of buffer tank. guns are a separate topick. problems:not enough cap to run everythingnot enough speed to get in range quicklynot enough active tank to compensate for lack of buffer. if you do fit a heavy tank, you make the ship slower, meaning that you have less chanse of getting the guns in range, meaning that you hav higher ods of being suck there, unable to catch up to your target, being slowly killed. potential solutions: 1 simplest solution is to boost powergrid of ships with active tank bonus through the roof, so they can actually fit all the stuff. it is not a perfect solution, but it does get things fixed without many changes to overall game balance. yeah, it a boost to hyperion, britux and a couple others. anyone is gonna say that they dont need it? most gallente ships have about 2/3 the powergrid of their amarr and minmatar counterparts anyway. i mean, maestrom gets 21k powergrid and hyperion gets 15k. maelstrom lso gets shieldtank, which needs no powergrid, it gets guns that need less powergrid and less cpu, it needs only one cap booster and does not need mwd as much because its guns have longer range. i mean seorisly, how does hyperion deserve this?? solution two: this is a more complex solution. i propose giving some gallente ships a bonus to mwd overload speed bonus and web bonus. the idea is that you have once change to overload mwd, get in range and web the target. if you are successful, you end up in close range fight where you have superior damage output, and horrible blaster tracking is less of an issue since your target is webbed by a bonused web. if you dont get this right, you die solution three: give gallente shield tank. shield tank does not diminish your speed, and speed is very valuable when you fly blaster ships. alternatively, you could give galente projectile guns so they can sit around ad shoot things without having to get up close and personal. if wsuch change was to happen, all gellente shoul have the chanse to take their sp out of armor skills and re-inverst it into shield skills.to me solution number one seems like the most logical and simple one. support if you like any of the solutions above or think gallente ships are a problem, suggest your own solutions as you see fit. discussion is open"
"reserved"
"low sec needs pirates like corn flakes need milk but.i am currently formulating a proposal for correcting some of the issues in low sec. a little about myself for context, i have been playing since 2006, i have several accounts, done just about everything in the game, cap ships fights, worm holes, blob fleets, small gang warfare etc. recently i returned to low sec as a solo player and i love every minute of it. yet, i can see the point that people make that it is broken, has low player density, no one mines, the pirates have so few targets they are bored, too much risk vs. reward etc. etc. etc.the problems, so people say, stems from the pirates, i have to say that i conditionally agree. on one hand pirates are the life blood of low sec, we need them, they are the top-end predators and need a strong presence in the area to give low-sec its sense of menace. (so dont think for a second this is an anti-pirate rant)ton the other hand, entering a system which is still technically under empire control and having twenty -10 pirates docked at a station with their feet kicked up seems somewhat strange. arent pirates anti-social murderers bent on wanton pillage, thus typically relegated to back water areas of ill repute? what the heck are they doing hanging out in an empire corporation station?wouldnt it be more appropriate to make it easy for pirates to come and ravage low sec systems yet, harder to stay around? the historical strength of pirates has always been to swoop in on unsuspecting ships in force and then disappear to places unknown to spend their ill-gotten gains?with this in mind, i came up with some ideas i would like to float. before reading please bear in mind that i am proposing this not to hurt piracy to but resurrect low-sec and thus create more player density thus more potential targets.1-docking restricted based on sec status: as a players sec status decreases he incurs a fee to enter a low sec empire station. starting at a very small amount( so that novice pirates are not priced out of the game) and getting progressively worse as the sec status approaches until at -5 or less they can no longer dock.(this fee would also be modified by the sec. rating of the system, less fines the lower the rating) the fee represents bribes necessary to let petty pirates dock and the restriction represents the docking authorities at some point saying your crimes are too great if i let you dock i will lose my job.why? it should be difficult for a career pirate to interact at all in civilized parts of space. while high-sec is off limits to pirates entirely, stations in low sec should be islands in the stars for non-criminal players, with the main part of the system being an open hunting ground for the pirates.2-at a certain sec. status the station guns should open fire on criminals.why? can you just picture the station manager looking at the view screen, and seeing a fleet of hostile pirates in gun range and letting them hang out to wait to blow up his tenants? this forces pirates to be more creative, fluid and intelligent in their activities. 3-randomly and infrequently a criminal attack at a gate will spawn a faction navy response, becoming increasingly rare as the security rating of the system decreases. (sleeper ai)why? pirates have to be able to think tactically and be ready if the man shows up, again, the simplistic tactics used now will have to be changed and fits will be modified, in the unlikely event yet very real chance that they are unexpectedly engaged.4-(very tentative about this one) give groups of miners the ability to purchase an npc escort(sleeper ai)*. this escort would have to be broken before the miners received dps. miners can be tackled however, just not popped while the npc escort is intact. cost prohibitive and increasingly expensive at lower security rating systems.to be continued..."
"why? industry is the life blood of the real world and the eve world it would make sense that the factions would provide escorts for industry types in exchange for a cut of their minerals. they have to make their own ships after all.*i would rather this be a player driven operation potentially done through the new contracts system but i dont have a concrete idea of how to implement it.you may be reading this and thinking that for a guy who said this wasnt to be a rant against pirates it sure has a lot of anti-pirate changes. well, here is why i dont agree.pirates have become so successful that they have chased all of the prey away from the water hole, and while unprobeable t3s have mitigated the problem somewhat, it is still not where it should be. there needs to be a change in the prey/predator dynamic. what i would hope would be accomplished via this rules change? i would hope that pirates would be encouraged to base out of npc null sec and regularly raid up into low sec and maybe even down into sov. nullsec instead of planting themselves en masse in a low sec area which is both unrealistic and inhibitory to what their ultimate goal is, more ship kills. of course if the pirates wish to maintain a presence in a certain system or want to be able to change ships they can of course place a pos in system. if pirates have a need to camp a station to get at a certain player or corp then they can avail themselves of the war dec mechanic.why would any of this make a difference? the pirates would have to maintain a line of logistics, whether that means bringing a carrier or orca or put up a staging pos if they want to victimize an area instead of just waiting out their gcc and docking up giving them some vulnerability if the prey decides to fight back. alternately, they would have to roam up to where they want to go and back risking attacks from other roaming gangs. also, as there might be a tendency to want to have place to dock and accumulate assets the npc 0.0 stations would see more use and possibly more pvp as pirate corps squabble over limited office space.hopefully, the more transitory nature of pirate attacks would lead adventurous players to take the step into low sec and keep them there even if they get popped a few times because they would have the understanding that eventually given no easy place to base from the pirates would move on. again, staging poss are appropriate as a base and while inconvenient at times are eminently doable, look at the professional wormhole corps living out of poss, if they can do it, certainly, those engaged in the pirate career can do so.so is this anti-pirate? again i dont think so. the players i have met that are pirates are typically highly skilled players with a very good grasp of pvp and game mechanics. i think these changes might add a sense of challenge and instill more tactical thinking, as well as bring more players into low sec. finally, while it would be a bit of culture shock, after the changes were digested, i firmly believe that everyone would have more fun, and isnt that the point?"
"forgot to support my own idea"
"actually, in rl (i know, i know... i should never compare games to rl, but bear with me) pirates were often employed (or at the very least, given indirect support) by various empires to go out and attack other empires' convoys and/or warships.for example, in the \"golden age\" of piracy pirates would often attack spanish ships in and around the caribbean area (cuba, eastern mexico, and south florida) and then dock at english ports further north which [tacitly] supported them.now for the big difference... according to eve lore capsuleers are not part of any empire per se and are instead a force completely unto themselves. the only governing body that has any say in capsuleer activities is [more or less] concord.ergo, the 4 empires could care less who resides in their borders or docks in their stations. it's not really their concern.to get to meat of your proposal... your idea seems geared to completely wipe out piracy from the game.once a person reaches -10 (as quite a few \"hardcore\" pirates do) they will effectively be unable to dock anywhere save 0.0 space... and we all know how docking rights are set out there (i.e. you can't dock, period).with the pos towers... a good idea but also slightly flawed. you need standings with a particular empire to set up a pos in their territory. unless said pirates can run missions or join militia (both of which require you to dock) how do you propose that pirates be able to gain the necessary standings (remember, setting up pos towers requires \"raw\" standings... skilling up in diplomacy and connections will not affect things)?as for npc guards... that kinda goes against the \"player oriented gameplay\" that eve is so famous for. why join a corp or buy mercs/bodyguards when you can simply get npcs to do the same thing (albeit, less effectively)?"
"thank you for replying shah,i agree that the npc escort is a controversial and i proposed more as an idea for discussion than a concrete idea, like i said i would rather it be player driven. as for wiping pirates out...absolutely not and i really hope this post does not come across that way. would piracy be harder? yes, but piracy should be hard and these players who choose to do it are up to the challenge i promise you that.it is challenge to operate in a low sec area that is infested by player pirates, it is an exilarating,adrenaline pumping experience. instant undocks, tactical warp ins, avoiding roaming gangs and gate camps and seeing if and when you can pick one off. i submit that the majority of those engaged in piracy these days aren't getting that experience, it becomes dull, rote, the same old thing with very little risk, (i have done it myself), while at the same time decreasing the odds of other players moving in to the area. lets change that a little. as far as empire stations not caring due to capsuleer affiliation, i have to disagree, the pirates are \"murdering\" their clientele...i am not a role player i just like things to make as much as possible in this game of space pixels edit:spelling"
"don't really know about the viability of some of your ideas.... and i suspect i rather disagree with alot of them.but i do however support the introduction of consequences to the game... seeing as how the only current consequence is grinding status if you want to go chill in highsec. there's virtually no real consequences as it is."
"if you have suggestions for improving low sec, i urge you to contribute to the making lowsec matter project."
"thing is, there's a difference between \"making things hard\" and \"making things unnecessarily hard.\"your idea would force pirates (a \"rabble rabble\" bunch for the most part) to employ logistical tactics/efforts usually used only by 0.0 alliances. i can say from personal experience that the main allure of low-sec is that one can engage in \"0.0-esque\" activities without the headache of dealing with logistics and/or massive amounts of organization that null-sec dwelling essentially \"requires.\""
"this is a quote from a news story about a recent test firing by the us navy of a railgun:an electromagnetic railgun offers a velocity previously unattainable in a conventional weapon, speeds that are incredibly powerful on their own. in fact, since the projectile doesn't have any explosives itself, it relies upon that kinetic energy to do damage. and at 11 a.m. today, the navy produced a 33-megajoule firing -- more than three times the previous record set by the navy in 2008. \"it bursts radially, but it's hard to quantify,\" said roger ellis, electromagnetic railgun program manager with the office of naval research. to convey a sense of just how much damage, ellis told foxnews.com that the big guns on the deck of a warship are measured by their muzzle energy in megajoules. a single megajoule is roughly equivalent to a 1-ton car traveling at 100 mph. multiple that by 33 and you get a picture of what would happen when such a weapon hits a target.i think this is what ccp should have in mind when they fix railguns- and they need to fix railguns. gallente shouldn't be restricted to drones for their only viable ranged weapon. blasters need some lovin' as well, but you knew that from the 20 page blaster thread :p"
"then why are you proposing changes to tracking and sig resolution? what do you think that tracking does that signature resolution does not (or vice versa)?"
"this sounds like it has potential. if \"buff tracking\" was the answer then ccp probably would have just gone ahead and done it.i support a hybrid buff but it needs more though than ops suggestion."
"at the moment it works like this. this could be changed at the whim of ccp, and with good reason. therefore, suggesting a reduction in sig radius might not be different from a bonus t tracking at the moment, but this also might not always be the case."
"i approve most of this proposition, except that 20% tracking might be... a bit too much...still, good idea !"
"the problem doesn't step from hackers hacking into your account. the problem is the owner of the account. do you have sufficient anti-malware software? do you have a sufficient firewall setup? do you make sure your passcode is complicated as hell? do you make sure that you never share your passcode nor use the same passcode on separate web-based services? do you make sure to never click on any links that claim to be from ccp, even though they may genuinely be from ccp? do you make sure to never get involved with isk farmers? do you change your passcode every so often?if you answer \"no\" to any of these, then you are the problem.i got multiple anti-virus softwares, a good firewall (all updated and used regularly), and a passcode that's so complicated that not even julian assange could figure out (and they get longer every time i change them). so far, my account has not been hacked and i have been on eve for more than 3 years."
"i've used a 5 or 6 digit rng authenticator before (don't remember which, it's been a while). it generated a new combination once every 30 seconds. it's good enough for large companies with secured data, it should be good enough for eve."
"as for melantari's comments about all the \"stuff\" being costly to replace, i'd suggest that players need to learn the difference between \"rich\" and \"wealthy\" - you can sell plex and be rich, or you can start a corporation and be wealthy."
"damn right i want a token generator!"
"well, if people still insist on a token generator, then let me at least recommend tying one's cellular phone to the account. google's gmail uses this method to ensure that the person requesting a password reset is the right person. i have a gmail account setup in this fashion. before, you had to tie in gmail with another email account like hotmail or setup a security question. nowadays, my cell phone is the only key and i keep it on me all the time.it would be nice if ccp allowed us to tie our cell phones into our accounts and send us a randomly-generated token number through that."
"everyone can fight back. just cause the carebears choose not to fight, it's their own fault, not the other side's.and carebears have it way too easy in eve, they grow fat and lazy, and we need to cull their herds a bit to keep their population healthy."
"why should they, the only presence they have is probably alts to move stuff around and make a little isk on the side.most high-sec wars (read: grief wars) are not pvp, closer to pve for all intents and purposes. experienced and properly skilled vs. inexperienced with marginal (relevant) skills .. would you volunteer to twelve rounds with a pro boxer?the system is pretty bad, but i have no idea what could/should replace it. perhaps a corp wide sec hit if a war is concluded without any combat ship kills (ie. not haulers, shuttles and the like) .. grief would be griefers for trying to run down pedestrians"
"the fact that they feel necessary to limit their open presence in empire and resort to alts only proves how reluctant they are to pvp in empire.people who like to pvp shouldn't hide behind alts in empire. it's carebearish.personally i don't like the whole alts thing. and i really don't like how extremely safe 0.0 alliance transports have become. in 0.0 it's all jump bridges and cyno jumps, in empire it's all alts.half the fun in military battles is destroying your enemy supply fleet. and how come eve is like the only military game where there is no need for escort duty?i just think we are missing out on some great gameplay here. we had some of it before ccp introduced jump bridges and cynos."
"so basically, you don't care about a good fight. i mean, the parallel here is pretty obvious, you're telling us that it's a good thing to have self-congratulatory bullies punching kindergartners in the face, and that you want more of them.if you want more pvp in high-sec, there's faction warfare just sitting there waiting for you. but hey, that actually requires fighting. the carebear pvp'ers, who just sit in highsec and gank others who cannot even possibly fight back, and then pat themselves on the back for it are a problem just like scamming is a problem. yes, go ahead and do it, i have no problem with that, but it shouldn't be so easy, never mind so profitable. i have absolutely no problem with ccp implementing some changes to make it harder for carebear pvp'ers to wardec noob corps in highsec.but really, you're a hypocrite - you think those noob corps and haulers are a bunch of \"fat and lazy\" carebears, but you don't realize that these gankers are just as guilty. there's little more risk ganking people in highsec than there is running missions in highsec. anyone against the \"fat and lazy\" really ought to be against the gankers too.the fact that you aren't is the secret telling us where your priorities really lie."
"supported.right now the ost to wardecs is pocket change. it should be significantly higher."
"i think 500m is a bit steep for deccing a corp"
"i agree that there needs to be more high sec conflict but we arent talking about alliance wars we are talking about small pvp corps randomly deccing small corperations for the sole purpose of high sec piracy. that isn't war that is greifing. but i would love to see some of the null alliances holding fleet battles in empire space. could become a specator sport watching large fleet battles witout worrying about getting ganked on your way to null or hit by stray fire"
"y'all dont seem to get that the wardec mechanic is working as intended. eve isnt s'posed to be a place you can afk mine 23.5/7 with impunity, it is supposed to be a place where your **** will get blown up by some ***got if you are stupid.i mean christ i learnt that about 2 weeks in when i was doing a courier mission in a rifter and got ganked in low sec.hell-ive never pirated, but i am still loving these tears...you see the thing is these pirates/high sec war-deccers have tried mining, theyve tried no-sec and so on. theyve found what they have fun doing. do you have the right to take that from them, any more than they have the right to take your precious little hulk from you? no they dont, and yet yes they do. but hey-ho, ive got a solution to your problems.dont look upon the people you mine with as a resource to make your isk making easier. talk with them, get to know them, then get a few rifters and try doing something other than watching your hold's fill for once.or hell, for something really whacky, watch local. or be at the keyboard. or both. that works well."
"there is a really good tactic that works against ganking and is pretty fun you fit a hulk with a massive tank and remove the strips alltogether and than you have a fleet of stealth bombers floating around somewhere. surprise the hulk doesent pop and surprise your corp gets the kill before concord even shows up"
"in short a check box in graphic options that turns off all smoke, fog, and gas clouds. although they are pretty some missions are rendered unplayable due to gpu lag on older machines. so please give us the option to turn them off just like with turret effects and ship modules"
"my mashine can handle them, but i find them sometimes horribly annoing"
"if you dont like local why are you not in wh space?"
"i am any more constructive arguments"
"currently ecm (yeah, facon) is the only type of e-war that does not suffer stacking penalty. the impact:if a target is sensor boosted, stacking more then 3 sensor dampeners on it will not have any effect. so you can make yourself invulnerable to sensor dampening by having one or two sensor boosters.if a target is eccm'ed, you can overpower any amount of eccm by putting more ecm on target. in fact, ecm will always win, because eccm suffers a stacking penatly, while ecm does not. solution:either:make all types of e-war suffer a stacking penalty, including eccmor:remove stacking penalty from all types of e-war in game."
"granted, ecm does not have stacking penalty but it is chance based. theoretically you could miss 90 cycles in a row before you get your first jam through. every other electronic warfare device has a chance of 1 to hit which means that you get an instant effect.ecms are practically useless on ships that do not get a bonus to ecm strength. the usefullness of every other electronic warfare mod depends on the situation, not the ship.i'm not saying that this favours one side or the other, am simply reminding that you should consider these things in your proposal.regards, lax"
"yet another thread of un-informed anti t2 bpo rioters.please do your research before asking for silly things.if you want an even playing field, the only way is to ask for a full server reset every month. titans and 100m sp characters are not available to new players, but that doesn't mean they should be removed.so as you might have guessed i do not support this thread."
"many times when i am mining i look at my cycles and they are finished, but no ore comes.it sometimes comes midway through the next cycle ( ok i can live with this ) but sometimes it does not come at all till the next cycle is even completed.now - if you have your hulk setup like i do - with mining drone rig upgrages - you do not have the m3 capacity to hold all the m3 when you stop your lasers and restart them. thus you lose m3 ore. (it gives you 1.5 cycles of ore in 1 shot or 2x cycles of ore - whatever you were missing )i propose that when a cycle is stopped - and the m3 it is returning is more than what the regular cycle m3 should be the cargo is allowed to go into overflow temporarily.i can accept the m3 ore lag - i just can't accept the m3 ore loss."
"i'm voting for myself....i'm tired of losing m3."
"+1ice mining is even worse. i sometimes loose a full cycle only because of lag.i am not using bots or macroes so i do care about it."
"um. no. your ship has a defined cargo capacity - if you're unhappy with the size of the cargo bay, there are ways to fix that (change the way it's fit). and before you say \"but i want it fit like this\" - welcome to eve. every choice has a trade off. you just discovered the trade off to fitting your ship the way you did.and you're not losing m3 - anything you can't take is left in the rock/ice. you're losing time, nothing more."
"if you are losing ore due to cargo space why not cycle your lasers so that you have time to move the first lasers ore into cargo container/orca before the next lasers amount arrives"
"this."
"it's actually a bug, nothing to do with how much cargohold you have.for example, ice mining in a mackinaw gives you 2 cubes per cycle per ice harvester.you have 2 harvester slots so 4 icecubes per cycle.sometimes it only gives 2 cubes, and puts 2 cubes into a buffer that doesn't release untilyou manually stop your cycle.i will try to explain with an example:normal way:cycle 1: delivers 4 cubescycle 2: delivers 4 cubesand so on.buggy way:cycle 1: delivers 2 cubes instead of 4only current solution:stopping your cycle.this will put the 2 remaining cubes into your cargohold.it's like the 2 remaining cubes were in a buffer.if you don't stop your cycle (i tested this), then this will happen:cycle 1: delivers 2 cubes instead of 4cycle 2: delivers 2 cubes instead of 4cycle 3: delivers 2 cubes instead of 4cycle 4: delivers 2 cubes instead of 4cycle 5: starts: stopping cycleyou stop your 5th cycle, your buffer will release the remaining 8 cubes (2*4 complete cycles).since your cargohold can only hold 6 cubes at a time 2 cubes will be lost.now im not actually whining about the lost cubes, if you spot your cycle only giving you2 cubes soon enough you can avoid losing cube.but you do lose cycle time by having to stop your cycles to fix the issue.this bug is here for a while, since dominion i think, and it might only occur when having an orca or rorqual or any ship giving mining bonuses in fleet.edit: clarified a little"
"de'veldrin,i am not asking for a bonus' of any kind...ther is an issue that the lag does not put the ore in your cargo hold. so when it finally does put it there - you dont have enough room in your hold because its giving you the last cycle and 'this cycle'.your answer not correct - to refit a ship differently because of lag. i am not using bots - i am not using macro's ... all i would like is my ore to appear in my hold when my cycle is over - and since that cannot seemed to be accomplished, i beleive my workaround is a fair one.if you mine ore - and leave your ore in your hold - and do the next cycle and not enough can fit - fine you lose that - i am happy with that.but if you mine - finish your cycle - and the ore is not delivered until the next cycle - then thats when the quirk / fix should be applied where you are allowed to store more than your hold momentarily to account for this dumb bug.you would probably complain more if you missioned and your salvage didnt show till 2 hours later. oh wait - by that time it imploded."
"one thing to add to clarify for non-miners to understand what is happening.lets say you have 3 mining lasers and each laser gives you 100m3 per cycle.your ore hold can hold 300 m3.3 cycles finish and you get 300m3 in your hold - you move it to a can. - super5 minutes pass....3 cycles finish you get only 200m3 in your hold - you dont realize that 100m3 is missing.5 minutes pass...3 cycles finish and you get 400m3. ( it gave you the last 100 you did not recieve ).but since your ore hold can only hold 300 - 100 is lost.the fix i am asking for is that if a laser is giving you (200m3 - but only should be giving you 100m3) - that 100m3 is 'allowed' to overflow ur hold. -i hope that clarify's things."
"that (and the post above yours laying out the problem as well) does clarify things considerably.that being the case, they need to fix the bug, not spend time making the hold auto-overflow. so i can't support your fix to the problem, but i agree, they need to fix it."
"i think its more a case of module lag than a actual bug i.e. the shown circle on the modules is further than the server which is still processing the circle like with guns ghost firing again after you turned them offor the guns running on for halve a circle after you turned them off just vague guesses"
"if i can control my computer from my phone, why can't my computer control itself?"
"this is actually genius and probably easy to do...addendum: could we see this for 'previews' of ships too? like open up a ship preview and have it auto-spin for you.in all seriousness though this is really neat and i bet it takes minimal effort.+1"
"not supported.. the camera drone union filed a law suit against spinning and got it removed as too many camera drones got sick from it and had to be retired early for huge costs.on a side note i would like to propose a real docking option for my ship, instead of this free-floating, bobbing above some hotplate, which makes me nervous.and please add some other ships docked there too. i can't believe i always get to dock in a chamber that can easily hold 100 battleships and what not, but i'm alone.. always. just me. no one else's ships are there. never."
"^this.i wanna see all docked ships, at least the active ones.i do not need auto spin.and when i am inside a station i wanna have a window to look outside and see whats going on there. i wanna get rid of the sometimes half minute black screen while i am un/docking."
"amen to dat bruddah!"
"this would be amazing."
"agreed !"
"i'd rather give sentries a small return speed like 20m/s. so they are still stationary while attacking, but could be recalled by sieged dreads and triaged carriers after a bump."
"yes."
"ccp have never been able to deal with the code complexity drones represent, which is why they don't work very well.i kind of like this idea but on second thoughts... no, it's too open to abuse and exploits (like using a noctis or marauder etc.)i think giving them a horrifically slow (5m/sec) thruster would be a good plan, but it would only work on return, and again i don't know if the code wouldn't make them attempt to head in the direction of their targets.personally i just want focus fire to work and their targets to.. y'know.. stick."
"you could make the tractor beams jam the drones untill it is turned off so they do not fire while moving that allows them to be moved but doesent let them fire while moving"
"excellent idea ! having a lot of trouble with my internet provider, internet says good by every hour or so, i couldn't agree more, especially with the price t2 drones cost..."
"not if they are controllable. however, make abandoned drones tractorable? yes."
"if you get some idiot deploying ishtar/noctos combo at you, you get a free 50 million kill on the noctis. yes you can drag them around, but it is not useful for anything except from not having to go 40 km to scoop them up.and having 15 frigates dragging a carrier's sentries is not useful either, because damage output of an frigate is higher then that of a sentry gun, so the idea is dumb. just make all drones tractorable."
"from what i have seen and been able to pry out of ccp techs the old character creator just spat out a jpeg for the portrate since these files are all small numbered files i see no reason you ant just keep your old avatar and use the incarna creator to generate your wis character seperatly. and i am guessing the new creator would never do somthing as stupidly inefficiant as rendering the avatar in full 3d each time it is queried.so maby your wis model looks a bit different from your portrait but so i know alot of people who take photoshop to their online dating profiles"
"this isn't really a big issue...but it has merit.i have always assumed that map takes full window due to its complexity, and the same goes for pi. as 'graphic representations' that adjust in size, this could be difficult. their is an existing exception though: ship preview is windowed.+1 because it would be nice to have pi in a window so flight in a dangerous system leaves you only with your overview."
"i saw a post about this a while back but it is something that should be be brought up to ccp. the original post was by renderic vintri\"hello, im using a 3dconnexion space navigator mouse when im working with landscaping software, and i was in a sudden thinking of how nice it would be with support in eve-online. since more or less all the navigating in eve is in full 3d, this 3d mouse would make it a perfect match. here is the official link from 3dconnexion, to their software used for integrating their mouse drivers into your software."
"i think the system needs to be refined but do we really need to buff or nerf anything? stuff is already dirt cheap as it is, not more than a few months ago i saw a hulk on sell order for 115 mil."
"need moar clicking."
"so you want to reintroduce the bpo lottery. worst t2 bpo fix ever.no to op proposal, because intentionally making user friendliness worse goes against all design principles, nor would it \"fix\" t2 bpos."
"tbh it would not be lottery. it would be roughly equivalent of putting the t2 bpo's for sale as npc seeded. some people just might get lucky and get significant discount, some would overpay a bit but majority of people would get them for the average price. thats how statistics works - run a 10 jobs and its luck, run few thousand and it has nothing to do with luck anymore. ofc the 'few thousand' is dependent on the probability of the the \"bpo\" drop. although i dont like the idea of t2 bpo's on the market, even if they are npc seeded. in my opinion it would be better solution to just get rid of them somehow in combination of small buff of the invention possibly if resulting small price increase of low demand stuff worries people."
"i don't care, but i guess it would be useful to some people, so why not.also, don't forget to tick the \"support this topic\" box if you are supporting this proposal."
"standings are coupled to contacts, which are stored server side.to store standings locally, it would first be necessary to decouple them from contacts. although it would cause more server load, keeping them on the server and increasing the limits is the more elegant solution, avoiding you having to manually synchronizing multiple clients.i support the fixing of the problem, by whichever method."
"there is a mild problem with that. soon thereafter major powerblocks would give you 'standings database' you can download, short time afterwards there would be third party application written that keeps the database updated real time and few days later it would be \"bacon\" all over again with sirens going off all over your hose when somebody that is not blue enters your local chat channel. i would like to have more standings slots indeed. the 300 limit is rather irritating. it's like facebook but hey you can have only 300 people you know so pick well and if you have been playing a long while .... tough luck."
"indeed, something that also needs to be included (i dont really see why you think it is a problem). both nbsi and nrds groups, but especially nrds since they have way more standing slots used, have issues with keeping standings between allied groups synced. it would be great if there is some kind of ingame standing list you can subscribe to that sits between corp and personal level (or even below personal). so first you got alliance standings, then corp, then personal, and if the person is still neutral then this standing list decides the standing it shows. i dont really see how this would be in any way related to bacon (hint: it isnt). i also think the easiest solution is to just download all standings to your client when you logon, then your client can calculate the standings (if that doesnt already happen) and there is not much of a reason to not allow infinite standing slots (really the part about downloading some standing list to your client on startup is insignificant).only cause of problems are pos's and stations, they also then need to calculate stuff with way more standings, and that has to happen server side. although docking at outposts shouldnt give that much server load, and fighting at a hostile pos the relevant standings should just be cached."
"this is the extra funny bit.it's obvious that the team-leader had read a lot of articles on \"growing the social graph\".with non-private features included to show contacts to your contacts, to allow friends to become friends and the social network to function.he obviously missed the part where 1% of that social network are the content creators when they said,\"we did an sql query and it says the 300 limit will only effect 1% of players\".limiting the social graph while spending so much on a usless social network that is ham-strung from the start?"
"yeah, i can see it being bad."
"yea, destroyersdestroy, destroy'ersi can't see salvagers in there any place, let me look againif i wanted to destroy something, what ship should i use, i need something with dps, and more dps, and a pod.hmm, cruiser it is thenhow about medium guns, or large guns and no shields or armer, that would do, oh and before hulkageddon please.thanks in advance."
"/supported"
"thrasher, that the prolem. thanks for the bump dudes."
"first of all, i did used the search box, and i didn't find anything about that, so if this topic exist, feel free to put all the bounty you want on my head in the game ^^second thing : i'm french, so i want to apologize right now for any spelling / grammar / vocabulary mistake(s)... thanks for not crucifying me for that !so, i always had a problem with my drones : they attack other groups every seconds i'm not paying attention, light drones attack big targets while there is still some light targets etc.we are supposed to have the best weapons ever conceived and our drones are not capable of making good basic combat decisions.i propose a way to configure some target priority, and be able to apply different target priority settings to each drones or drone groups. we give points to :- different types of target (frigates, battle ships...)- points to different behavior/actions (web, scramble, is locked or not...)- points for the speed- points for the distance to the target- i don't have anything else right now...the drone will attack the target with most points, and then the next one etc.and if we ask a drone to attack a target manually, it will comply and then reapply it's combats settings for the remaining targets.so, was i clear enough and did you like it ?"
"/supportalso, please allow ceos and directors to track who put in how much items in the corporate hangar arrays so that miners, looters and salvagers can make sure that their stuff won't get mixed in with other people's loot or minerals."
"the proposal is a simple one that can cut down on suicide ganking. if someone is ganked in high sec and concord takes action the victem will have 24 hours durring which he can post a bounty regardless of the players security status. to limit abuse this only applies to high sec piracy where concord takes action meaning you cant place bounties on war deccers or for loosing a duel."
"it is a good idea, if the bounty system worked. back in the day, we'd pod kill each other to get the bounties. so, people putting bounties on pirates were doing little more than giving the pirates more money."
"i'd still pod kill myself for the right bounty. i am sure i have a jump clone laying around with no implants in it."
"i would be fine with giving a -10 pirate isk suicide gankers arent real pirates they are loosers who dont feel like playing in null with the big boys"
"that is just it, with the current broken bounty system you might as well be giving them isk .. they'll just pod themselves with an alt or have one of their cowardly friends do it for them.if you really want to hurt them then ask for ccp to investigate each and every one of them .. i am willing to wager that a majority of them are recycled alts which is a huge no no."
"disclaimer: i know most of you will not like these changes. you will argue to the death with me over them, but i honestly think they will improve the game. i am writing this so that even if you argue with me over these changes you will at least see where i am coming from.#1) jump bridges - should be restricted to the alliance that owns the sovereignty in that system. do not get your panties in a bunch. this will force alliances to think about the sovereignty map and see if they really want their allies to have that system. in the long run this will force more strategic thinking and better ally selection.#2) titan bridging - should not be allowed to be done inside a pos forcefield. instead, lighting a bridge should happen outside of the forcefield. also, it should make the titan unable to move for the duration of the bridge(think dread in siege). this will do two things:1- make the fc think twice if he really needs that bridge.2- it will allow hostiles the ability to counter drop the titan. with the current mechanics, if a titan bridges a fleet onto a hostile, there is no chance for that titan to be killed. this gives it a huge power with little to no risk of dieing(kind of like the remote aoe dd).#3) local chat - remove the current version of local chat. wa wa wa! yes, instead replace it with a delayed mode regional chat. this will do a couple things. 1- it will make scouting a profession again. 2- people will have to rely heavily on their own forms of intel and constantly communicate with each other. 3-it will allow for the reintroduction of the system scanning pos array. this mod would now serve the purpose of alerting anyone in the same alliance, as that pos, the ability to see all ships currently uncloaked in that system(make it a new tab on your scanner). 4-to help scouting you could also buff the directional scan. seeing an actual cone on your tactical overlay which corresponds to the angle of your scanner would be nice. 5- this will end bots.ok, well theres the 3 major things i could see being done in the game. flame on."
"suggestion #2 is interesting, and should be looked at.suggestion #3 has been argued about ad nauseum. there are many threads about it."
"yes i agree #3 has been talked about alot.as far as #2 goes, i have a secondary thought, you could possibly even increase bridge range by 25% to counter the jb nerf in #1. this would allow titans to be extremely useful but at the same time putting them in certain danger. making logistics possible to move fleets from one side of the universe to the other, but adding a risk into it that is currently not there."
"nobody?"
"tbh i dont get the point why would one want to wardec a space holding entity in the first place. in 0.0 you can already spank em if you have the power to do so, in the few key low sec choke points as well although criminal timer might be inconvinient somewhat. it does not prevent or even disrupt their logistics as that is already taken care of by npc corp hauling alts. all it does is to make in some cases their carebears go into 0.0 and thus increase the manpower pool they can use to respond to local threats and thin out the ranks of dumb people who believe they can run quick jita trip on their main instead of using npc corp hauling alt (takes few hours to train in the spare slot for a npc corp bestower)i mean i can buy my stuff in jita with empire alt, create a courier and day or two later my stuff appears in the 0.0 station close where i live. regardless of number of wardecs. npc corp alts ftw. if i'm in hurry i can use my own hauling alt for jita trip as well and pick up the stuff with my main from a suitable low sec system by just cynoing in to a station and docking. for making life slighly inconvinient the current wardecs sort of work. 2.5 bil would be a bit too much dont you think ? current cost of wardec is kinda fine i think. considering how little real effect it has in this age of alts."
"as we all know new features from ccp have a tradition of not working right when they are released. also recurring problems have a tradition of not being fixed. ccp is always asking players to come onto sisi to test out new and upcoming additions, yet whenever i go on, the cluster rarely has a population above 300 (let me stress, when i go on, i don't know whose there when i'm not). ccp is always asking for players to come and test special events, the more the merrier. so ccp needs people to come along and test their new toys and the players, well we just want stuff fixed and the new stuff done right. i say in order to generate interest in player testing ccp hand out tranquilty sp instead of the usual sisi sp. i'm not saying a whole crap ton, certainly not 2 million and certainly a few orders of magnitude lower, i won't dare give an amount but certainly a number which will not put out those that do not show up and not give an advantage (relatively) to those that do."
"no."
"no. if you want to contribute to the future of the game, go join the testing.if not, sit om your thumbs.if you want to get persistent rewards for testing ccp's code, get a job with them."
"wow such anger."
"no, if ccp needed more testers they'd find a way without ****ing off the majority of current testers (hopefully). the reward is you get to use 2m sp on sisi to test stuff you may want to train later."
"hahaha hahano"
"first: never should sp be given to the players on the live server except in the very rare 'reimbursement' cases like the learning skills change or what happened for that incredibly long dt (which i still think we didn't deserve, but free is free...). sp is the basis of eve's play and it should never be given if at all possible as that very system of time/sp keeps eve alive and well. should sp ever be easily gained (god forbid, and ccp too!) then you'll have a repeat of what private servers for wow and other games have: players reach their peak, see what they want, and quit.second: your idea of \"compensation\" for helping on the test server may have some merit, but the problem is that many players cannot make the testing time blocks...this isn't because ccp is cruel or awful at timing, eve just has that wide of a tz base (can we say the whole world?). because of this, it is unfair for players that cannot make the tests (even if they wanted to) to be at a disadvantage to players who can. this rules out rewards that are 'gains' like isk or sp. it makes it quite hard actually to find anything in eve that players want that isn't a gain.now incarna may introduce new ideas - for example if they do implement a cosmetic system (probably for microtransactions, that's a whole different can of worms) you could compensate players with a point system or actual cosmetic items that have no inherent value except as eye candy. this is just an example.all in all though, i don't think players should be compensated for taking part in sisi on tq in any way. it's a wonderful test server that is set up very well. it imports your characters (a bonus many other games don't have) and it is easily accessible. as someone said earlier, you should try out the test server on those special events for the sp the server gives...and when it doesn't you should try out anyways! if you really love eve, you'll give some free time to help ccp make the game better. who knows, you might even have fun! at the end of the day though, if ccp feels players aren't contributing to their tests they will tell us and add in their own incentives if they so choose."
"no.sisi doesn't work for some people and it's a test-server. no action you do on sisi should ever have any implications for tq."
"jump bridge removal: nomake jump bridges usage restricted to alliance only: yessov stuff: need to change but not like that. probing: maybye...also, 3 proposals in one thread? while i semi-support one of them the others make me not support this thread..."
"really...remove jump bridges? this would turn into who can camp the most gates game, and yeah jump bridges are an advantage in being in a player run empire, again if u don't like it go to high sec. sad when people whine when they can't have the fun toys in high sec, super carriers are to op, jump bridges arn't fair, sov is to hard...."
"your lowsec protection is also called a gun and a buddy."
"technically, those scums are spamming, and it's all about isk, so the \"report isk spammer\" option is technically the right one to use.now of course ccp needs to do something about it afterwards, right? right?"
"trying to be patient, but getting antsyi'm especially interested in not only the position but the tone of both ccp and csm when it comes to the topic of bots.not to point a finger at any one from either ccp or the csm, but the cynic in me is screaming that having reps from the major alliances confronting ccp with the issue of bots is something akin to 2 ****** addicts deciding how to win the war on drugs."
"same here, especially after reading one of those (can't remember which part was it)"
"yes and yes"
"no.micro transaction will for the alpha period increase gain for ccp.but because mostly players wouldn't like it implemented, longevity of eve would be in danger. because income generation from current base of players will be diminished. in phase beta it will affect quality of gameplay for those who use mct, make it undesirable. gamma phase would make eve ftp in hope that it will lure more players in game. but because in eve all things are obtainable for purchase with rl cash, except knowledge. most of lured players would find eve r inhospitable. place with mean players who would want to exploit them. claiming vanity items for themselves or only destroying them for \"fun\" will not keep enough players to make eve, again profitable.as could be seen in current figures, differences in percent of finished trials compared with new subscriptions are wast. in delta phase eve could be profitable at the same level as before, but with new playerbase in place of current one.conclusion: it wouldn't benefit players or ccp."
"no."
"no!"
"ok, so i am sure there are toons out there that the owners would love to change the name on, both for legitimate and nefarious purposes. also, being a protagonist of ccp and of eve, i propose the following.for some fee (real currency) an account holder may opt to change a characters name.by default, the chars bio would have (a.k.a. old name) so that a corp thief cannot escape their own reputation. (quoted from suggestions later in this thread)only doable once a year, like remapssame cost as a character portrait swaphistory of name change is on the character sheethistory of name change is on the limited apican't change a name within 48 hours of leaving a corpplease consider this...dear god please!"
"don't you mean proponent?"
"no, i mean protagonist which is the nominative synonym of proponent, except that proponent lacks the element of advocacy."
"fair enough.though you just argued away the only person to post in your thread so far. ."
"this sounds like a panic attack due to impending incarna patch and realisation that poorly chosen name is going to be a millstone around the avatar's neck...oops, sorry but you should have given character creation more time than going for cheap lols if wanting character to be taken seriously.not supported."
"pretty much this. just live forever in shame with your horrible, horrible name.not supported."
"creating a name as a joke on another.realising the joke is on oneself.priceless.'nuff said."
"it is possible that this name was not chosen. i really see no harm in allowing ccp to generate more revenue by extending the ability to change a name.(supported)"
"what a great amount of forethought you have put into yours :)"
"i would also agree,being a toon that would also like to change the name....i would add one more thing to the online fee for name changing after i read your name.... (thinking of the children)a portion of the fee goes to some charity of some sick children or something.how can ccp say no to that :)"
"i don't have problems with my names, though i like the idea of a history tab for our chars.one point though.. make it bound to rl cash payments. if you allow isk to be used for name-change you support scamming behaviour on a massive scale.."
"okie,i apologize! looking at my response it certainly appeared snobby, to say the least.that was not my intent."
"you honesty has humbled me, i hereby support your proposal."
"no it really is not. only cases where a name is not a direct result of conscious thought is for the \"<race>citizenxxxxx\" cases .. and they still brought it on themselves by deliberately choosing a name that violated eve's almost non-existent naming policies.you break it, you bought it."
"actually, yes there was, thank you for noticing! mjb is a national hero of mine."
"yes, there should be option for name change, as long as change record is visible in the same way employment history is."
"hirana, we all like eve. why not help it to grow, give people another way of enjoying the game, and raise more money for eve?"
"i still say the use of the word 'protagonist' is wrong here. a protagonist does not stand alone, but is set against the background of other characters. which is to say, there's always an element of competition. either it's the 'main character' (in novels and/or movies); or 'one of the main characters.' but always with other folks in the picture too, making him/her the protagonist. 'protagonist,' in the sense of an advocate of something, obeys the same rule: it's an advocate amidst other involved parties (like detractors, for instance).'proponent' certainly doesn't lack the element of advocacy. see: proponentin fact, 'proponent' is really the word you're looking for if you want to express that you're 'pro' something (whilst being neutral about possible other parties involved).also, even \"proponent of ccp\" is not entirely proper english. you can be a proponent of ideas, or plans, change, etc; but not of a name of a company. \"i'm a proponent of the existence of ccp,\" for example, would be correct english. in the former case, you'd just say something like: \"i'm a huge supporter of ccp.\""
"as a super carrier pilot, capital fc and 0.0 fleet fc, i've had some experience with supercaps. both fighting as and against the supercap blob.the short of it is, the issue isn't with supercaps. they are fairly well balanced, given their expense, difficulty to construct, etc. the issue is with dreads.currently, i would quite happily take my single supercap against 3-4 dread's, knowing that i would win the fight (assuming they don't have support). short range fit dreads do close to sc dps (with the moros at just over 7k). however, given that the siege cycle goes for 10 mins, and that they cannot receive reps, they are easy kills.so, imho, the simple fix to supercaps is to buff dreads.* shorten their siege cycle to 5 mins.* allow them to receive remote reps when they are in siege.what will this do? it means a dread/carrier blob has a chance at beating a supercap blob. it will give more of a roll to carriers (to support dreads). it will also mean that dreads are not completely useless in large scale warfare.currently their only role is to shoot at pos's. unless you hold complete superiority its a huge risk to use them to shoot at sov structures/cap battles, a much larger risk than using a supercap.a well organized dread/carrier fleet, could counter a supercap fleet (depending on sizes etc.)"
"i like this ideal best. it feels alot like how a bs/logic's fleet can handle a dread/carrier fleet so why should a dread/carrier fleet not be made able to handle a sc/titain fleet?i have no exp. with caps. i have no real love for them. but thats becouse i only like ships that i can take everywere with me. but the ideal looks sound to me."
"this idea completely removes the buff to local repairers and makes carrier swarming that much more overpowered. the resist concept keeps dreads vulnerable, but just boost their survivability. i prefer the resist."
"increased resists / reps are impossible to scale. each sc puts out 7-10k dps. at what level would you raise the tank for the dreads so they arn't overpowerered v's groups of 1-5 sc's, but are still dog food to groups of 50-100. a well fit dread can currently tank 4-5k dps in siege mode. what would you raise that too? raise it to 8-10k...and two dreads could kill a sc (which seams op considering the value comparison), but would still be mean nothing v's 20 sc's.yes, making dreads able to receive reps in siege is going to significantly change the balance of power. however, as siege'd dreads are still useless v's subcaps, and several can still smash down any pos...i think really all your going to effect is the sc/titan v's dread/carrier balance. titans will be able to still one shot carriers / most dreads every 10 mins."
"i understand this thread and support it. i'm just thinking of an alternative to it that might bring dreads back into fights.tbh, i like what my naglfar looks like and would like to use it effectively on non-pos ops. one way to do this is to have dreads restored as an anti-supercap glass cannon.as already noted, their dps isn't lacking, so as long as they had the ability to get out if **** hits the fan (much like supercaps can currently, though moms risk losing fbs if they need to do it real fast), one could do strafing runs with sniping dreads + anti-tackle support fleet against a supercap fleet.with the recent changes to bombers, where they don't fire torpedoes until they get close to their target, sitting at range would give a dread wing enough time to fire a significant amount of dps into the supercap blob cluster**** and then bugger off, only to warp in again at a different position. this requires a good prober/warpin provider on your team, and dreads paying maximum attention. several moms yellowboxing your dread = time to drop siege and start aligning align.basically giving people that want to fly dreads a chance at participating without certain death, if nothing else.also, i'd give the siege a 15-30 sec cooldown time before the dread can warp/jump to prevent doomsdays from being useless against such strafing fleets. this would also make titans a good defense against such fleets?maybe i should start a separate thread for dreads :di also like the idea of just making siege 5 minutes and allow sieged dreads to receive reps, but this wouldn't work well in large fights imo, where dreads get 1-2 volleyed by fb swarms. seems good at first, but doesn't scale well.some fun facts: 30 torp phoenixes equal a titan's doomsday every 15 seconds. at half the titan's price. if they could do this without getting locked down by siege and then instapopped by moms they'd be rather scary imo. naglfar has similar alpha: 40k from artillery and another 40k from torps if **** survives long enough (supercaps do). maybe a script for siege module that only gives the damage mod bonus/tracking nerf for one shot/30 seconds/something, and then has a cooldown, but doesn't hamper a dread's mobility to such a large extent?"
"the problem is not really cost effectiveness, the problem is that cost effectiveness is largely irrelevant, what is way more important (especially with the amount of macro/rmt financed supercaps) is the pilot effectiveness. it is nice that 30 phoenixes are better than a titan (and not really half the price, more than that), but wouldnt it be much better if you put those 30 phoenix pilots in 30 super caps? and that is the problem, regardless of the situation and what enemy brings, super caps are pretty much always the best choice."
"no.your proposal ignore scs roles."
"if cost effectiveness is indeed irrelevant, then either supers are too cheap (nerf build cost) or too good (nerf supers themselves). maybe a mechanic like the office rents. more supers == next one costs more to build. yes, this would make them even more exclusive to rich people, but if you bring 50 dreads to drop one 1t supercap, and get slaughtered in the progress, you still end up on top as far as isk goes. and if 1t isn't enough a deterrent, make it even higher.alternatively, nerf mineral yield from all current ingame sources. it'd hardly hit tech1 hulls because of current insurance mechanic, but everything else will be getting more expensive.imo all ships that aren't basic t1 hulls should have pricetags that make them not worth flying. this is already the case when you compare tech2 cruisers and teir2 battlecruisers. people only still fly hacs because they are faster.there should be a game mechanic that adjusts the build cost of tech2/3, faction, supercap hulls depending on how fotm they are. it doesn't make any sense whatsoever from a real world view (mass production makes **** cheaper), but it's the only way i can see supercaps in their current form staying without any new counters. which is why i'm supporting the general notion in this thread, supers need a nerf, either by getting a proper counter, increasing in price or getting nerfed directly.direct nerf is also incidentally the easiest and safest to do, i'm just exploring different ways of getting to the same end.also, i'm really not sure many people rmt finance supercaps. 20bil would be 900? bux in gtc. i'd assume that makes it 500 if you buy it off some shady site. i dunno about people, but i wouldn't pay that for an internet spaceship..."
"actually the proposal doesnt, read it again.euhm, so because cost effectiveness is irrelevant you want to make them more expensive. how is that in any way helpful if cost effectiveness is largely irrelevant? it will still be irrelevant. even if you make them 100 times more expensive there will just be more macros running to finance them. the fact stays that per pilot they will always be the best option.sure you can add a new ship also to counter supercaps, make it cost 500b, that is so expensive there will never be more than a few at any time: (c) ccp. the only correct way is imo giving the ship a definite role (besides pwnmobile). for that stuff they may be good, but they also shoudl have weaknesses.supercaps are just the manifestation of bigger = better, i thought the idea behind eve was that pilot skill, ship choice and ship fitting was supposed to be better, not which side rmts more. (and if they dont rmt they are using macro alts. sure some will be bought by legimate means, but if you think those 200 supercaps that are built each month are largely financed by legimate means i got some bad news for you).btw sadly enough people would rmt 500 dollar to get one, also it isnt *that* much, look at the ammount of people with 3 accounts they pay for the normal way (so no plexes). they spend more than 500 dollar yearly on eve."
"and what is their role in your eyes?ccp clearly meant for them to be anti-capital ships but due to the nature of drone based damage they have in fact become anti-everything ships. that is not a role, that is deification.- increasing manufacturing cost will not solve the issue as it will probably just result in even more csaa being spammed in bubble-gum space.- increasing dread power through ehp and/or dps risks making them the blob-mobile of choice thus pushing supers back into pos for permanent storage.- decreasing sc power by enough for it to make a difference will most likely make them pos ornaments again.in conclusion: fixing the power imbalance of scs has to be a combination of multiple facets if untoward side-effects are to be avoided."
"well if people are running macros to finance their supercaps then the problem is elsewhere and simply nerfing price wouldn't do much (if any) difference indeed. this is then a problem at ccp though. or maybe it's just time to move to another game (as if). it's really hilarious how no matter how terrible eve is, it's still the best mmo around..i really hope ccp do something to their game, there's a bunch of competition coming up (black prophecy, miner wars, jumpgate...) and chances are maybe one of those will be worth playing over eve for most people...i currently have 4 accounts. i pay for two (main + carrier/jf/haul alt), other two i use as cyno alt accounts and use plex when i need them. using the jf intelligently can easily make me a couple bil in 1-2 weeks, so it's not a problem at all when i actively play at all. the only reason i haven't ground up to a supercap is because i don't want to have a char stuck in it, and grinding for another alt to put it in said supercap is :effort: beyond what seems reasonable to me at this point.therefore i get the whole \"price isn't an issue\", it'd take me a gigantic 2 months of 1-2 hours of playing per day to grind up enough isk for a well fitted mom. not really what i'd call expensive in an mmo environment.if macroing is really as bad as you're making it look, there's not much point in playing the game anymore for legit players like me though.edit @hirana: then let them be pos ornaments. they're clearly too effective at the moment if they're being used so much despite their price tags. whatever furb killer might say, i still think not a large percentage of moms is financed via macros. it's easy to make upwards of 80mil/hour ratting with the new anomalies, which means 200 hours (10 ingame days) nets you a mom if you're willing to grind that hard. i don't think this is balanced, therefore they need to be either nerfed, or price bumped."
"supercarries are excellent ships, and they should be, they give bittervet's something to aim for.are they overpowered in their current form?yesany simple way to fix this?yeshow? reduce their (fitted) ehp by 50%how does this bring them back in line?this makes supercarriers vulnerable to dreadnought fleets, as well as other supercarrier / titan fleets. the main problem is not that they can dish out immense amounts of pain, it's that they (properly fitted) have ehp levels that are so high that any fleets which wants to kill them, needs to bring so many people that they completely lag out the system."
"bump."
"i like."
"a change to the bonusses from ammo could be a fix. curently we have:- modified range- modified cap usage- damageadding stats like- modified tracking depending on ammo (less for long range, more for close range for abvious reasons like angular velocity)- adding different damage types like projectiles (some slugs could have em added - lore-wise the metal / alloy used creates an electromagnetic cascade on a hit)something like that might help hybrids."
"boost railguns or reduce fitting/cap requirements to meet their fail performance in the field.artillery has 3x alpha advantage, no cap usage, 10 sec ammo swaplasers have 50% tracking advantage, use cap, immediate ammo swap.railguns have no relative advantage, use some cap, and take 10 seconds to swap ammo.where's the railgun advantage? what's its schtick?"
"seriously wt* ccp!i pay for these accounts and you want me to join facebot to vote?"
"i was happy to hear the voting on the ship designs finally started. in the waiting period, between the scheduled beginning and the actual one, i already began to lose interest in the thing. having to have a facebook account to vote gave me the rest and i said to myself \"alright, i've had it with this\" i wonder how many votes will determine the winner of that contest."
"supported."
"looks like a criminal conspiracy to me. since it's the american government, however, they get away with it. but seeing this, i can only urge everyone to boycot facebook."
"i lol'd at this vid on facebook... and i lol'd at the reaction of people on this forum about that vid! are people really so dumb as to not realise this stuff goes on??i guess people think that if they make a facebook profile with their name and email address, the cia and corporate companies will magically know their social security number, full bank account details, sexual deficiencies, plus any and every thought you may have ever had that could be considered non politically correct(non-pc). this isnt so!yes they cross reference from other sources but they can only know what you tell them. and seriously if you are not surfing the web with sufficient up to date virus software and anti-malware/spyware software then ur a complete fool and should expect your emails to be hacked, your digital identity to be stolen and your bank accounts to be drained of funds illegally."
"or, don't put up on facebook what you don't want the whole world to know. half of my friends don't even use their real names. heck, i'm thinking about making one for this character. would be fun and confusing status changes."
"the increased size of the development staff is largely to provide resources to games other than eve. good for ccp. they should try to find other sources of income outside the primary cash cow of eve. its diversification and that protects the overall health of the company. no argument. however, those decisions are ccps and if they back themselves into a corner, thats their doing, not ours.ccp should be creative in finding new customers. they could use them. heres a creative idea. fix the things in eve that have been on the backlog for freaking ever. fix the current content so it actually works as intended. stop breaking the game every time a release comes out. that would be novel. then wed be able to tell our friends that we play a game that isnt perpetually broken and that might get more customers as well as retain the ones theyve already got.no. this whole facebook like feature is the personification of ccps cavalier treatment of their customers. they could have extended the voting to facebook as well as have a way for their current customers to vote without joining facebook. alternately they could have had two separate votes. instead, they tell their customers, we want you to join facebook to vote so that we can create a buzz that might attract new customers and we really dont care if you have an aversion to facebook. join facebook or be barred from participation.ccp has an unfortunate tendency to try to manipulate their customers rather than entice them or if enticement fails, to strong arm them. for some time now ccp has had a facebook section and invited eve players to join. the turnout has been less than spectacular. so now they introduce an eve event that requires joining facebook. the first of many to come?subscribers to eve, current customers of ccp, pay for eve. they pay with the expectation that they will have access to everything in eve without further requirements from ccp.-windjammer"
"firstly, how about you dont bold and underline a personal opinion of the state of all eve's subscribers assumptions unless you've polled such a thing and linked it with proper citation. especially when its done in such a way as to appear like a proven fact! i would love access to eve onlines source-code but i dont think im gonna get it!secondly, thats all fair and well in a fair and just world where every1 is truthfull and mindfull of everyone else... but look around you... millions's die for no reason at all... billions are taken advantage of because they can be, and most arent even aware of these because they dont enter our daily lives. if u wanna complain to ccp about doing things you didnt expect them to do and find out that you cannot bring them to account, then i suggest you take a look at yourself at how trusting u are to eula's u blindly accept.but of course u can always use the scapegoat of being part of a society annoyed at long teadious \"terms of agreement\" that always find their ways into software installations, and the compultion to ignore it and just click \"accept\".assumption is the mother of all f**k ups, and it seems that you're very much hurting from disregarding that fact."
"the measure of success, with regard to facebook gathering information about you, which you did not yourself provide, could perhaps be said to be somewhat limited; but the intent to do so is downright disturbing. especially when goverment agencies lile cia and fbi are involved. it's one thing that facebook reads your private communication, so they can tailer-push ads on you. but a whole social network, backed and funded by us government agencies, apparently created for the sole purpose of gathering intel on people, well, that's a criminal conspiracy in my book.did i not realize this was going on? no, actually. i knew it was bad; but this is downright unacceptable. funny you should mention 'going on,' btw, as the latter, of course, is something we can do something about. namely, by not using facebook; and to urge others to do the same."
"not wanting to get in the middle of a rather entertaining argument, helpfully keeping this thread nice and visible, but... while i personally dislike facebook (as do many others as demonstrated here) this is not a referendum on the merits of facebook per say. claiming it is a spying tool for the cia whether true or not is not giving us the credability i was aiming for. i, as a subscription paying customer of ccp simply want to be able to participate in an eve related competition without having to join any third party website good or bad. the fact that many people have a deep and well founded dislike of facebook just adds insult to injury. i don't care why ccp decided to host the vote on facebook. i don't care if its a publicity exercise in getting more customers, or they are just too lazy to code their own voting mechanism... whatever their reason, i believe that not giving us the option of using in house voting without having to join a third party website is wrong. i created this thread to convey this opinion to ccp and see if anyone else agreed.i am deeply gratified that not only do a good number of people agree but are prepared to take the time to post in this thread in support.given that i would like to suggest that ccp a) responds to explain themselves, and b) gives us the ability to vote on the many well designed spaceships their customers have spent many hours on producing without having to join facebook (preferably with an extension to the voting period to allow for the time they take to rectify this oversight). i don't expect to get either of those so i hope that you will all continue to support this thread till they do."
"i want my pizza box to have a minmatar ship designs on it. ill save them as art for my walls."
"hmm pizza"
"can we get escort girls for plex next?"
"i'm so disappointed, i might run for csm just to bring this one up again."
"eve tourism is suffering from neglection.i support this suggestion, in addition - i should be able to see the following landmarks:point of no return ginnungagap (\"the black hole can be seen very clearly in the konora system\", but it can't!)vapor seathe cauldrontrace cosmospool of radiancecord of the elements"
"sounds good to me"
"i really like this idea. as one who likes to explore i can see a real upside to this."
"supported. :d"
"needed"
"sounds very good"
"bump"
"how about applying the \"desktop girl\" technology to eve? heh"
"yes, this is the primary problem. they can dock or jump instantly. they can repping without danger."
"i support this topic but it's more i think a flaw in armor tanking ships as amarr have the same problems as gallente with armor tanks but they have pulse lazers that help make up for it. and fixing gallente ships still leaves caldire gun ships hanging as well."
"i agree. solution 1 seems best, just make the grid comparable to other tier 3 ships. the current state is that the abaddon and the mael have 21k grid, the hyp 15.750 and the rokh 15k.i propose 21k baddon, 21k mael, 20k hyp, 19k rokh.this should be equalised throughout the ship sizes and tiers (abolish tiers) for all gun-based ships. drone and missile based ships need less fitting, and should be looked at seperately."
"the big issue with gallente ships is that they were designed around the game as it was before a large number of changes happened, and the new ships since then have been given roles and bonuses that are 'left over' after the other three factions were created. take info warfare links and some of the utterly nonsensical roles dished out for the sin and kronos:those two ships are quite literally the wrong way around as the megathron-based kronos would make for a better black ops ship than the sin, and a marauder based around the dominix would have been a far better preposition than the idiotic application of blasters and non-range bonused stasis webs to pve mission running.gallente are a complex race that are exceptionally difficult to balance as the game mechanics are arguably too simplistic for most of their gimmicks to work properly. i.e - blasters don't perform due to the chance to hit/sig radius/'side of barn' mechanics, drones don't perform due to code issues and server lag, railguns don't perform .. because, well.. they were obviously added at the last minute because someone realized without a token long-range weapon nobody would have a reason to bother flying gallente. ever.local active tanking is broken by the disparity because of several factors including the effectiveness of logistics or capital support and the problems involved with mitigating incoming dps in almost any engagement - because it's very rare to see fights involving less than five players these days. the ability to tank even 1,000 dps pales in comparison to being on the business end of two battlecruisers, for instance. this means that buffer tanking with remote rep support is the only effective way to fly, which means any hull with an active tank bonus is relegated to solo pve activities (at best).i've had some success flying some gallentean ships in pvp small-gang warfare.the taranis is a bruiser of an interceptor that can dish out some extreme dps if it gets closethe lachesis is a fantastic tackle as long as it's backed by some decent supportthe ishtar kicks butt in its intended role, although i don't fly it often outside of pvea properly-fit killdozer dominix will slaughter anything stupid enough to engage in scram/web range.but these examples are few and far between. the faction has many, many more broken and useless ships, and i've covered nowhere near all the examples. i would strongly encourage both ccp and the csm to take up the issue and find a way to re-design gallentean ships so that they are more tuned with the game as it is now, not how the game was in 2006."
"battleships absolutely need some rebalancing. in 0.0 you don't often see battleships unless it's in large fleets (alpha maelstroms for example) because the cost/benefit of battlecruisers, drakes and canes specifically, is just more attractive. i can get a decent tank out of a drake and enough dps to kill pretty much whatever comes through a gate for under a hundred mill, fittings included. a fully fitted battleship on the other hand costs signifigantly more and are really useless against anything smaller than a battlecruiser because of a: tracking speeds of large guns, b: cap stability and vulnerability to nos/neuts, & c: speed/maneuverability. a battleship is rarely afforded the chance to determine the range at which an engagement will take place. smaller/faster ships always move to their optimal and start orbiting inside the tracking. at that point, you may as well be throwing cans out the window at them for all the damage your guns will do. battlships should by all rights be the scourge of any battlefield. come on ccp, make the battleships the harbingers of doom and destruction they're supposed to be. i don't even care if they cost twice as much per hull, as long as a 5 man cruiser gang coming in sees an abbadon on the gate and their immediate reaction is \"run!!!\""
"gallente or hybrids do need some looking at. ccp have accepted the notion i believe but cannot decide on a good enough answer at present./supportp.s been a while, max. :-)"
"gallente ships need to be the fastest to use blasters effectively yes faster then minmatar no minmatar does not loose their roll or anything as they have a much better range on their guns as gallente and as gallente blaster ships can't kite they should not be able to get kited also some of their ships need a general buffhyperion and brutix those two ships suffer from bad fitting stats and their active tank bonuses imo their active tank bonuses should be changed to resit bonuses that would buff those ships overall and make them more useful but the best thing would probably be to buff their active tank bonus so they can get a good tank even with only one reper"
"we'll see if ccp does anything to fix this, doesn't seem they care about doing it."
"he's actually proposing a ~33% increase in tracking.... he just doesn't know it because he doesn't know how turrets really work."
"of course it does. it's right there in front of your eyes in plain maths."
"we need a properly indexed hybrids/gallente rollup thread.supported because i want the issue looked into - but i don't really think a stats boost is the answer."
"this is false. many \"carebear\" corps in highsec are corps with mostly new or maybe 1-2 month old characters. from sp alone, they can't compete with the players who have been going on for years. it is funny to watch a carebear corp cascade out of a station, in t1 frigates no less, but it is important to remember that these are new players that need to learn the game, and not just be roflstomped out of existence in the very short time they've had to play the game, especially when they have absolutely no chance of even defending themselves in the least. griefing has it's place in eve, but a certain delicate touch needs to be used when dealing with the carebear corps in highsec due to the reason mentioned above. however, i think 500 mil is a bit steep, so i would suggest something closer to 100 mil so that the much smaller corps will still have the option open."
"to be fair even 100mil is still a little steep for corp to corp war, most corps that dec regularly dec several corps at once, so what by the 5th corp you will be paying over bil in total"
"while it's instantly available to merely leave corp as required, and rejoin as desired, at no cost whatsoever, we should only ever be considering revising the price of wars downwards.when the costs to avoid war start exceeding the cost to start them, then we can listen to what you have to say."
"you got the number wrong. wardeccing a noob highsec corp is only 2 mil. it's higher only if you dec large alliances or have multiple decs going at once. 2 mil is chump change by anyone's standards.if it had been 50 mils to dec a corp, it would still be on the low side, but considering increases from multiple decs, it may be enough to deter dec spamming highsec noob corps for the purpose of kb-padding. as it is now, anyone can just go shoot a rat to finance a wardec."
"except that in eve all concord officers are on the take, they're not even being covert about it!"
"or make a filter like the overview that would allow you to turn off sensor booster effects, but not eccm or tracking computers, while turning off gas clouds"
"i'd really love it if these were toned down.... alot.... i'd also like to be able to disable the background nebula incorporated into the star field, sometimes i'd just preferr good ol' black space (+stars).... and a more reasonable 'sun' for systems, from 20au away it simply shouldn't be a supergigantic traffic flare like it is now./rant"
"indeed!i get a 300% increase in frame rate by pointing the camera away from the clouds, and another 300% increase in framerate by pulling the camera back from the ship model when it's being shot at or running shield hardeners."
"i support this.i honestly don't think they're that good looking in the first place. rather bland-looking and just a cpu hog imo...."
"do this please"
"i'll take an option to disable the clouds, an option to reduce the sun glare, an option to turn off backgrounds in favor of black space, and an option to alter the space color please.regarding the last, sorry, space is too dark, and my room is too bright. i much prefer a look like homeworld 2 had, with the bright, vibrant space backgrounds(in mostly solid colors)."
"this please.every now and then i have to use my old laptop for eve and the gas clouds really hurt the performance."
"my mac can on a good day give me 30 fps.enter a complex scene, and i get... 27 fps.get into the vicinity of nothing except one cloud/nebula and i get... 5 fps.it's ridiculous. there's no graphic setting to reduce the cloud complexity to a sane level. only thing i can do is zoom out 100km and play the game purely on overview data. sucks.i get the same effect if i look closely at an asteroid being mined... what in a laser impact uses that kind of gpu power?totally signed."
"supporting."
"even for people with newer computers the 1080 and 720p resolutions for big screen moniters can even tax the best gaming laptops."
"yes.also lets turn off the sun if we want to."
"these clouds are an embarrassingly bad legacy graphic and need to be reworked or disposed of.supported."
"yes. this would make things so much easier."
"."
"why do we have the ability to have 3 characters on one account but can not train all three at the same time? i would like to be able to train them all three at the same time. i have a feeling it would bring more people to eve if this were possible. i have never understood why it was not set up this way to begin with. at this moment i have 2 on the same account both training. one is my main a caldari missile specialist and the other i am training for manufacturing. i have to pause the training on one to train the other. that is such a hassle really. i feel if we could at lest train 2 at the same time would be so great. i would even go so far as to say i think a lot of people would find this extremely helpful. i know i would! just wanted to bring this to the councils attention and maybe see something done about it. thanks for your time"
"paragraphs ftw.but yeah i find it a hassle too."
"as soon as you can find me one other mmo that let's you train two characters on the same account at the same time i'll buy your argument.think of it this way...currently, if you want to train two characters at the same time, you have to have two accounts, which means 2x the subscription fees for ccp.what part of you really thinks they're going to say \"meh, we didn't want that money anyway?\""
"you can't play two characters on one account the same time in world of warcraft, star trek online, aion or fallen earth so i don't see why we should be able to here. besides the last thing we need is a thousand alts spammed on the character bazaar enabling every idiot to fly carriers into lowsec with no experience.. wait.. i do want that."
"sure, just add a divider to the training speeds of all characters, equal to the number of characters who are training simutaniously on that account.if you want them all to train at full speed, then lol no."
"the session change when jumping between systems is handled rather cheaply.lets have some nice graphic effects like you see in the movies while the client loads up the new session off screen rather than the cheap and nasty pop up box.i remember being hugely disappoint by the wormhole effect when jumping between systems 6 years ago when i started playing ( there wasnt one ).eve was new back then and i thought to myself its probably not a priority item for a new game the pop up is obviosley somekind of placeholder while they develop something better.lol i guess i was wrong about that.eve is now a mature product and should not have these unpolished edges anymore."
"smotftw"
"it is rather crappy, but i guess people get used to it very quickly, it usually doesn't last long and it doesn't affect enjoyment of the game in a serious way. i don't see a reason not to change it for better though, and it propably wouldn't take much work to implement."
"great, wonderful idea.the thing is though, i'm pretty sure, ccp is pretty fukking busy, this would probably have gotten done regardless it's just they're busy with more important ****e, like walking in stations. we gotta be patient, too bad we'll be dead before eve is a finished game :p"
"very good would probably add more feeling in2 the game aswell :)"
"it takes ccp 2 years just to change the cyno jump effectsit's very naive to think they are capable of doing this extra work"
"add me.. but dont let it cost extra money. why that ? its not only the user interest, its ccp interest that users can login safely without fear their accounts can get hacked easily."
"supported.+1"
"how much money do you need to spend before you feel secure?my bank doesn't feel it necessary to protect with unnecessary hardware, and i rather imagine they're a lot better at account security than ccp or the op."
"i can support this!"
"if they are to only remove a system or two from local its not going to be an effective test. remove local through out (0.0) eve or dont do it at all."
"look it this way. if t2 bpos dont have advantage, do you really think that there would be people who are desperate to keep them?i wrote on akita t topic in science forum why i believe they should be removed, until now, my observations are undisputed. but while i believe that t2 bpos should be removed i believe that reimbursement to owners of t2 bpos would be fair."
"t2 bpo's do have an advantage, an advantage every player in eve can have, if they buy one of the many for sale on the forums daily.removing them \"fairly\" isn't as simple as giving the owners 3 years profit. as you can see some bpo's sell for 1 year profit others can sell for up to 7 years profit. not everything is so black and white, the \"issue\" of t2 bpo's certainly isn't as well.anyone can afford a t2 bpo if they but just a tiny bit of work in. people still think that there are some massive advantages to t2 bpo's when in reality there is only added convenience for a high price. same as anyone can afford 100m sp chars if they put some work in. yes even those old unique ships in eve given out as prizes for events. those can be used in alliance tournaments, wouldn't that seem like an unfair advantage to the opposing team? don't see anybody asking to remove those?t2 bpo are also in some cases just collectors items."
"not all tech 2 bpos are unfair in a market and production perspective but there are a few that are, for example the production of 100 tech ii mining crystals of veldspar, scordite, plagioclase, omber or pyroxeres. tech ii bpo*no copy hassle - no job slots needed*no invention hassle - no job slots needed*production 100 runs per batch?  duration 35 hours per blueprint of 100 runs - 1 manufacture slottotal duration: 35 hours?tech i bpo*copying 20 blueprints with maximum runs = 100  duration 6-7 days - 1 copy slot*inventing 50% invention chance (with max skills)  duration 6 hours 40 minutes per blueprint - 10 runs left per blueprint - 20 invention slots  on average 10 tech ii blueprints left  (there are no meta items to increase invention chance  decryptors for mining crystals adds 8-30 million isk extra cost, most of the time not worth it if you want to compete on the market)*production  duration 3 hours 30 minutes per blueprint of 10 runs - 10 manufacture slotstotal duration maximum: 168 + 133 + 35 = 336 hours (approximately)total duration minimum: 144 + 13.3 + 3.5 = 160.8 hours (all job slots are available to character)producing tech ii mining crystals from a tech i blueprint bpo takes up a lot more time and effort in comparison to a tech ii bpo. next to that there are 4-5 widely used mining crystals, the amount of work to keep all supplied for the markets increases significantly. in this case the numbers add up, the amount of crystals needed on a regular basis makes the tech ii bpo variant much more favourable.my view is that the tech ii blueprint originals are denying the potential and possibility for (new) inventors to become a profitable (mini) profession on all tech ii matters. future changes to invention will try to nullify the current tech 2 blueprint original advantage, in that respect it would be better to remove it and replace it with a better system, i.e work, time and investment equality for all inventors, to let the profession really flourish."
"it looks to me that high me/pe levels of researched t2 bpos are a little bit more than just an added convenience... or not having to invest your skill training time in training invention skills to an acceptable level, not having the lottery based invention, not having to own or copy t1 bpos, not having to invest in a pos and fuel to do all the copying of t1 bpos, not having to spend time buying and hauling datacores, not having to split your character's skill limited research slots on invention and copying (because they all fall into \"research\" category), not having to buy utterly expensive decryptors for getting a chance to get a better copy while drastically reducing your invention lottery chance, not having to deal with ridiculous invention timers for modules which requires you to be online every 2 hours if you ever want to start getting profit from your investment in a reasonable amount of time... the list goes on and on. yeah... it's just a slight \"convenience\" i'm disappointed in you, grendell. i thought you actually knew how this game works. instead, you just happen to have a lot of isk because of your third party service and nothing more.and the price is high because t2 bpos are relics from the past.my support for this suggestion still stands."
"supported. however, i don't think the actual game items should be removed, just made so that they cannot function, as they still have value as collector's items."
"let's see your point one at a time:- high me levels: partially true for ships but look the research time, for modules it mean that the builder use slightly less asteroids minerals as the t2 components aren't influenced by me (i repeat, for modules)- high pe levels: again, look the research time. you are speaking of an advantage on 1 build line out of 11 (unless the guy has invested hundred of billions and own several bpo); - having to invest your skill training time in training invention skills: in exchange you have to train for the skills needed for me/pe research. check them. researching a bpo require more skill and at a higher level than inventing it. - not having to split your character's skill limited research slots on invention and copying: you don't use a barely trained alt for the copy job? there is no need to use a highly trained char for that. - not having to invest in a pos and fuel to do all the copying of t1 bpos: ok - not having to buy decryptors: not used for modules and most of the ships. when you use them it is worth using them. - 2 hours module invention timer: what is exactly the complain?yes, for the price it is a \"slight convenience\" that will pay back in several years. it go above slight convenience only if you have hundreds of billion to invest and buy multiple bpo. at that point you don't have the time to manage your isk to get better returns so it become a worthwhile investment. on the other hand it is the only investment in game for people with multiple hundreds of billions. till some investment worth in that ballpark is put in game the t2 bpo have a function for those players."
"support. and i wanna see other people's ships docked in the station too."
"we had this option a while back, i'm not sure why they removed it."
"i love you  best comment of the year, you just made my day /signed"
"incoldblood suggested something in this thread that i think has merit.all hybrid weapons become \"blasters\" (i.e. railguns of a given size are automatically converted into blasters of a like size and type).these weapons perform as railguns if loaded with a certain ammo type (sabot comes to mind) and perform as blasters with another type loaded. increase the reload times a bit if you must and have the ammunition confer the appropriate tracking, damage, rof and range modifications to the weapon to make it perform just as the current weapons do.the upside is that no re-balancing is required. presto, two crappy systems combine to make one viable one."
"i believe medium and large neut drop rates need to be adjusted, specifically for the meta 4 versions. the meta 4 medium energy neut is exceptionally rare. it's much like what yt mwd's used to be. as such, they cost roughly 11m isk at this moment at any major trade hub. they should cost more than t2 given equal stats and lesser fitting requirements, but not that much more.on the opposite end of the spectrum is the meta 4 heavy energy neut, it drops stupidly often. so often in fact that the meta 4 heavy neut costs only 300k isk, a meta 0 costs about the same. given that it's equal to t2 with less fitting requirements, i think it should cost more than the t2 version. but this just isn't the case due to its high drop rate. i looked at it in amarr today and i could buy 4x meta 4 heavy neuts for the price of a single t2 heavy neut.another problematic drop rate is the republic fleet captain tag. it's supposed to be a low level tag (thus really cheap) but in reality it's as rare as the 5m isk admiral tag. given that many lp store items require dozens of them, the drop rate needs to be significantly increased to make a number of amarr lp store items more viable for production. i don't think i've seen a single one of these tags drop in the past 6 months of killing minmatar npc's in lvl5's. get dozens of commander and high captain tags per mission but never a regular captain. i suggest replacing 3/4 of the high captain tag drops with regular captain drops. alternatively they could be paired so they drop one of each or something.i know this isn't an exciting or even interesting proposal, just one of those minor details that would help out a lot if addressed."
"i agree, someone also needs to look at the drop rate between meta 4 cruiser and battleship sized weapons.the price difference is 10mil in favour of the bs weapons with cruiser guns costing up to 15mil a peice."
"just bring back the pre-tyrannis drop table. it's well balanced as is. instead of proportional nerf, they introduced a new unbalanced table for lol-nerf. to rub it in, macrominers filled the gap, maintaining the low mineral prices, so missioner nerf ended up being a macro-buff instead of helping human miners."
"spot the obvious mistakedrone - speed - damage x - trackinghobgob ii - 3360 - 1.92 - 2.178hornet ii - 3840 - 1.74 - 2.520acolyte ii - 4560 - 1.38? - 2.964warrior ii - 5040 - 1.56? - 3.240why warriors are so good and acolytes are so lame.the warrior has the acolytes damage modifer and vica versa.*faster the drone the better the tracking and the lower the damage modifierthis statement makes sense ( at least to me )this statement would also be true if acolyte and warrior dm's were swapped.was this a mistake when drone stats were originally entered ??"
"because amarr have huge high damage laser beams that use no ammo, racially they're a bit crap at designing drones."
"you mean amar laserboats actually use amarr drones? as opposed to... minimatar drones."
"supported, all drone types should be viable. i use 3 out of 4 racial drones, guess which ones i skip."
"supported"
"like when i turn off my afterburner, why doesn't it just turn off? i gotta wait like 10 seconds or some crap? same with when i turn on the heat.i'm supposed to know 10 seconds in advance in the middle of an intense fight that i need to overheat my afterburner? it would've changed the outcome of some fights if my modules did what i told them to do, when i told them to do it.honestly, it's pretty ******ed that it would behave this why... like who thought of that?"
"because the cycle haven't ended?"
"so... you think it's fine the way it is? lol"
"not true. one bonused sentry outdamage and far outrange one small gun. not to mention it's not one sentry per frig, but several, and some frigs have more high slots than gun slots, which can be fitted with tractors but not guns. btw, the noctis can be buffered pretty good, viable with logi."
"the aesthetics of the game would be all over the place if they kept them in game.just capture portrait and store it in a few places so you don't loose it if you are that worried."
"from what ive seen id rather keep my avatar than create another one. i support this tell the new character creater has a lot more hair and body styles, as i look at the utube videos im left thinking, wow how they all look the same. and im sure walking around in station is a pipe dream. it's never going to happen."
"i'm with this. times change and this time it's your avatar's turn to change. you can hold on to your old portrait privately, as many people will do, but i see no reason to keep any of the old stuff in the game. if the new cc lacks options, it would be much more constructive to suggest to ccp that they need to add those missing options to the cc and try to improve the system until people find it satisfactory.not supported."
"supported."
"how many people actually use this mouse? i only ask because if we're asking them to support devices that nobody uses then i want them to support one of those motion sensing things that consoles use, so i can flail my arms around to make missiles fire."
"this would probably suffer the same fate as trackir if ccp even put it in."
"given someone at ccp thought it was a good idea to waste time making sure the eve client worked with the blinky flashy lights on a few alienware computers, this proposal might actually have some traction.i remember when these controllers first came out.. was thinking about grabbing one soon."
"hear, hear!"
"unless ccp changed it recently, jumpcloaks currently last 60 seconds on tranquility.supported.let a ship transition from jumpcloak to it's onboard cloaking device without being directly visible. if needed for game balance, then a non-decloaking object called a \"jump signature\" can be created on the ship's position that anyone can approach. this \"jump signature\" would appear either when the cloaked ship starts moving or 60 seconds after jumping into the system, whichever happens first. (that is, this \"jump signature\" would appear on cloaked ships whenever the jumpcloak would have broken.)"
"not supported.i can currently catch roughly 30% of all the cloaky transports that jump into my lowsec gate blind unscouted (i.e. the way you should never jump into lowsec). if this gets changed, the number automatically goes to roughly 0, unless the person jumping crashes/disconnects/whatever."
"the only difference to a lottery here is that your chance of winning does not decrease with the number of participants. and introducing more t2 bpos into the system is still one of the worst possible \"fixes\". why do you think ccp stopped the introduction of more?"
"1.0"
"i see what you did there op, supported i, too, am lolling at the sheep who didn't read the op.also, this is actually a fix the bloody industry interface already thread for those of you who read down to here and still don't get it."
"i am convinced that ccp does have a way of dealing with the bots since they have done it before (on a much smaller scale), they just refuse to do so. the reason they wont is twofold. first bots are still accounts and ccp wants to show off how many accounts subscribe to the game and they want the cluster to be as populated as possible (waiting on busting through 70,000). second, people are right and bots are possibly the largest producer of minerals in the game. so what would happen if ccp removed all bots? the mineral market would tank due to lack of supply, and prices would shoot up like crazy, prices would skyrocket. now this is not really a problem for existing players who have seen astronomically high prices, but those high prices were back in 2005 when everyone had low skills, now its 2011 and people have brawndo skills.ccp does not want to dump brand new players into an environment where prices are through the roof and where other players have an 8 year advantage against them. while neither problem presents itself as major to us current players, to a new player it could seem like swimming with sharks in the middle of the pacific.of course if botters were done away with, then mining would become an extremely profitable profession once again.ccp is a business and they are smart, they know existing players don't care enough to leave, so they will focus on getting new players in."
"all they'd need to do is bring back the npc buy & sell orders as a relief valve. let npcs buy & sell the 8 minerals, ice products & p0 pi goods with the price control slider in the hands of the good dr e. so he can adjust price caps & floors as required to keep the economy from grinding to a halt.a broad price bracket like: jita trit buy@1.2 sell@4.5 would allow for some pretty dramatic price swings before the npcs kicked in. as long as things are working, then the player economy will continue without the npcs as it does today. if moving numbers start getting close to a cap, the economic team can look at why and decide if they should let the npcs catch the price, or if the fundamentals are sound and the price cap needs to be moved. if the sky starts falling or the floor blows up, the npcs can catch the pieces, contain the damage & keep the game from choking on its greatest feature until ccp can put eve back on track."
"very true. but then those that are convinced that eve is a player run economy will cry when they realize ccp is directly interfering (which they do anyways now)"
"@atra hasis speaking only for myself, i'd rather have a player driven economy with npc safety nets on core products than a bot driven economy that floats free."
"what is this i don't evenanchoring ships or especially supercaps inside poses might be interesting. there's so many +/- here though, and it's also not something i'm really experienced in.so anyone interested in discussing this a bit more would be appreciated. i'm trying to figure out from design perspective why it is the way it is (people need acct dedicated to a ship... bumping = balance somehow?), so please speak up. :)"
"don't forget to balance this against the whole, \"this capsuleer is the most evil, vile, reprehensible entity in all of known space - responsible for the enslavement of entire planets, the destruction of countless of our fleets, and the advancement of our mortal enemies\" thing.the faction/corporation reactions to your capsuleer are represented by the standings system. if you help a faction or its allies, your \"standing\" with them goes up - they're willing to pay you more to retain you. at the same time their enemies revile you more - to the point that they will stop offering you any work at all.when you're at the bottom of the ****-pile, you get the really poor \"capsuleer welfare\" jobs, because nobody likes you. you start on the metaphorical \"ground floor\" and have to work your way up.if you train the \"social\" and \"connections\" skills, you'll have a much easier time of climbing that corporate ladder. you yourself are not a valuable asset, you are merely an egger, working for whoever pays you the most. the corporations realise that, and will take advantage of their power position.you are not special and unique. you are merely one of tens of thousands of capsuleers. don't go expecting some kind of royal treatment when you are the thing most mortals despise. sure, we're extremely powerful and immortal - from the mortal person's point of view we're the very lowest of mercenaries, acting with absolute disregard for the lives of the people in our employ, or indeed anyone who is not a capsuleer."
"treat posting in local as advertising. to post, one must pay (number of people in local)<U+FFFD>100 isk. :)"
"teadaze passed the word that they sent the first release candidate back for a reedit so it might be a couple more days."
"hopefully this won't delay the release too badly, but in their current state they don't accurately reflect the csm concerns in a couple of sessions.once the edits are agreed there is a system taking a couple of days for the ccp community team to process and release them."
"+1 omg!what an amazingly crazy man."
"there is a place - a magical place - on the eve online website where one person can write new content, and others can edit it over time. once the article is published it has its own life, independent of its creator.that magical place .... is the evelopedia!... but the csm stuff is a maze of links, would anyone complain if someone was to go in there and provide meaning full organisation to it?such as headings for each csm session linking to the members and the issues raised for each csm (ie: one link to 'members of the ... csm' and another to 'csm ... candidacy') which you currently do have to burrow a bit to find.then we could update the members list to link their player name to their blog. perhaps add the csm devblog to the main csm page?i'll work on it over the next few hours, once i get home from work."
"i showed my shiny new reacting pos to my mum and she said, \"hey look! it is just like your bedroom, only in space!\""
"support this idea"
"yes!"
"*flog*"
"+1 to this fix this **** already."
"nowhile cosmetic only would not break it game it would annoy me having to pay <U+FFFD>1 every time a new update came out releasing something that would better suit my character."
"no"
"ok, point taken. however, think of it this way. you may be a proponent of (for example) peace. you would not be a protagonist of peace, however, unless you took some form of action to bring it about...which i do for eve. i dabble in fiction, i subscribe, i get others to subscribe. to me that is a tad more than just a proponent of eve."
"because eve is unique in the respect that it does not cater to the instant gratification crowd like practically all competitors.eve rewards perseverance, intelligence, people skills etc., once you start down the path of rewarding (more than already) whomever has more cash to burn in real life eve may make more money but it will be worse for it.what would be next? sp for isk? ships/mods for isk? how about a store like those of the free-to-play games?if you **** up in eve, tough ****. you get up and go out mess someone else up to make yourself feel better .. it is the human way, it is the eve way."
"i'm fine with them murdering caps it just silly that they can do the same to subcaps without any support fleet of their own."
"as all our current appearances are more or less shuffled into new options in the editor, let us shuffle our bloodlines accordingly to find a new \"best\" portrait that suits our preferences.i don't see why not."
"good god, this is...brilliant"
"there is no reason for the melons and wangs to be more prominent than they already are in the character creator. the only difference is that guys can have melons and girls can have wangs.the gender ambiguity simply allows for a wider range of artistic expression. we already have men \"dressing as\" women (generating female characters), we have women \"dressing as\" men, so why not allow some mix and match in that costume selection?\"clothing optional\" scenes are a separate issue. we will have bars run by players, complete with strippers eventually (in the \"next iteration\" of incarna no doubt) so why can't gallente clubs have the appropriate style of stripper? no doubt matari strip clubs will feature heavily tattooed dancers, while caldari will no doubt feature very expensive bodies of some form or another. what exactly constitutes \"exotic dancing\" in amarr establishments is left as an exercise for the reader, but no doubt involves scripture-inspired interpretive dance."
"i'm going to say that i support this, but i really am somewhat on the fence about it, and this is mostly because i do not want to see this game go into a tailspin and get crapped on by the american media. after all, the american subscriber base is a very large portion of eve's total subscriber base.however, what i am mainly concerned about is what the media attention will result in. such content would be deemed very inappropriate by certain parties in the u.s., which might result in the game receiving an ao rating. this would kill eve in the u.s.even with all of this being said, i support this for one very good reason. sexual topics and differences are not something that should be a taboo subject in american culture, but rather something to be explored. there are younger children who should not be exposed to strip bars and such environments, but honestly i think something like this would be a small move for the u.s. to a better set of cultural ideals that don't idealize violence and abstain from all sexual topics.with that being said, add prostitutes just for realism please. i don't understand what it is with mass effect and not having pro's, but having all sorts of nasty bars and such...edit: also, it should be noted for all that once incarna goes live, there's a good chance that the female portion of the subscriber base will shoot up, just because eve won't be purely about space ships and such, but avatars also. just something that should be mentioned."
"*bump for love*"
"agreed...mining was terrible. i used to do it b4 realizing that everyone i was mining with was either afk or a bot."
"i 100% agree with the op. forcing us to use facebook was a bad, and actually rather insulting, move, in my opinion."
"how about i post the way i choose, you refrain from directing me and generally cool your jets. you seem to be getting a little excited. you dont need source code to discern common sense.youre arguing rights under the law. im arguing ethics and customer relations/public relations. your argument is that people are taken advantage of and as long as its legal, its okay. or if you can get away with it, its okay. given that, i can understand why youre having difficulty understanding peoples objection to facebook or what ccp has done here with facebook.im not arguing rights or law. if ccp wanted to hold the votes for the csm entirely and exclusively on facebook, they could do it. its their right and it would be legal. if ccp wanted to charge for each expansion, they could do it. its their right and it would be legal. why dont they do these things? the first is not that large a stretch. the second isnt such a large stretch when you consider how they make such big deal out of the expansions being free. the answer is simple. customer feedback would be negative and of large volume. ccp wants feedback from customers. theyve publicly stated it any number of times. were customers and this is our feedback.seems youre the one making assumptions and fairly careless ones at that.-windjammer"
"signed"
"we (csm5) argued against this facebook only voting system but in the end this is a marketing driven decision and ccp have a hard on for facebook right now."
"more info is needed on this subject before there's any reason to oppose this decision.the main piece of info i need is whether or not they use a facebook app for voting that accesses your data. i specifically avoid any apps on facebook that does this for obvious reasons, and if it was like this, then i would understand completely.otherwise, if it's just using facebook to join a group or click \"like\" on some subject, then it's not that big of a deal imo..."
"good to know. thank you for the information.best regards,windjammer"
"trying to get advertisement for free on the expanse of the eve community? baaaad idea."
"my condolences then, i have dealt with marketing departments before and have found they can be very frustrating to deal with, so focussed on new gimicks and yet blind to current customers.if they think forcing eve players to sign up to other companies software is a good idea to drum up attention, they should just go all the way and require eve players to sign up for wow trial accounts in order to vote for eve content, then maybe 10 million new people will get introduced to eve, might sound good to the marketing dept on paper but sounds rediculous to many of us.no i wouldn't roll a fake blood elf in order to vote then not touch it ever again, and not a fake facebook entitiy either."
"i have no interest in interacting with facebook for any particular thing. the voting should be through the eve online website, or even better, the game client."
"well, it's not 'us' who need the credibility, but the voting system. and right now, i say facebook has none. in that light i say the topic of facebook's trustworthiness is more than relevant.as has been said before, ccp should of course have used eve gate, or another in-game voting mechanism. if for nothing else, because it would have allowed only eve subscribers to vote. but, as the guy from csm divulged, choosing facebook was a commercially motivated decision; and greed has a tendency to take the place of common sense."
"as with my original post on this thread, even before a csm came on and told u i was correct about this, its a marketing strategy to increase eve onlines visibility to non eve-players. and yet again windjammer your remarks fall short of the obvious point of this strategy so give it a rest.in actual fact it was you who started the whole assumption fiasco when u wrongly accused me of being a ccp staff member, waaaay wrong m8! unlucky! plus talking as if you're feeling wronged in some way because u need to sign up to a random free website to take part in a vote on artwork that wont see the light of day in eve for a hell of a long time, if not ever!ive voted and made a fake facebook profile and you want to know why? not because i particularly want to see any of those ships in eve, and not so i can have a small temper tantrum when it doesnt happen, then threaten ccp with cancelling my million or so subscriptions. but because i appreciate the time taken by all of those guys and girls who spent cumulative hours that im sure turned to days creating their own 3d masterpieces. i personally feel that spending 15 minutes or less making a fake facebook profile, liking eve's facebook group and voting for 3 ship designs i like best shows respect and credit where credits due on good honest hard and skillfull work, regardless of ccp's inability to respect their player base.to me this is about appreciating the content creators in this contest not using it as a massive workhorse to say f**k you ccp.bt thats just me!"
"unequivocally yes."
"yup, you did say it first. :) no contest.it's not the amount of minutes it takes to create a facebook account, but what that account stands for, and the people behind it.respect, you say? funny thing about that: respect is a two-way street; if ccp wanted us to show our appreciation for the makers of those models, than they should have respected their userbase enough to use a reputable voting system (like their own). not the fault of the ship designers, of course. at the same time i'm not gonna jeopardize my own online security by creating a facebook account, just so i can show appreciation elsewhere.someone at ccp was drooling over the facebook hype, and, at that point, became totally unreasonable, seeing only the dollar signs in his own eyes, and becoming purposely deaf to the more than reasonable objections people might have against facebook, and why an in-game voting system would have been much better. that's also not the fault of the ship designers. but it ain't mine either."
"kaboom!"
"signed"
"thank you for posting this, and i welcome the csm's position on this issue.i have no issue with ccp advertising on facebook, or anywhere else for that matter. i do have an issue with them making eve related content only available via third party websites. if ccp wanted to advertise eve and/or this competition on facebook then thats fine, but the voting should have happened only on ccp's own websites and the facebook adds should simply have directed people here. if ccp's decision was purely a marketing and pr one, which they have every intention of repeating i would hope we can make it clear that this is unacceptable, and that a petition like this will appear every time they outsource eve content. i would hope that the csm would bring this issue back up with ccp with the added ammunition of having a large and p****d off player base behind them.edit: for grammar"
"signed."
"i dunno if this has been mentioned before, but why not just add a voting feature to evegate since it is eves in-house social network? i will go back to scratching my manly chin now ty."
"1.0"
"yes, anything to reduce clicking!this would be nice for 0.0, sometimes it takes you longer to fit a ship than to lose it."
"+1 needs more adventure, random events, stuff like that."
"as long as it's not the text you mentioned, i would like to see it. rather, i would like to have a voice-over by the voice that does \"warp drive active\" and such. interacting with the ship ai ftw."
"need moar loar"
"suport this"
"can it be \"try to not be as much a spaz as you were yesterday. you know what i mean.\" by default?"
"being a broker, nohowever building an area + upkeep in money to provide manufacturing and such is okay because that would require work."
"removing isk sinks would cause hyperinflation and destroy eve economy. other mmos in the past have fallen into barter economy where money is worthless and one type of goods must be exchanged for another in trades due to this effect. interactivity is fine, but it cannot remove isk sinks in the process."
"too much inflation is bad. at the moment it looks like the average wallet is increasing by 30% per year (qen 3/2010, page 17, fig 4).why don't you think of something else then? stuff with fun.. not this bureaucratic ****.for example.. gambling, protected by concord. in that case a sink.. the house (concord) always gets a cut and thus isk leaves the economy."
"i think this is a great idea. it give traders some value over and above everything just trading. may introduce other entry professions, and give value to in station discourse."
"so, we have super pretyy moving avatars the size of an infant's thumbnail??sure add more useless crap to the game."
"always supporting new / improved features"
"o/ wack hey!and bump"
"supported.i'd personally like to see gallente ships with the active rep bonuses (ex. brutix, myrmidon, hyperion) get that bonus changed to an armor buff (ex. 5% armor per level). in this way, gallente ships don't need to fit plates (keeping them \"light-ish\") and can field sufficiently meaty tanks despite having less low-slots.the downside with this is that people would create some wicked \"brick\" tanks using the [new] bonuses and plates (ex. with the myrmidon i can get ~100k ehp with two 1600 plates, 3 eanm iis, a dcii, and lg slaves... with even a 5% per level bonus this would push the ehp up to around 125k... way too meaty for a mere battlecruiser).honestly though... i would like to see the gallente be given an \"upgrade\" as a whole. the whole \"active tanking race\" bit and being mediocre to inefficient in a fair bit of pvp situations just isn't cutting it anymore."
"what are these \"armor repzors\" you mention, never heard of them. are they a new module? solo/small-gang pvp, which is the only place it is useful, is becoming increasingly rare so unless ccp sits down and re-examines the whole \"buffer vs active\" tank side of things i'd say discard any and all active rep bonuses.option one is not worth considering unless ccp does something to make active repair worthwhile compared to buffer.option two, goddess no. have you seen what the serpentis ships can do with their god-webs, no way in hell those things should ever be re-introduced in the mainstream.option three looks like the way things are now, the shield craze of 2010-201?. having 3/4 of the races as shield tanks makes for a poorer game, so no.actually looks like a decent way of doing it. don't worry about the possibility of the 100k+ tank as it can always be tweaked through related attributes .. hasn't hurt the drake to have that kind of buffer my take:- increase speed of all blaster boats to matari levels but decrease inertia. gives you straight line speed to catch and manoeuvre under tackle while limiting kiting shenanigans (that is a minnie trademark).- replace all active bonuses with either raw ehp as mentioned in post above or gun/drone bonuses.never did fathom why the megathron is the only blaster platform with a tracking bonus.- give hybrids a make over similar to what was done for projectiles (just not as exaggerated please )."
"definitely supporting an improvement to gal ships, theyre practically dissapearing in pvp except for a few exceptions.i prefer the idea of bonuses to armor resist strengths rather than armor hp increase per level. as certain aspects of performance should change with an increase in armor amount... the same way you put a plate on u decrease speed and increase mass and therefore inertia.i do also believe that some gal ships do desperately require pg increases!*edited to support*"
"some pretty reasoned thinking there - would probably support option one."
"supported."
"true, only role of dreads atm is docking anyway scs are overpowered, now you can boost all other ships to compensate, or you can nerf one ship class: the scs. that really sounds like a better solution.btw normally i would have supported this, but there is already an imo better one a bit down."
"supported, i'd like the chance to blast charisma skills for a few months without shafting my skill plan like many other people have the opportunity now to do so."
"i'll further simplify the equation to hopefully make it abundantly clear.hit chance = ((1/2)^(((transv/(range*tracking))*(sig_res/sig_rad))^2) +((max(0,range-optimal))/falloff)^2))now the piece of this equation in question is this-((transv/(range*tracking))*(sig_res/sig_rad))now multiply the two halves of this and get-(transv*sig_res)/(range*tracking*sig_rad)now let us.... for example...we wanted to reduce the signature resolution (sig_res) by 10%, we would represent that in this manner-(transv*sig_res*(9/10))/(range*tracking*sig_rad)the fraction 9/10 is commonly known as 90%, or 10% less. this can mathimatically be shifted to the denominator simply by inverting it-(transv*sig_res)/(range*tracking*(10/9)*sig_rad)as you can see, this means a 10% reduction (9/10) to signature resolution has >>exactly<< the same affect as an inverse increase (10/9, or 11.1111111111%) in tracking.so you can see, there is absolutely no difference whatsoever between decreasing signature resolutions and inversely increasing tracking... making modifying both of them pointless, misleading, and generally fail. and yes, it works the same with all mods bonuses and anything and everything else."
"railguns are good at sniping.like me."
"aaargh. yes, it will. signature resolution is simply another modifier to tracking - just like tracking mods/ship bonuses/hardwirings. there is no difference between a turret of sig res 400 m and tracking 0.004 and one of sig res 100 m and tracking 0.001."
"adestria and vindicator are the only gallente ships with real gallente bonus and where hybrids work fine (in paper)now some people talk about drones, well drones everybody can use them so this is not an argument. if all gallente ships had +10% (or 5%) hp and dmg per level, then drone argument could be reasonable, but it's not.hybrids get me ..."
"railguns are also terrible at posting (killmails) , like you."
"im not really sure what part of me proving them to be exactly the same you failed to understand. as in.. exactly... in every way... you know.... as in having the same effect... in every way.... do you really not grasp the concept of exactly the same? (you know completely the same thing)do you understand math at all? i showed you how a change to one is exactly the same as an inverse change to the other, any change, that kind of includes all bonuses, hardwiring, and tracking mods.lets go back to the simplified tracking/sig part of the hit equation...(transv*sig_res)/(range*tracking*sig_rad)now i really didnt think it needed to be simplified any further, but lets remove all the variables we're not even talking about simply to see the relation between signature resolution and tracking.(sig_res)/(tracking)looks suspiciously like they have an inverse relationship doesn't it? now lets pretend your bonuses, hardwirings, and tracking mods happen to increase your tracking by... 50%, nice.(sig_res)/(tracking*1.5)now what happens if sig_res is reduced by 50% too. this is also commonly known as dividing by 2, so we put a 2 on the bottom of the equation.(sig_res)/(tracking*1.5*2)whoa..... did you see that?!?! that division by 2 multiplies with any tracking modifiers (in this case the +50% tracking). in case you missed it...(sig_res)/(tracking*1.5*2)wow, they multiply.... that means changes to sig res and trackign stack perfectly in every way........ wow."
"u mad bro?"
"there are even software token generators. i believe i saw a friend running one on his smartphone to get a starcraft 2 code. just link it to your account then require it as you're signing on. tie it to 3 computers max requiring email authentication for each one and you're golden. they would have to compromise your email address, your account and then get the software token generator. although this would probably take a little deployment time and a little bit of expense it would probably be worth it."
"how about you just mark ecm as passive modules sure they stop you from targeting someone but other than that they are completely harmless. so make concord ignore jamming and only kill for damage and warp scrambling and other overtly offensive tactics. i for one would like to be able to use this whenever to wave off the curious guy with a ship or cargo scanner, so i dont support the complete removal concord protection but i do belive ecm and target jammers are harmless enough not to trigger concord and sec loss.however unprovoked ecm will trigger corperate level killrights for the person you jammed. otherwise the gankers would just sit in belts messing up the miners instead of killing them totally killing productivity."
"remove concord protection for stupid people hauling billions in noobships.seriously. space is large it doesn't make sense concord appearing in a second to everywhere and not being able to escape.remove hi sec.it is needless waste of space. it only gives people false belief that they should be safe wherever they fly and discourages social roleplay!"
"+1 opgankers have the smallest consequences ig for their choices. \"high-sec\" therm is laughable.force people, yes you're right this is the best way.and has i don't like your ideas so i'd say that concord should insta shoot you under 0.5 ss, gankers insta "
"the \"fix\" to suicide ganking is very simple:- make kill-rights commodities.- enforce the no-recycle-to-avoid-repercussions rule.anything further is overkill and goes against the whole sandbox theme that is supposed to be integral to eve. might consider a penalty to security status gain based on whether a kill-right is active, removes the gank-by-day/rat-by-night people from the equation.the only way i have ever managed to make more isk than 0.0 was when i dabbled in marketeering .. gave that up when it became apparent that it is filled with 0.01isk macros .. please stop with the \"omg golden high-sec goose\", getting old.you neglect to consider that a vast majority of the high population are casual player, non-sociopaths or alts. forcing people to live in drama-llama land is more likely to make them drop their subscriptions than put up with the current state of affairs in null.looks good on paper but humanity, sheepish as it is, very seldomly engages in activities that goes against its nature/wishes .. except when no other option is available, which in this case would cost ccp money."
"this again.to stop the lion eating you, you do not need to be faster than the lion. you just need to be faster than your slowest friend.the moment you become the fattest, slowest friend, you're dead.i typically forget to insure 2 out of 10 of my suicide ganking vessels, but never once regretted pulling the trigger.once they remove insurance and that still doesn't stop the ganks, what are you going to ask for? fines?because frankly, ask for that now, because that's what's next and we'd like our entertaining threads to stop being so samey."
"insurance should refuse to pay for ship losses to concord. this is way more realistic than the current system."
"sorry i don't support this, it isn't even close to game breaking, in fact you'd prolly find that ccp is kinda grateful for them, forcing missionrunners to spread out a bit rather than every missionrunner in the game piling into just a few systems. motsu, dodixi, etc are overcrowded already, imagine how bad it'd be if everyone who's left due to the gankers suddenly came back."
"at present, a storyline mission is offered for every 16 regular missions that a player completes of the same faction and level. each faction-level combination has a separate counter tracking the number of regular missions completed, and these counters hide in the game engine server-side.proposal: have the neocom journal include a subtab with a list of counters tracking how many regular missions have been completed for each faction and level since the last storyline mission offer. the display would be a simple two-column table:amarr empire - level 1: 6amarr empire - level 2: 2amarr empire - level 3: 4amarr empire - level 4: 13amarr empire - level 5: 0ammatar mandate - level 1: 9ammatar mandate - level 2: 1ammatar mandate - level 3: 0ammatar mandate - level 4: 2ammatar mandate - level 5: 0blood raiders - level 1: 8...and so on."
"then i could delete the note that is in my neocom notes that i do this with."
"after some research, i shamefully found that i was in err about how storyline missions work (which is bad considering i run missions all the time). in retrospect, supported."
"you can't do that now. separate tab."
"supportedsimply because it will not break anything. what i would like to see is that the level of storyline mission you receive is based on the level of mission you do most, so if you do 15 l1's and 1 l4 well poop for you, you will get a l1 storyline. if its a tie well, give em the better mission. also i would like to see a storyline mission be given randomly like its between 10 or 20 missions. imo its way too easy to get storylines especially after you get the skills to just blast through missions. its too easy to get high faction standings"
"confirming that this is not how storylines work. you must do 16 lvl 4 missions to get a lvl 4 storyline. each mission level is completely independent from one another. supported."
"sounds like a good idea....i accidentally repackaged all the cans in my hangar once...it was a freakin mess. if i could just have 1 can with tabs, i would be able to see the \"new\" items easier without scrolling past all my cans first."
"wtb bpos for all cans except jet cans."
"heck, no to the op. if anything must be done, i would like the cost lowered significantly for increased warfare capability for smaller corps. as it is, i have to keep my main busy to feed my pew-pewing alts wallets. 50 million isk means just too much precious time spent in the sewer of missioning/ninja/salvaging, just to make isk to have fun. and even then, most of those gooey carebears just dock up for the duration. so that 50 million might just go to waste anyway. but it's probably safest to keep things the way they are. with no one completely happy, and no one completely miserable, you've probably got a good compromise."
"how about this:when you declare war dec, pay the cost, you get to shoot them but they can't shoot you until you aggro. kinda like can flipping mechanic.and if they want to shoot you, they also pay the war cost, or they declare war mutual and neither of you pay anything.that sounds a lot more fair in terms of costs."
"if you meant the current 2 mil fee to dec a corp should be increased to 50 mil, then i agree."
"on the issue of relevance, high-sec wardec's have none. i agree completely that they cost way too little money. this is not to say that i want the price of wardec's to increase to such a degree that they become completely infeasible, but 2 million to wardec a corporation is kind of ridiculous. the reason that it is ridiculous though is because there is very minimal risk involved.take a large 0.0 campaign for example. even though there is no mechanic in place to facilitate the campaign, weeks and sometimes months are spent in the planning and execution of them. alliances and coalitions plan out cost effectiveness vs. risk involved. for the high-sec wardecing corporation, the cost of initiating, what we can laughably call a war, should represent a modicum of intent to begin some sort of meaningful campaign, instead of \"i just want to shoot things now\".plain and simple, if you raise the cost it takes to wardec an entity, the wardeccer will think harder about doing so. they will have to research their opponent (not to say they don't now) and determine whether or not there is some relevance behind what they are about to do.yet again i must stress, i don't want to see pvp come to a grinding halt in empire, i just think that people should have to think more critically about declaring \"war\"."
"500 mil is fine with me: if you want to go to war, it should cost you, and not just be a gratuitous griefing tool.+1"
"wardec price is too high.my corp only has like 3 million how we are going to kill people insulting now! this is not fair. i demand lower wardec prices.seriously. i don't want to buy isk from chinese just to wardec some griefers."
"lol, you can buy your isk from ccp too, legally ;)besides highsec should not be wannabe-pvp-elitists heaven either. im all for raising minimum wardeck fee to 50 mil/week + random chance concord official to screw you and you get concorded anyways... :p"
"whilst i agree that it should be a bigger commitment from the organisation that is declaring war, the numerous cheap loopholes that make it trivial to avoid a wardec also need to be closed. if you're going to advocate that corp a has to spend 500 mill (or whatever) to dec corp b, then corp a are entitled to actually get a war for their isk.really, the whole wardec system needs to be reworked from scratch."
"declare a war on pvp corp and you will get it. dec a mining corp and you won't, either members leave or you get to pop a few barges, neither of which constitutes a war."
"and that there is the fundamental misunderstanding that people who dont leave rens, amarr, jita or dodixie have regarding wars and pvp. cost effectiveness? what?again, its about enjoyment. griefers enjoy the game a certain way, carebears enjoy it a different way. you, and the others supporting this hilarious proposal, are arrogant and conceited to think yours is any more \"right\" a way to play than the pirates or the griefers. i know its a tired old cliche, but if you cannot take the heat, if you cant cope with the fact that undocking is implicitely agreeing to lose your ship, then get the **** back to wow"
"in some way this affects just about everything:-nerf cloaks-nerf local-make high sec safer-make high sec less safe-stop the bots-bla bla blawe have problems in this game, that in most cases is connected to the system of security rating and safety:high sec: i think this was intended to be reasonably safe, but still possibly to gank a high value target. these days though, gankings happen \"for fun\", with no profits and little repercussions. the people that don't pvp here want it to be safer; the pirates want it to be less so. i can the points from both sides, but neither solution will make the majority happy. i'm not sure what functionality war decs were supposed to have, but it isn't much of a tool to eliminate competition. now, it's little more than a way to gank people legally, and many people don't even leave the newbie corps as a result. high sec is a mess.low sec: probably intended to be the area where pirates end up due to sec rating, and where industrialists go to increase their earnings, by risking exposure to the pirate population. unfortunately, while many pirates are here - there's at least as many in high sec, possibly due to a lack of \"easy targets\" in low sec. lack of easy targets is an obvious sign that the system in place doesn't do enough to encourage high sec people to venture into low sec. low sec should attract industrialists - but currently, it seems more like high sec attracts pirates. this can't be right.null sec: i guess this was intended as the unsafest area, but it's been redesigned over the years into the place where you build empires. as a result, you are now relatively safe here while you do pve and industrialist work, but the profit margin is still through the roof - and the amount of botting out here clearly indicates that something is wrong. in spite of the current safety, people are asking to have afk cloaking nerfed as it makes them too unsafe, and the other side want to remove local to make it less safe - and personally, i think the number of bots indicate that this is probably closer to the truth, though maybe the problem is the profitability of the area, not the safety? null sec can be is very inaccessible to people without connections, and only a very small section of our pirate population operate out here. null is a bit of a mess.the only thing that's crystal clear from looking at the forums, is that all areas have a large section of the population that's rather unhappy with how things are.i'd like to suggest that ccp/csm actually figure out what to do, once and for all. first step must be a survey, one that reaches as many players as possible, and tries to find out what we actually want. simply asking for opinions on the forum isn't really enough, as we all know the forums attract certain types, and never gives a proper representation of the player base.once ccp have a good grasp of what people actually want to get out of the game, they need to figure out what they want out of their game, and start working on merging the two, and hopefully come up with a system that functions better than the mess we currently have. i'm sure ccp can come up with something better than this.time to stop trying to \"fix\" the system, and just make a better system from scratch."
"hello alli shall start my tale on the eve of christmas it was a snowy snowy night in the dales of yorkshire when a man logged into his e-mail, their in the inbox was a mail from ccp entitled \"this character is being transfered to your account. if you are not expecting this transfer please let us know by clicking this link\" ok ok ok well i was a mug and i fell for it a few hours later my wallets were dry my bpo's were gone and i was left to write a petition, gm's did what they could i got some back but not all.so i have been sat for a while now thinking how the incresing problem of hacking and rmt can be tackled and i hate to say it but a solution may already be in place for world of warcraft(i will wash my keyboard later).see i was chatting to my mate he plays wow and i told him what happened to me he simply showed me his authenticator and explained it to me seems like a good idea to me can a similar system be put into place for eveif you dont know what it is just google blizzard authenticator"
"this idea has been proposed on numerous threads. please support one of those, such as this one or any of the other ones. while i do agree with you, the multiple threads just limits the impact of a proposal to ccp."
"clicking on links in emails were a bad idea five years go, not sure why you suddenly thought it wise never, ever click anything you did not specifically ask for, simple enough rule that keeps you safe from 99.9% of all the evils of the interwebzor.having an authenticator is a good idea for the easily distracted, but for goddess sake don't make it mandatory"
"the reason most people get alts is not to train them seperatly it is so they can dual box a miner and a hauler. missioner salvager. tackler/ ganker. allowing alts to train seperatly would not deprive ccp of their 2x subscription because although they are training they cant log in at the same time"
"i never understood the point of making more than 1 character on 1 account for this very purpose. right now, all i have is 1 alt that sits in jita to check the prices for me. honestly, i do think we should be able to do this.and of course no other mmo's allow you to play on 2 characters at the same time on the same account, but this is eve and the ways to \"level up\" your character are very different. you can get on a different character on other mmo's and train them up, but in eve it's just a waiting game. it's not really a valid comparison between them..."
"this.the training system on eve is unique to eve. comparing other systems to eve is unreasonable as it is so wilding different from your garden variety games. players don't work for their skills completing mindless actions for sp to go up a silly level. ccp could also make bank with this as a lot of people will sell plexes and gtc to get isk to pay for training all their alts. since one character can only be used at any given time on a single account, the abuse factor in normal gameplay is limited (though still existent). this could tho lead to the farming of characters but since you still have to pay considerable isk (since you have 3 toons to skill up) to turn a significant enough profit to do so, it is limited. remember bots can only use one toon per account too so, they will be largely unaffectedwhen properly thought about the elements really balance themselves out.in eve you have to pay for your skills, so i say if you have the isk, then why not. sure there will be a lot more highly trained toons, but that just means more isk is gonna get thrown at those skills and so everyone has less. on the sheer basis of it becoming a huge isk sink i uber support this as isk is way too readily available as is"
"not supported. you want more toons training at a time, you gotta pay for it on separate accounts. there's nothing stopping you from training two characters on separate accounts, and combining them when one is \"finished,\" or training a second once you've gotten one where you want it. there's not a lot of reason to have one toon learn to do everything in game anyways; just makes for a more expensive clone when you get podded, and if you ever want to do something new, a focused toon sells better in the bazaar."
"as soon as eve let's me train faster by logging in, you might have a point."
"supported."
"my point.you missed it."
"your point.is meaningless since there is an mmo that does that."
"personally, without comparing eve to other mmos, i am in favor of a limited version of this. if we had the choice to pay for one month for a month of skill training on one character, or pay for two months to train all 3, it would save both overhead at ccp and give them more income (since you can't play more than one character at once on the same account anyways).if they implemented this idea, i could see a win/win situation. admittedly, character trainers could abuse this, but that would be fairly limited given the number of accounts that are outright selling obselete characters (in a personal sense, anyways).tentatively supported."
"if you want to train 3 characters at 1/3rd the speed, sure. if you want to be able to add int the que skills for different characters, i would accept this.if you whant to train three times as many charactes at the same speed while paying for one, as much as i would like thi, i think ccp would not."
"i know that this will just get a chorus of \"you're trying to dumb down eve\", but just try to read through my logic and see if it makes sense.i would like to see medical clone costs (what you pay to get a new clone after you are podded, or your sp gets high enough for the next level), be completely removed.right now, only a complete idiot or a new player forgets to update their medical clone upon crossing the sp threshold or getting podded. however, the costs of these clones do provide yet another isk cost to pvp, and the more isk cost to pvp, the less likely some people will be to participate. no matter how hardcore eve is, a lot of players are very risk adverse.currently, if a bunch of 2-3 year old mission runners decided they wanted to take the plunge and try pvp, they could jump into rifters and head for combat. however, even with jump clones, they aren't just facing a 1m loss for a cheap rifter, but also an additional and much higher charge for their new medical clones if they get podded. for a lot of characters, the cost isn't much, but every extra bit is a further disincentive for pvp.additionally, its a very flawed game mechanic. the only people who ever lose sp are those that are forgetful, or new players unfamiliar with the concept. punishing the forgetful is funny at times, but not conductive to maintaining subscription numbers, as some of these people probably quit in frustration after losing some sp. new players are the ones we want to stick with eve, and any mechanic that may cause them to become frustrated and quit for no discernible benefit in gameplay is flawed.cons:it would remove an isk sink, but i imagine it is an incredibly small isk-sink when viewed across the entire eve economy."
"are you that dense?what's next... free insurance? free ships?seriously... where do you get off making such outlandish ideas over something you obviously do not understand?at least the people who complain about high cost/high sp clones have a rational argument.yours is just utterly off the wall.and to top that off your in eve uni member.i would have thought the first thing they taught you was you don't fly what you cant afford to lose.it's more to it than that... eve is about risk vs cost.every time you go pvp your taking a risk... to offer free clones removes the risk and makes the whole affair more like wow and less eve.you want wow that bad? quit... and go play wow."
"i don't think i would mind making clones free, but you should still have to update them!that's the consequence of death; if you forgot, you lose sp. that established mechanic i see no reason to take out. you are right about the old players; it's simply too costly to go have fun =p at no point in the game should you have to make another character so that it's not as expensive to pvp...invest some sp in reading, dumbass, he's talking about clone cost for those people that have lots of sp not ships! every time someone over 70 million sp gets podded, it costs 15+ million to get a new clone. getting podded can happen when you go through the wrong gate...having clone costs so high makes pvp a very undesirable experience, even when using jump clones. i don't think high sp characters, like reformed carebears, should be punished because they've played the game so long."
"supported"
"the options provided and the costs associated punish a player the longer they are with the game.if the player stays past the 70sp barrier then they are punished harder again.this has no bearing on what ships they're flying or how they use their character.it is not flexible and grossly inflates the costs at an every increasing rate.this makes fun not."
"old players shouldn't be penalised for flying cheap tackle in 0.0."
"counter-proposal: double clone costssince the average isk/hour income has gone up considerably over the years, the costs of clones became too cheap and almost entirely insignificant. furthermore, since the costs of standard +3 implants has gone down almost 75%, the loss of pod has become just a minor nuisance. clone costs have to be increased to adjust for all the other cost reducing factors. people have to fear getting podded."
"not supported.not even sure why this was suggested in the first place."
"can you add undocking animations in this proposal too? for stations it could play a client side animation of a few small drones tractor beaming your ship out of or into the station depending on if you are docking/undocking. this would also make a more visible session change timer (you can visually see your ship still being towed into the station, while getting the ship is still being towed into station message) instead of having to spam the change ship button, and guess when the timer reaches zero (like your currently have to). undocking would have your ship being towed down the hallway at the same speed as the bar currently goes (it would be smoothed, so your ship doesn't jump foreward all of a sudden). this would also be better because the game would have already loaded most of the meshes and textures it will need so you won't have a terrible graphic lag upon undocking."
"tired of sitting at the sidelines during the great rmt/botting revolt of 2011? read this quick guide to get your feet wet.back on planet earth circa 2003, a new online game called eve started up. one of the best professions was mining because minerals were in extremely short supply. you either had to buy the expensive minerals or mine your own to make your ships. eventually, people started mining and some really lazy folks started botting.fast-forward 7 years and the people are ****ed. the massive influx of minerals have made the mining profession a joke for pretty much anyone and the massive stocks of minerals sit on markets for quite a while. rmt has made the ingame legal choice of gtcs become more and more expensive because people buy isk and use that to buy plexes driving up the costs (law of supply and law of demand).some bots even went as far as ratting making the officer mods more common and could threaten to bring the prices down. eventually, entire forum posts and events were created to eliminate or curb the amount of bots. ccp in all their mighty goodness said they were \"working on it\" and it the end to bots would be \"coming soon\" as players waited and waited.and then my auntie got scared and sent me all the way to bel-air."
"confirming that i have purchased sufficient minerals to build multiple titans, in jita, in the space of a few minutes.in the absence of any official statistics on the incidence of plex purchased using (subsequently confiscated) rmt-bought isk, i think we should tread carefully before speculating on what people do with it. it would be interesting to see what rmt-ers tend to buy, though, and i would welcome the publication of some statistics on this matter. at least they got rid of quite a large chunk of the bots that were consuming the most server resources a while back (the ones running missions)."
"yeah, project unholy rage was nice, but i think it's time for ccp to take the next step, and adjust their focus from rmt to all macro activities. some regions are even renown as macro havens, or at least accused with some facts to back it up (stain, et al). it has been confirmed by some macroers (such as the ones discussed on the recent threadnought) that isk goes in part to buy etcs so the rl investment is minimized.tl;dr: good job with project unholy rage. now it's time to step it up."
"that's not how the song goes >:("
"i remember seeing in project rage, that the banning of the bots caused a severe reduction in cpu use/player. needless to say, it all indicates that a bot-controlled player eats up far more cpu than real players, like 100% more at least. i'm wondering if this couldn't be exploited as a first step in tracking down suspected bots. at least until the bots are updated, that is..."
"you guys just got bel aired and didnt even notice it"
"then its a non-issue as you can and do live in a area with no local.\"problem\" solved."
"unlike any, i am not making a proposal selfishly, because something is an annoyance to me. as you ha noted, i couldn't care less. bu i thought that such a great community deserve me throwing an idea with some potential out there."
"i agree, if concord cant help you - they should not put you in local.(all low secs should work like wh).people can gauge your 'talent/skills' by your toon in local's employment history/age. whenever anyone travels in local - you talk to your fleet / corp - not people on the local channel. low sec is not a 'chat' program like high sec is.as if i would want to go to war and the first thing i would do is tell everyone im less than a year old toon. 100% supported - low sec local to work like wh."
"why not set up like in w-space for null space? if you do not chat in local you do not appear in local, but local is still there so if someone wants they can talk smack to the losers like it sometimes happens and you wont have to start a private conversation to do so. or be used in some odd strat for pvping."
"ok, reworking proposal. give us an option to chose local,. just add a cross. if you close it, you don't apprea in local, but you cannot see who is there. you get the option."
"not supported.also, being able to opt out of local is a terrible idea."
"each ecm firing is independant of all others.having one ecm on a ship has no effect on whether a second ecm on the same ship will work or not.i.e. ecm's do not stack.how do you propose to stacking penalize a mod which does not stack ?."
"dear goddess no. i still have nightmares from the old days when your targeting and gun range could be damped/td'ed infinitely.server obviously has the information since it sends the attempted jam to target client .. so shouldn't be a problem.ecm core mechanic has to change. everything else is just spraying deodorant on a decomposing turd in a vain attempt to make it less offensive.no support for band-aid measures."
"you either jam a target or you dont.your ecm has no effect on the target ship if it does not work.so a second activation would stack on what attribute ?ship jammed from first jammer second jam activates but its irrelevant if penalised or not because the ship is allready jammed and cannot be jammed further.ship not jammed on first jammer. second jammer activates and is penalised on whether or not the target is allready jammed. target is not allready jammed by anything so jammer is not penalised."
"^this"
"good idea"
"i've done my fair share of invention and i've owned over 200 t2 bpo's(all purchased from other players), i'd say i'm a well aware of the difference between the two. each has it's pro's and con's and is quite balanced as is. (not perfect, but not that far either.)that convenience with t2 bpo's over invention comes with a very large price tag. so while it might be convenient time and click wise it certainly isn't convenient on your wallet, due to the huge prices of the bpo's. so it's a trade off of work and time. spend time and clicks to be able to afford the convenience of a t2 bpo, or spend the time and clicks to be able to avoid the huge overhead of owning one.just to clear some things up, i currently own zero t2 bpo's. i also do not plan on ever going back either. i've moved on to better investments.while t2 bpo's can be vanity items, they are also investments, so their price isn't solely derived from their rarity. their price is determined by profits, production overhead, ease of sales, logistics in movement, and slightly affected by their rarity/cool factor.i'm fortunate enough to have played since the start of eve, and it has given me a lot of time to personally try just about everything there is to try in eve. so i'm very well aware of how the game works.i do consider myself well off, but the majority of my isk didn't not come from t2 bpo's. i'd say about 70-80% of it came from other ventures/investments. while my 3rd party service can be quite profitable, it doesn't even come close to my other income earning activities. as boring as it sounds it actually comes from large scale investments and trade.hope that clears things up for you."
"aphrodite (3rd post) you are right - im mining ice and its brutal.m."
"this would make me look at the graphics more."
"totes could use pos spin too"
"worth the subscription tbh."
"supported.+1"
"back in my day, we had to spin the ships ourselves. stop making eve easier.+1 support btw."
"in basic terms:t2 titan.doomsday activation creates 10 minute grid-wide interdictor bubble, meaning nothing on grid (can be hardcoded 250km radius) can warp.capitals can still jump.price something like twice or three times a titan."
"can you list your projected tactical and strategic implications of such a device?i suppose it also prevents an on-grid warp (150+ km from your location on top of enemy)but people from off grid can still warp on top of your selected targets - a bit unfairat first glance i fail to see what good can come of this. seems like the main purpose is to ensure a complete turkey shoot - destroy weaker force completely allowing no escapes.and the fact that caps can still jump out makes sure caps aren't committed to the fight, can always bail when the turkey shoot is over."
"doesn't work. mostly because you can pop up cyno everywhere except hi sec without dedicated ship and without warning. go figure. it would also make bringing sub caps even near capitals pretty difficult, since as it is now essential part of game mechanics is to warp out when you're damaged and then warp back."
"some merit yes but rails and blasters are a bit too different to do that especially in fitting stats if you would take the fitting requirements of rails the boats using the short ammo only would get gimped in tank too much using that of blasters would give sniping ships too much tank(imho i think that long and short range weapons should all have about the same requirements but as that is never gonna change )also how would that be done skill vise? would you only have to skill one specialization skill? and thus take longer or shorter to skill for t2 than the other weapons?also having a jack of all trades weapon is kinda overpowered by itself and nerfing that would result in a weapon that can't compete again"
"no need to mess with skills, just apply blaster skills when blaster ammo is loaded, and rail skills when rail ammo is loaded. done.sniper boats aren't short on tank for lack of grid / cpu, but because they're sniper boats and their slots are filled with damage / tracking mods. so new blasters have blaster fitting reqs. done. \"jack of all trades\" gun has unique niche of vast range flexibility, but still the fail of hybrids now: needing cap to fire, being either super short range with sub-par tracking, or kinda long range with wimpy dps / alpha and sub-par tracking. so jack of all trades, master of none. sounds fair. done."
"hell i'm starting to think there is one weapon system to many in game lolz. just delet hybirds and give gal projectiles and caldire lazers. let them remburst the sp in hybird weapons."
"i agree that there are too many weapon systems to balance fairly. there are just too many factors that result in imbalances. how much weight do you attribute to cap usage and damage type selection? i'd ditch the projectile weapon system and rebalance the blasters and rails. machine guns in space seem a little silly to me."
"smart man. +1 internet for you, sir."
"also, improve the friggin' missile meta drop rates. they're absolutely terrible--just compare them to guns for ships of equivalent size and you'll notice the missile launchers cost up to twenty times more."
"probably because they are used 20 times more."
"i support this."
"i support the motion, these ships need some adjustments"
"if i listen carefully, even now i hear my acolyte crying in my station, just wanting to fly with all the other drones.please, think of the acolytes."
"imho caldari and amarr drones have no use they exceed at nothing and i never use them so they should get their own niche"
"give amarr drones the most ehp or something."
"*ponders*i don't know the nature of this problem all that well, but this is supported since your logic is sound."
"i'm not a doctor either."
"up"
"*pummle*"
"but why do you always run away in your dual warp core stabbed rifter when i try kill you cearain?"
"that must have been in a mission not a plex. i do missions in pve ships and i will run. when i am in a plex i am usually in a ship named something like \"fw plexxer\" so even the very dumb should be able to find me if they want a fight. the only reason i open plexes is to try to speed up the process of getting in a decent pvp fight. in a plex i usually just turn away from the rats so they don't aggro me or the enemy. what do you think of the proposal?"
"this...supported."
"i'd love a normal name d:"
"i quite like my name. but if i could have a real name as well as a callsign? yeah, that's be cool."
"i'll support this for what it's worth.i'm not a massive fan of having everyone i know suddenly change race/bloodline/gender but seeing how much they have changed for each bloodlines i understand the need for change.we took our current characters based on the looks we liked, now they have changed some bloodlines so drastically the looks we wanted just can't be achieved any more, so yeah we should be given the option to reassess our new looks."
"complete bull****. the only indication choosing the min/max approach is of is that aesthetics were slightly under the min/max approach in importance. remember, you could only choose one - it was either min/max, or aesthetics. some people get lucky and get one that coincides with both. that's just luck and has nothing to do with actual decision-making on the player's part (as the given statistics are completely arbitrary in the first place). i personally chose based on stats because there was no racial appearance preview. i wasn't even aware that there were differences in appearance between the races. only now, with the new creator, do we actually see the different looks before we can commit (not to mention, again, there are no longer any stats). your fatalistic \"clearly you chose one because it was far above the other\" ideal is more indicative of personal issues than anything to do with anyone else's decision-making."
"this is not a joke...this is very serious stuff.i propose that some attention be brought to boobies in incarna. marble boobies are no fun. they also detract from the ambiance of the game. seeing a female character walking while her boobs do not move in a realistic fashion makes me wonder if they are meant to cut diamonds or serve dinner. i am not asking for dead or alive style boob movement here. i am asking for some semblance of realism to them. some movement is better than no movement at all.the video's that ccp has presented showing off what the carbon system can do proves that this is possible. i am not asking that it be immediately appearent with incursion. i could care less if the boobs don't move on a character i cannot see the body of but it would be nice to see this put into incarna. it is the little things that make or break the ambiance in a game such as eve...(i know there is a joke in there...not gonna use it).so what do you say ccp? you got the hair down...the eyes look real as do the clothes and your character models are by far best in the industry...take it a step further and make gravity do it's thing! god i hope i don't get banned for this."
"would be nice, but there are about 50 other improvements changes and fix's needed before this needs looked into.but hey, if it can be done in a day why not?"
"i have it on good authority that no less than hilmar himself has explicitly forbidden research into breast dynamics, on the grounds that it might destroy the company. when you consider the possible negative effects of permitting breasts to wobble, even slightly, i am sure you will agree it could be catastrophic.just a few examples:* game design would spend months working on a set of 4th-order differential equations that properly model nipple-trajectories, instead of fixing sov.* art would be consumed in an orgy of bra-design.* legal would worry about lawsuits from victoria's secret.* qa would spend months, possibly years, ensuring that faction undergarments have the proper \"stacking\" effects.* and finally, when the server-side costs of properly modeling the effects of gravity become clear, team gridlock would stop fighting the \"war on lag\" in favor of the more important \"war on droop\".bottom line, it's a bad idea."
"i also don't think that that is a useful usage of dev time."
"do new clones have perfectly rounded breasts - not sagged by a lifetime of jogging?these things keep me awake at night."
"some sacrifices just have to be made for the greater good."
"how can we have a \"total-sci-fi-game-immersion-experience\" without wobbly norks?"
"joke? or seriousness.honestly, if it does require a set of fourth order differential equations (which i find a bit... strange... for this case for them to be that high of an order), then similar equations have probably been solved already since many games already employ this mechanic.as for the rest of this.... really??"
"i'm not joking either here. boob jiggling has been in lesser and crappier games and it indeed does make a big difference in how good a character looks. usually you see the affect well in games where you have to use mods to get some realistic jiggling effects added. their movement doesn't have to be absolutely realistic or complex. they just need to have some movement to them instead of being solid lumps of steel. naturally the more realistic and better you can make the better."
"aye, do it right..."
"i have to support this for realism's sake. boobs are not made out of steel and plaster, people! for that matter, neither are bras going to keep them still as stone through all physical activity (unless, like, it's really, uncomfortably tight)."
"i ask for this for the sake of quality and realism, not so we can get off to moving boobs in a video game. frankly if i want that i can look at ****. it is simply for the sake of immersion. as stated before there are lesser games out there that do this. one good example is a yet to be released game called tera online. one video i watched was showcasing how they actually got breasts to move. the character would even bend over and they would hang and not be set in stone. was it perfect? no...but it was done fairly well and is something that would be noticible in eve. here is a link to one of the video's as an example. tera online high elf emotes again...this would not have anywhere near as realistic of a feel if they were stationary.ccp has stated many times that they want this game to be a space simulator. a simulator implies realism which is what i believe they are striving for especially with the new character creator and incarna later this year. last time i checked...boobs still move in space and i am sure they would move on a station with gravity. that said i think it is a reasonable request to have boobs move in the game as realistically as possible.again i want to point out that i don't think this should bring any kind of perversion to the game in any way shape or form. if you are afraid to see boobs move then don't go out into the world at all. im not asking for nudity or futa (the other thread)...i am asking for realistic movement and nothing more. that is not perversion."
"victoria's secret could launch an eve online selection instead. also, the poor art boys draw boobies anyways.war on droop!!!!!~"
"i fully endorse and or support this product."
"can we get the barbie-boob jigglers their own server with only a single station so they can stop interfering with a spaceship game?"
"when server lag falls behind real time, slow down real time to match it... so simple."
"i don't believe that a little bit of nudity or even futa in eve would cause it's downfall in the us. my biggest reasoning for this is that most of the game is comprised of adult players to begin with. also...it's primarily a download only game. i know you can get it in stores now but how many of us have done that? also...strip clubs can be made in game...upon entering said strip club a disclaimer for 18+ could appear if thats even necessary. i don't know what the big deal is. you pay for this game with a credit card for the most part. using said card is an admission that you are either of age or a supporting parent who is of age is paying for you.also...could have male strip clubs for the ladies..."
"for all the people saying that it makes no sense to repair yourself with your own remote repair drones because they are a remote ship module and thus are like the remote repair modules on your own ship which of course cannot repair your own ships.i hope you realize that you can repair your drones with your drones currently, and you can repair your drones with your remote repair modules; almost as if your drones were a separate vessel floating in space. who knew."
"good idea.+1/me thinks that some angel ships making disbalance in faction ships niche"
"someone said you were the first to point this out. posts 32, 48, 53 and 58 of this thread made comments before you regarding the marketing aspect of ccps scheme. i suspect the majority of others who have posted on this thread already knew it was a marketing scheme and felt it obvious enough not to warrant comment. i dont believe anyone on this thread has contested that point. people arent opposed to getting new subscribers for eve or to having ccp make more money. theyre opposed to the way ccp is doing it. the end does not justify the means.did you happen to catch the part where teadaze mentions the csms position on this? perhaps youve notice that 97 people have supported the ops proposal within the space of a week. id be hard pressed to recall such a massive thumbs up in such a short time for any other proposal.incorrect. in point of fact i suggested your post had the smell of a ccp staffer, not that you actually were a ccp staffer. your posts still do. we have only your word for it that youre not. however, i wont press the point with you. ccp staffer or groveling sycophant, it makes little difference. your position is what it is.first you call us narrow minded, then ignorant and now youre trying to guilt us into going to facebook because were hurting the artists involved? where is your anger at ccp for creating a situation the artists couldnt have anticipated? this was ccps doing, not ours. telling us we should join facebook, something many of us are vigorously opposed to, for the sake of the artists is an absurd and slightly desperate argument.you seem to have a sense of what ccps rights are. what about consumer rights? what about the rights of the artists who have been used in this fashion? no, not necessarily legal rights, but ethical ones and rights all the same. subscribers are not obligated to give up their rights in order to correct a wrong ccp has committed.as youve seen in this thread, there are many reasons people do not wish to use facebook. ccp has miscalculated this situation. they may indeed get some free advertising out of this, but theyre also gaining the anger of customers they already have.this is not a temper tantrum, as you put it. it is customer feedback. something most companies crave and ccp has specifically asked for.-windjammer"
"i am very dissapointed by ccp not allowing customers to vote on other sites than facebook."
"agreed.i have a facebook account but i think it's unfair asking those who don't have/want one to join up to vote for something they care about."
"due to my intense hate towards social networking, i'm going to have to give my support here. there will be no installing of software and or account activation through 3rd party's just to vote on an eve ship."
"full support, love the rails idea added by ptang"
"same applies for hydrogen batteries."
"supported pi needs a boost"
"bump"
"i like these ideas, anything that keeps a game modern and updated i agree with. but i feel they should fix the lag issues first, only because i fear all of these suggestions will add lag to the system. ship damage will increase the amount of textures you will have to load.missing hits, damage that trails down a ship hull, etc. will increase the amount of calculations during combat.shrinking asteroids, wrecks, exploding wreckage will increase the amount of models and textures you will have to load. and not just on our side but also the number of commits server side as well. look at how much lag was caused just from the spawning and despawning of missile models.i like all of the suggestions, i think that stuff would be really cool. but not at the expense of gameplay performance. perhaps later when the number crunching has gotten streamlined enough to handle the extra load without causing lag, but not now."
"100% supported. so many beautiful things in this game, but also so many things that are very obviously from 2001. still needs work!"
"these are all client side operations. eve's lag problems are server side. i don't think these changes are going to impact performance noticably unless you're running a gpu that's two or three years old. and if it does, well, that's why we have low graphics settings. some of us have gtx480s, you know alright, so i pulled that out of my arse. i can't honestly say i know how these changes will impact performance. but i do know the eve client is having my computer sitting around twiddling it's thumbs most of the time, especially the cpu.well, if you read the drake lag devblog, you'll see that the vast majority of the server load is caused by notifying clients when a missile is created/destroyed. wrecks are not created at anything like the rate of missiles and they stick around a hell of a lot longer. they're not collidable* (are they?), and they only move when you tractor them, so the only times the server needs to worry about them is; when they're created; when a client loads the grid; when someone interacts with them (tractor/loot/salvage). none of these are common occurrences. unless maybe you bring a dozen noctises. but that would be silly.*i suppose there's the implicit assumption, if we're making wrecks larger and giving them volume, that we'd be making them collidable as well. i suggest we don't do that whatever happens, because, well, i ran buzz kill and the blockade yesterday, and the thought of having to navigate between all those wrecks... agreed. but the only people equipped to accurately assess the performance impact of these changes is ccp, and they can'6t do that if the proposal never reaches them."
"large parts of the pi market is distorted by large numbers of players selling pi goods significantly below their real cost.in other markets this situation is automatically regulated through recycling.i propose that pi goods can be recycled, into either p0 or the previous tier what ever the csm/dev consider is most appropriate.this proposal is seeking support for the principle of recycling if pi rather than focusing on a single specific mechanic, but feel free to make suggestions for the csm/devs to consider."
"if this was implemented with a bit of a material loss and the pi goods turned into lower-level pi resources, it would be a good idea. not so sure about finished products, though, like poses 'n stuff."
"before i can support, i must know what do you want pi goods to be recycled into? back to p0s or minerals?"
"i support the topic.p.s. i trained gallente race about 1 year. \"the gallente problem\" is solved now for me. i have trained ammar and minmatar stuff.it is fantastic.paladin can shoot 15km and 50km with same dps like kronos but without refitting (pulse with mf or scorch)minmatar ships can switch damage types, they have free high slots for neuts or any other stuff without dps suffering, incredible alfa with arti.ammar ship does not need to move. scorch gives incredible optimal.and other arguments...p.p.s. i used proteus. it has very good paper dps. but i discovered strange thing. when i shoot webbed and scrambled drake at my optimal (2.2km with am) and orbit. my dps is about 2/3 - 1/2 of dps when i just stay and shoot. i think blasters need more tracking"
"my fix was to train amarr after about a year of burning gallente. when i'm feeling nostalgic enough to fly a gallente ship, it's fitted with arty's. but for a few t2 exceptions, gallente ships are just pre-salvage. the drones are nice, but gate guns and sleepers love to snack on them."
"i do support the fact that gallente ships have a focus problem but i do not agree with all your fixes...imo if you want to fix gallente you need to do 3 things:1. remove the repper bonus and replace it with an armor hp bonus (this will give gallente ships the ability to get close)2. reduce the mass of gallente ships (gallente ships should be slower then minmatar without speed mods but gallente ships should be a close second fast by givining them a reduced mass this will allow gallente to be fast and still have plates on...)3. increase base drone bay... gallente are supposed to be the drone people right?"
"as i read somwhere galente were first designed to hull tankyou'll notice that the hull repairer is a medium slot module, and galente have more mediums and less low compared to amar, wich makes sencehull tanking modules do not give speed penalties like armor modules, so the silly problem of armor tank and blaster range goes awayalso current hull tanking modules dont use as much grid as armor, so that's another issue solvedonly needed change for that is a massive boost to hull repair modules, and a few new hull resist modulesand a lot of balancing issues afterwards- that dosent fix hybrids but that's not the topic hereon secont thoughtthen we have issues with rr and fleet boosting and a lot of other stuff to solve, that would be a major change, basicaly scrap galente andf make whole new race"
"errrrrrrr... try fitting a dominix with all hull reinforcement bulkheads in the lows... you'll move slower than a constipated whale in molasses. those hull mods add ghastly amounts of mass to the ship they are fitted to which, in turn, severely reduces agility (i.e. acceleration, deceleration, and turning)."
"sry, didnt check before opening my mouth... ok so chanhe the hul modules to not slow down the shipminor problem if anyone would start implementing this huge change"
"i say remove all hybrids, give a boost to drone bandwidth and bonuses, limit drone link augmenters to one per ship and makes drones only down-able via something like the defender missiles. iow, make gallente all drone. that takes care of the speed issues and the power issues while eliminating all hybrid issues."
"support op"
"id be all for resist bonuses for armor like caldari have shield resist bonuses, thatd mitigate more damage and still keep performance of the original hull as well as reduce the requirement to have 2 armor reps as a minimum.bonuses to drone speed and drone hp would be great. gallente are ment to be pioneers and experts in drones, so it makes sense that they could get the most out of them. and itd mean the higher dps drones would actually last longer and may actually get to a pvp target for once without a few being taken out along the way!itd make sense to limit the drone bonuses to particular types, that way you could sill balance things... eg the keres could have ecm drone bonuses, ships designed mainly as blaster platforms could have light and medium drone bonuses and not heavy ones and vice versa!i do believe that drone bays need to be increased too."
"how about solution 4:change the armor-repair bonus so that it also increases the repair amount received by remote repair drones and modules.other then that i would increase range of blasters by at least 20% and tracking of blasters and rails by another 20% and descrease their cap use by 50%."
"i have through about the remote-repp bonus that you describe, and it does sound alright. we still need more powergrid or something though."
"that kind of rr would make armor rep bonused ships effectively invulnerable unless they were alpha'd in fleet fights."
"i did not understand anything you wrote. care to explain?"
"support op1- adestria or vindicator have the bonuses that all wallente ships should have2- hybrids sucks3- ship sucks+guns sucks = crosstrain =walleship with autos/artys best option for ccp: delete wallente race and hybrids, no more problems to resolve and we can finaly train something fun-any new char that asks me witch race/ship to train i allways answer: matar mabe is intended by ccp but in this case please be kind and give me back my sp so i can spent them in the good race."
"try reading it again slowly."
"he was probably originally going to suggest a 33% boost to received rr, primary buffer, and local reps ... but thought it might be overpowered"
"at issue is the closer a ship's engagement range is, the faster it needs to be able to fly. amarr is able to cope with armor tanking because they have a long engagement range for pulse. caldari cr missile boats work (the ones with good range bonuses), others are long range only platforms due to how slow the base speed is on caldari ships. minmatar are fast, so their engagement range isn't much of an issue. gallente are horribly crippled by being armor tanked and requiring the fastest speed to engage (pick one and it can only be armor tank) when it comes to cr engagements. put any tank on a gallente ship and it cripples its ability to engage further. speed and range need to match up. either increase blaster range or increase gallente speed in some way.as for fittings, i think all bs fitting needs to be looked at. across the board, they are tighter fits than bc and that is a fairly big problem.as for maxsim's solutions, grid/cpu needs are more influenced by the ship's tank than the weapons. shield tanks usually lack cpu and armor tanks lack grid. why gallente have substantially less grid than amarr has always baffled me. minmatar can get away with their weak cpu because part of their tank usually comes from speed."
"look at the last designed gallente ships: vindicator and proteus. think why they are good blaster ships.vindicator - true dps monster with web bonusproteus - has 10% armor hitpoints per lvl and 15% reduction in microwarpdrive cap consumption per lvl subsystemshere are answers how to improve gallente ships"
"i just showed exactly how it is, in fact, effected by tracking mods, and how inverted changes to tracking and signature resolution have identical impacts on hit chance... making your proposal to change both pointless.i bolded the part of the hit chance equation that is actually effected by tracking mods (aka- stacks with):hit chance = ((1/2)^(((transv/(range*tracking))*(sig_res/sig_rad))^2) +((max(0,range-optimal))/falloff)^2))you'll notice that the bolded part of the equation consists entirely of variables being multiplied together, some of which are inverted(division), and that it includes tracking and signature resolution. obviously if everything is being multiplied together, any changes to them are multiplied together as well, this means those changes stack."
"if there is some reasonable ways to make accounts more secure it is nice."
"if missioning is so risk free easy-isk then why are there suicide ganks at all? could it be that suicide ganks have way higher payouts for far less comparative time and risk than even missioning? which is more out of balance here?what they should do is allow fleet members to engage the aggressors. y'know, that whole armed escort idea. or hey, how about using that third party logi idea that is so popular among the griefer corps?"
"wow, you know what, i've seen this suggestions so many times i've decided to back it.yes ccp, please, please, please for the love of god remove high sec for at least 6 months. i want the people who keep suggesting this to see the results first hand with their own 2 dumb founded eyes. i think when they begin logging in after the first month and and see the markets fumbling and the server populations cut by 60% they'll finally get the true picture of eve.iow, removing high sec won't make the bears start playing the game the way you want, it'll just make them go to another game and if that's what you want then good luck in the next mmo you end up in after eve goes belly up."
"definitely on to something, i think.i think there's even more to it though. much of the gankings these days are quite pointless, and doesn't even bring in a profit. ganking hulks for example is a wide spread hobby, and whatever a hulk drops will barely even cover the cost of the disposable destroyers. feels like with every year intelligent pvp is more and more replaced by stupid gankings.pvp for territorial control i understand, mostly a null sec thing, but even eradicating a group of pirates or anti-pirates in low sec makes sense, at least if they can't afford to immediately replace the ships over and over. pvp for profit i understand, piracy as well as the occasional high sec gank. pointlessly blowing ships out of the sky for ****s and giggles though... it's just pointless. when pointless ganks become commonplace, it's a clear indication that it is too easy to gank, and there's not enough repercussions for doing it.we should also consider that we might get rid of many gankings if piracy was actually more viable in low sec. problem is that low sec is pretty underdeveloped, and appropriate targets can be hard to find. people have been saying for years that we need to give high sec people incentive to move their operations out into low sec, and risk losing a portion to the pirates. currently, the incentive is just about none. try to take up mining or missioning in low sec, and you will very soon find that the small extra income in most cases doesn't begin to cover the cost of the ships you lose to piracy and ganks. i do well in low sec - but that's because i work 90% in wormholes and with pi (which really only needs a little hauling now and then.) doing any actual activities in low sec systems is not in any way worth the risk.last time i scanned down a low sec site and decided to risk it and work on it (hacking i think) someone dropped a freaking tengu on my battlecruiser. i believe the correct term is \"wtfpwn\". i return to the wreck only to see that he's left my t2 drones floating in space, and hasn't bothered to salvage or even loot the wreck. this is what pvp in eve is like now. ganking for the sake of ganking, just for the sake of ruining my day. pvp outside of null sec has lost all meaning. it's depressing."
"are you serious? it's called lowsec for a reason. stay out of the kitchen if you can't take the heat. and what is with \"ganking for the sake of ganking?\" it's not gank, it's a 1v1 fight, in lowsec, one which you lost. no, he didn't take your useless t2 mods. but that's what pvp is supposed to be about, the fight, not the farming. the only problem with highsec missionrunner-gankers is that they are farmers on steroids who have no interest in actual pvp. they farm billions in a window of seconds, for no cost, while taking advantage of concord protection so no one can shoot them while they are scanning at gates, unlike in lowsec. the result is influx of second hand deadspace mods into market, hugely reduced demand, as carebears learn to buy cheaper faction mods that they don't get ganked for with their own lp, build up of excess supply, and rapid mudflation. this is the distortion effect on the market when someone finds a loophole to make billions of easy money in seconds. it must be filled or the sector of the economy will collapse."
"what is your malfunction?the only thing you'll ever get with your sucker ideas is some more empty low/null and an empty high sec, nice you've finished the game, next step? find another game to destroy, is that how your life goes fine?/facepalm"
"very well put. i agree with everything you said here."
"do we have any proof that suicide ganking is still overly lucrative given the time and effort involved? the insurance nerf must have hurt suicide gankers as did the changes regarding concord reaction time and sec status hits. sure every now and then you may hit big pay dirt with a billion + drop. but i'd imagine many times the prey tanks the attack or the loot is destroyed. from what i am hearing suicide ganking is not so profitable and may actually need a boost. i know my alts have tanked a few suicide attacks.the reason they get concord protection is because they win favor with concord by helping fight pirates."
"i lol-ed.seriously, suicide gankers are, for the most part, not in it for the insurance money. i still say all insurance money should be taken from them, mind you, but more out of principle, really. it's simply absurd to have concord subsidize their piracy. still, i'm not under any illision, whatsoever, that removing suicide-ganking related insurance payout will make any noticible difference.lucky for you, but i say those gankers were idiots. if they scanned you, and still brought too little to kill you, then... well, it would at least explain why they couldn't cut it as real pirates in lowsec. :)nani kore?! they are the pirates!suicide ganking exists, and becomes more rampant even, it seems, because of one thing: killmails. it's no longer about in-game benefits, such as loot, insurance, etc; but it's all about having your name on a killboard with a juicy victim, preferably a t3 ship. they often don't even bother to scan you any more.\"killmails killed eve.\" -- ranka mei"
"the proof is not any arguments and theories made by either side. it is in the market itself. build up of excess deadspace mods supply, rapid deflation (aka mudflation, which killed many past mmos), and decreased demand/trade rates. you can argue that suicide ganking is not overly lucrative, but the state of the market indicates it is."
"suicide ganks are lucrative if you are willing to wait with a team of other guys off a gate for a couple hours until your scout identifies a hauler/missioner with a promising load/modules to gank. each person can make over 100m isk, but you have to sit there at the ready for what can be hours. honestly, in general, i can make more off mission running than ganking other mission runners. but the chance that cnr has an officer module or two that drop is what does it for me. it is more like gambling, and thus more exciting than mindlessly running mission after mission."
"before going on with emorage it is good thing to try out how fun it is to live in low sec with macrohaulers. people are more than willing to put pirates in low sec, but hey who wants to go there to be robbed? people could probe out your level 4 and gank you with concord doing nothing omg and you'd lose your t1 fit drake and drop loot for 1 mil or something they'd get rich! that's how profitable low sec piracy is. counting out lightheads who autopilot freighters in rancer of course. it's about as intelligent as autopiloting noobship with capital ship skills in it. this thread is sorta fun. more. pls."
"so much isk-envy. that's what i think this all boils down to. people feel missioners make too much money compared to how they like to play the game, so they want to penalize the bears for not playing how they want them to. what's next, a proposal to raise the taxes on traders to 50% because they make money out of a station and not pvp?"
"train afterburner skill to lvl 5afterburner now runs for 15 seconds per activation instead of 10 seconds.not a problem until ccp introduced heat.now if you have afterburner skill trained you are a worse pilot because it takes you up to 50% longer to activate o.h. when needed.easy fix is to change afterburner skill to be.10% cap reduction instead of 10% longer activation..10% less damage done by overheat.hard fix is to get heat to apply instantly rather than waiting for cycle change."
"fix please so that training makes us better pilots not worse."
"supported."
"the hard way is the better way because then it would be implemented across all modules, not just afterburners. let's face it, if i need to overload my tank, i probably need it right effing now, not after the modules cycle."
"i agree, this is a change that needs doing. running heat at cycle change really takes a lot of the use of heat; when you need heat, you need it goddamn now!"
"yep. good point."
"this does sound a little... silly."
"sup-sup-supported"
"i have thought about this and there's 2 sides to the coin.you mentioned the bad side - you can't switch on overheat for 15 sec, unless you do it right away before fighting startsbut there's a good side - you can overheat your ab longer, it would take same amount of heat damage on 10 and 15 sec cycle. so on 10 sec cycle it would damage faster, you'll be able to overheat it less.i actually quite like that i can overheat my ab longer, and it's easy enough to prime the overheat button before combat."
"supported"
"signed"
"hello,after a brief skim through eve-search i've noticed that the cloaking subject isn't actively being discussed. i'd like to rise the issue to public attention again.first; a tl;dr of what is to come.topic:the cloak - philosophy and usageissue:- cloak allows people to evade combat encounters* enables people to use macro for ratting* greatly defeats point of roaming through hostile territory- afk cloaking is metagaming. character isn't being used for days on end. home space cannot be purged.based on these philosophies:- everything can be hunted, time is on your side- 0.0 is the final frontier for corporations and alliances. teamwork is key. nullsec has to be fought for, defended. its resources are the reward. ninja'ing should be possible but risky.- cloaks obscure numbers, key ships. covert ops need only slip behind enemy lines, have eyes on enemy movements. both could work without being permanent.- the game should be more about active play.- safety is something you can work towards, by sticking together, by placing assets (investing).a cloaking device as i perceive it is a module that allows ships to slip past enemy lines and perform reconnaissance in hostile territories. it allows hostile movements to be monitored discreetly, for as far as it is possible with player visibility in local.i can't imagine that the device was meant to be used on ships to reap the rewards of nullsec, cloaking up whenever an enemy gang enters local. safety is something that should be built up, invested in. starbases should be placed to harbor ratters. and safety should never be absolute.today i've led a roaming gang throughout the deep reaches of the great wildlands, performing the divide and conquer tactic. we came across about 15 people, sometimes we'd catch a glimpse of a raven on scan, only for it to disappear before the next scan could be performed. you can't scan them down, you can't comb through an area. no, there's nothing you can do. there he is, a juicy target, not docked, in the 'great wildlands', completely safe from the wolves. not surprising that macro ratters can exist.i can live with the regular cloak being a method of evading attackers, but it should not allow someone to stay cloaked indefinitely. being able to hide for 5 to 10 minutes, obscuring where you are and what you're in, buying you time to get backup, that's how it should be, no?remember the motto? 0.0 is the final frontier, bring friends and isk. nullsec is controlled by cohesive groups of players working together to maintain land. you need friends to rely on. still, the cloak allows people to just solo it up. heck, we ran across several unaffiliated solo ratters too.--------though i have several suggestions on changes to the cloaking devices, such suggestions tend to become the main focus of critique rather than the problem itself. i therefore leave only the suggestion that cloaks only work for an x amount of time before needing a cooldown, a time window in which a ship can be located.i ask my readers to discuss the desribed philosophies first and foremost, before suggesting fixes. i want to make sure that my philosophies are in line with player expectations and if so, stress these to the csm.thank you for your time."
"well, the matter of the cloak goes a bit beyond just the cloak, extending among other things into the \"nerf local\" discussion. the whole thing also looks very different, depending on what territory you are in, what side you are on, and what ship the cloak's attached to. the matter of the cloak is widely argued in numerous threads, though very rarely discussed.to begin with, let's just look at the areas:claimable null sec space - here the discussion revolves around how safe you should be able to make your own space. afk cloakers are attacked on the forums for making things too unsafe while risking nothing. on the flip side, if the cloak's nerfed - pve/mining becomes 100% safe, as you can simply dock up as soon as a ship appears in local. safer than in empire. with system upgrades, it's even more profitable. so... do we nerf local to compensate and give pirates a chance?unclaimable null sec space - i guess here, as you describe, the cloak is largely a way for ratters to avoid pvp, and the use of it here is questionable, especially on what is essentially a warship.w-space - this is the new null sec. lawless, and there isn't even stargates to use. the long sessions you spend scanning down a system to find everything makes the cloak priceless and necessary.low sec - low sec as we all know is swarming with pirates and gankers, and there's not a whole lot of mining and pve going on. even with a cloak, you can barely work due to the large movement of people in the systems.and then there's ship types:covops frigates - as a core scanner, the ship is in desperate need of its cloak. as a cyno ship... maybe it's too powerful.covert cruisers and battleships - while they have specific uses, they are also subject to abuse as ratters that just can't be touched.blockade runners - a harmless ship that's heavily reliant on the cloak to move small amounts of cargo between a and b.standard ships - normal warships with no cloak bonuses. ratters, and to some extent miners, i guess. they do their thing, and vanish if something looks scary. questionable.question really is... how in the hell do we make all this work, all at the same time? we can't just nerf the cloak to solve some issues, and screw everyone else who rely on them. most of the time, people only look at these things from their own, rather narrow, point of view. the changes claimable null sec has gone through, introduction of cloaking t2 cruisers, cloaking t2 battleship, cynos and caps... it's all made the cloaking situation more and more complicated. it's been crap planning from ccp's part, but it still needs to be worked out.it's messy, and i don't even know where to begin to straighten it all out.edit: and i definitely support discussing this matter..."
"i think maybe the main issue of the cloaks are tied to local chat. the main ways the cloak is \"exploited\" can be tied to local in one way or another. in claimable null sec, the cloaks are the only element of uncertainty, and as such nerfing local is beginning to sound pretty good.as for unclaimable null sec - it's again tied to local but in a different way: this time it's grinders that use the cloak - and ironically it's the appearance of players in local chat that make them warp off and cloak up. maybe here too, nerfing local is an idea.i dunno. just... thinking."
"thinking is good. different scenarios based on the type of space are a no-go though, i don't think it's possible with game mechanics, and it would make things complicated.there's another thread in the assembly hall about being able to stay cloaked when jumping through a gate, not giving your position away unlike now, where you'll show up quickly. not sure if a session change allows recharge states to carry over to another system, otherwise it makes sense for recon/covert ships to move to safety before going on another scouting run.local is an issue, but on the short term i don't think we can make any changes to how it works. short term thinking is how we can get this hotfixed.having to 'cool down' a cloak periodically, depending on the type of cloak is what i'm thinking of. it takes away the afk in afk cloaking, ships that are specialised in cloaking can sustain it for longer, require less time to recharge, you name it.really black and white thinking: no cloaked ship should be able to stay cloaked for long periods of time, allowing defending parties to remove intruders and keeping covert activities as an actual job, one that needs to be attended to.still open for debate however."
"i typed a nice long smart response, then managed to delete the text before posting, so here's the short stupid version:a cloaker has to enter your system - dangerousexit system - dangerousand rat very carefuly - active playthe game dosent support any kind of gtfo option, except cloak, that is the only chance the guy has against anythinghe has to move sometime, if you wait him out you can still get him, it's a battle of will and endurance, since the guy dosent stand a chance in combat, that's for shurea afk scout dosent scout anything, he's afk, he's useless untill the time he comes back, and then he's actively collecting info and playing the gameany change to cloak would just make him log out while afk, no difference here except the panic because of hostile in local. remove cloaked ships from local and problem fixed.the only real issue is macro ratters, you cant play a waiting game with them, they win every time, but they too need to enter system sometime and need ammo and need to drop off looteverything considered i dont see the problemonly issue is with gangs that feel cheated out of killmails because they dont want to invest time and effort for a single kill, whell that ship and pod are worth a lot to someone, and he does want to invest time to protect iteve is already all about huge blobs, the \"bring a buddy\" rule shouldnt be the only option every time"
"right.a cloaker has to enter your system - dangerousit's very freakin' easy.exit system - dangerousit's very freakin' easy. do you really think that all gates are camped 23/7?and rat very carefuly - active playyou're actually right on this. it is active play.the game dosent support any kind of gtfo option, except cloak, that is the only chance the guy has against anythinghe has to move sometime, if you wait him out you can still get him, it's a battle of will and endurance, since the guy dosent stand a chance in combat, that's for shureand you think we are going to wait out a ratting raven for hours on end? be realistic. yeah he has no chance in combat, that's the soft 'ratting' core in nullsec that should be defended by a pvp group. nullsec == pvp. survival of the fittest.a afk scout dosent scout anything, he's afk, he's useless untill the time he comes back, and then he's actively collecting info and playing the gameany change to cloak would just make him log out while afk, no difference here except the panic because of hostile in local. remove cloaked ships from local and problem fixed.when logged out he can't feed intel, he doesn't show up as a threat, etc. when he's logged in, he's active, he's tangible. not having cloaked ships in local would work too, removes the psyche effect.the only real issue is macro ratters, you cant play a waiting game with them, they win every time, but they too need to enter system sometime and need ammo and need to drop off lootever done this yourself? you're basically asking us to camp you out for hours. playing karaoke on ts only keeps us entertained for -this- long.everything considered i dont see the problemonly issue is with gangs that feel cheated out of killmails because they dont want to invest time and effort for a single kill, whell that ship and pod are worth a lot to someone, and he does want to invest time to protect itsee previous commenteve is already all about huge blobs, the \"bring a buddy\" rule shouldnt be the only option every timewait, blobs? i can't even solo in a recon ship because local cloaks up. blobs have nothing to do with this, a ratting ship dies to a pvp gang anyway. that's why nullsec entities need to be in groups. because nullsec is the barren wasteland, where you can't hide. i understand from your reaction that you believe nullsec is meant to be consensual pvp?"
"i just said that it's a possibility, just like catching him on entry and exit. he's not invulnerable all the timeno, you misunderstud, i said that is an issue and you cant do almost anything against a macromacro ratter+cloak is a real issue just because a macro has more time and patience than any human beingno, but i believe that a player or a smaller gang should have atleast some options of survivaland not create situations where if a bigger blob enters a system you all die.the current option is cloak, which is boring for both sides but atleast the losing side gets a chance of surviving if the attackers give upi support all those guys that want to remove local from null, that way your targets wouldnt know your there (if you're skilled enough) and wouldnt cloak up and that's the sollution, they still have a chance of surviving and cloaking, but it's all dependant on attacker and target skill and the situation, that's just my opinion, that's why i live in a wh, makes pvp so much more fun (if you can find it )"
"beginning to sound ok if, and only if, cloaks are nerfed alongside it. like becoming scannable and probeable. else it goes from an element of uncertainty to absolute uncertainty. cloaky fleets would reign supreme. especially with the nice ai that makes you fit gaping holes in your defenses, and the nice industrial ships that ccp so thankfully gave paper thin tanks, the better to be ganked.ccp made people performing money making activities in this game gimp themselves, make themselves prey. their only defense is running."
"i was going to say something rather lengthily... but all i can come up with is -\"your doing it wrong\"there's nothing wrong with the cloak.it's all you pal... learn to play the game. :)oh and \"its all in your head\"ps: you obviously didn't search hard enough... we get these damned anti-cloak nooblet crying fests every bloody week. and like all of them... they get ignored. change local to delayed and you still have the same problem... you just can't see them... and i suspect you'll be crying then too."
"nevertheless, they still face more risk for a lot less rewards than your blob.1. u wanna be realistic? a while ago, i've had an alliance try to scan me down for an entire week...in npc 0.0... yeah, they were that desperate...2. translation: u think 0.0 ratting profits should be split to the point where it's not even worth doing? right...or maybe ppl can *gasp* adapt? 3. blob mechanics: gank small gangs/solo pilots, scout counter-blobs and run from them. that's even more skewed in risk vs reward than afk cloaking, which nets 0 kills. u wanna stick to what u're doing, fine--just don't cry about one person that 100+ of u can't get epeen-boosting killmails on.wait, u said an afk cloaker is not active, but now u say he is? well i'm sry if 100+ of u can't handle one person who can't even harm a fly. i mean, that's the nature of 0.0, which u can't seem to handle, so apparently, u just want 0.0 to be a easy, riskless, killmail faucet... well i'm sry if your targets won't automatically submit to your non-consensual pvp. but just because he doesn't consent, it doesn't mean he has to fight, same reason why a blob wouldn't fight a counter-blob. here's an idea though--u wanna be \"entertained\"? there r plenty of other alliances u can fight if u really want to. just attack their possessions. ditto1. omg lmfao...u do realize that u're doing the exact same thing a ratter would do because u're in the exact same situation he's in? oh who am i kidding...of course u don't realize that. get some perspective for once...damn...2. wrong again. 0.0 is completely unrestricted, simple as that. u have your blobs, they have their cloaks. u have your non-consensual direct pvp, they have their adaptation to it...or to u, non-consensual psychological pvp. and it looks like u're the one who can't handle 0.0 since u're the one on the forums crying to nerf your targets. do u want to force ppl to fleet to even jump into 0.0? maybe drive down the individual profits to nothing or in your case, maybe the ****ty pilots can carry each other to their easy ratter killmails? tl;dr--htfu and find someone else to farm killmails off of, if u can even handle that."
"not supported. cloaks work just great as they are."
"qft"
"cloaked ships should be probable but it should require alot of training and maybe tech2 probes, and even then there can be innacuracies maybe +10km in accuracy of warp in point.at least this way macro ratters can be killed easier where as cov ops pvpers can avoid it by constanty moving.another alternative could be single ships can be probed out but more than one cloaked ships (in fleet) become harder to probe down upto a maximum of 10 where they can not be probed down at all."
"drake, you have no killboard records. mind telling me how you can possibly have an informed opinion on this?anna, you have killboard stats... in highsec killing mackinaws. the only nullsec experience you've had is in a bomber, bombing the pf- gate.so anna, where do you get your informed opinion from?"
"hahahahahaahhahahahahehehehohohohohoahahahahahahahaha(coughcoughsputter)you actually think killboards are an indication of skill and level of experience?are you really that big of a dumbass?first off... this isn't my only toon. (derp derp)secondly... battleclinic is not an authoritative killboard... it doesn't update live.thirdly... killboards are the games worst and largest intelligence leak in the history of the game.. i intentionally avoid showing up on them in the first place... hard to do but its possible.all you did there was prove to us that you are the most unqualified person here to propose any kind of change of any kind if that's all you got for an counter argument.this isn't carebear on-line noob... this is eve online... can't handle the heat? get out.i will proudly show up and afk cloak your system with glee!thanks for the laugh... needed that."
"of course i look for killboard stats, if you claim to know all this ****, you surely have had your experiences with it. and having experiences with afk cloakers / cloaked ratting ships would mean that you actually go out and roam.your lack of kills and losses and your residence in a carebear corp/alliance suggest that you don't know **** about what you're talking about, your arguments are invalid. you fail, have a good one. post with your main if there's a point to be made."
"local needs to be removed, but i'd rather not change cloaking as it is. getting through thick enemy territory and surprising enemies would be much harder should you make cloaking have a time limit."
"that's because this is my industrialist account you idiot.i specialize with stealth bombers btw.... i know all to well what covert ops cloaking ships can do.i don't need to prove anything to anyone... specially an kill *****ing noob such as yourself."
"get out of this thread if you have no credentials to back it up then.i understand where you're coming from, i realise that a time limit would not be the best solution. still, would you agree with the line of thinking when it comes to the purpose of the cloaking device as it is and should be?"
"personal attacks? how mature.this is an open forum... if you can post stupid ideas... i can post my \"invalid credentialed opinions.\"u mad?"
"if you're referring to the afk cloaking vs. infiltrating enemy territory (or scanning down unfamiliar territory with lowered risk), then yes, i agree. to me, afk cloaking is an exploit, but that's just my opinion..."
"i propose that a feature be added to allow for the \"unlearning\" of skills. the skillpoints from this process minus a penalty should be available to use on other skills.a time limiting factor like remaps should also be put in place."
"the key phrase \"time limit\" i was looking for was in your third sentence.i absolutely, 100%, undeniably support this."
"absolutely not supported. if you're bored with your hulk, go to the character bazaar"
"not exactly a new topic but...personally i don't see the problem. a time limit, and losing a percentage of the sp you shuffle around should prevent any \"abuse\" such as jumping on every draketrain that is currently popular. any attempt to change too much, too often will soon nerf your character into noob-hood."
"i like the idea...i see no reason why this shouldn't be possible especially if you don't get a 1/1 ratio back on skill points and you have to pay to do it."
"i support this. why?-it lets you correct training mistakes, -so long as their is at least a 50% sp reduction penalty, the system cannot be abused by training high attribute skills,-it lets new players explore different race ships without being permanently stuck with ship skills they do not want,-it lets players that are tired of their current job to switch, albeit with a penalty, to something new and allows the game to stay fresh.with 50% penalty to points(1.e. you lose 50% of the trained points on switching), a yearly cooldown, and being unable to pay for the switch as a micro transaction i think this would go a long way to helping eve and increasing player retention.signing off,-papa"
"not supported."
"why?why?i mean... hey, it's fine to disagree, but at least try to be constructive. offer a reason. what will it unbalance? or is it just fun to deny people a possibility to correct some mistakes?"
"supported. the reason being, that due to poor mechanics, certain skills have negative effect on you in some situations. you train up negotiation skills, and suddenly your favorite highsec mission agent reach the effective quality threshold to reach into lowsec. you train up afterburner, and suddenly ab cycle is long enough that ab warp no longer saves you align time. there is no way to unlearn skill, you're stuck. i'd settle for a significant penalty for unlearning, even no sp return in acceptable in those cases."
"*insert bitter vet comment here*"
"supported. i see nothing against redistributing that which you already learnt."
"depends on the ratio as wellturning 1mil sp into 750k sp unallocated seems fair as well as only can do it once per year.this means people can start out mining, then move to pve, then remove mining and perfect pve/pvp skills.this also means high sp characters no matter the skillset wil have value, a trader alt with max trade skills might not be worth much but with this 75% of thier sp can go into whatever you want."
"my, aren't you the clever one. in lieu of a legitimate opinion, you just insert juvenile and churlish smack for anyone who disagrees with the op."
"sp remapping makes sense in games where there are hard limits on how many points you can spend on developing your character, but in eve such restrictions don't exist. here the feature serves to satisfy three needs, sp farming, getting rid of unwanted skills and quick skill switching.sp farming isn't a big problem, if you apply a huge penalty to the transfers. this way it would be inefficient to change sp even from max attribute training to min attribute skills. from sp maximizing standpoint a remap would always be a loss in sp.getting rid of unwanted skill is unnecessary. there is no limit to how many sp you can have, so you have only lost time with that training, and you only consider it wasted now. you could very easily change your mind later and find a use for those 'wasted' sp. until there is a hardcap on how many sp a character can have, there aren't any wasted sp in eve. it also makes the characters more vulnerable when someone with malicious intent gets access to the account.quick switching of skills goes against the eve design philosophy of making choices that matter, it isn't necessary either because of the infinite sp you can have and caters mainly to the fotm chasers. with sp remapping you can always chase the fotm exclusively and remap when the inevitable nerf comes to the next fotm setup without having to wait or suffer any negatives for over specializing in training. allowing this will reduce even more the variety of setups and ships the players will fly from what it is today. not a change i'm willing to support.basicly the benefits of this feature are miniscule for eve with negatives mixed with the benefits and the feature just largely caters to player behavior, that ccp shouldn't try to cater to anyway. not supported."
"not quite. i'd love to be able to forget a bunch of the industrial and science skills i haven't used in years and downgrade to a lower class of clone. unless you have a few billions of isk to spare(or a few hundred in cash) to buy yourself a character from the totally ok and supported bazaar, because obviously when we say choices that matter, we mean choices that matter for poor folk.i'd go for the idea. i would say you could forget one entire skill every few months, or even better, you can forget an entire skill, but can't forget a new one for the period of time those skillpoints represent(at base stats), or 2x that period. also can't reset prereqs, of course. lastly, doing this means you would have to purchase the skill book again if you ever changed your mind."
"stealth \"reuse \"useless\" sp thread detected\"grow up nooblets.no one said you had to train that skill in the first place... learn to live with your mistakes.if it offends you that much... repeatedly pod yourself :-peventually you'll lose that skill/sp's."
"it makes sense to integrate such an atrocity into the npe, but for everyone else one must assume people know what the hell they are doing since they are manually buying a skillbook, manually injecting it and manually clicking train."
"one of the first things i did was research and did a little reading before i chose the skill books i need/want.for some reason... there are a lot of people who blindly go forth.i think i have... 1 skill book i found not so useful... but then... it could be useful in a number of circumstances... but i have yet to point out any \"useless\" skill as it is.i find the concept of \"useless skills\" rather hard to identify... maybe i'm just that weird."
"hence the mention of the npe. tutorial dumps all manner of books into your lap as rewards with just a short description of what it does.makes sense to use a skill refund system as a final step in the tutorial, but not elsewhere."
"+1 op lots of people for many reasons should be able to do it so, wy not once per year like the remap?i would realy like to refound all my skills in useless hybrids and gallente useless ships to minmatar or amarr ships/guns."
"we meet again. once again you have completely failed to read the discussion going on here.this is not a simple \"i trained this now i don't wanna have it no more , waaaaa!\" type of deal. this is an introductory sp swap for new players. it's been highlighted over and over, new players spend alot of sp in areas that they'll end up not using. allowing a new character to, once or very strictly regulated, reassign some of their spent sp at a 50% cut, will not only encourage new players to explore all the races/ships/roles but will in the end reduce frustration and increase retention. really? the end of the tutorial? so, like an hour after starting the game?iirc, the only book from the tutorial that i didn't end up using was projectile weapons, because it was already trained. all the rest were good support skills; shield and armor skills, ewar, electronics, etc.primarily i think it's ship skills that need to be relearned. let me give an example of my beginning;when i first started, i hadn't a flying f*** what was going on. i had no friends that played the game, had no guide. i had no idea what i wanted to fly, what i wanted to do, or which race i should specialize in. what's a noob to do? i trained them all. i got each race to battleship class to see which one i liked best. the end result was i enjoy amarr and minmatar ships and weapons, really do not like faildari and gallente. how was i to know way back when that those ships would not appeal to me? i couldn't. so now i have several million wasted sp in caldari, gallente, and hybrid weapons which i doubt highly i will every want back; i'd prefer to specialize."
"i wholeheartedly agree with this especially after ccp changes something in the game that makes all that learning feel \"wasted\"!"
"not supported."
"yeah i like to be able to remove the skills i'll never use.they mess with my ocd."
"an hour? you must either be an insanely fast reader/learner or skipped a lot of the content.also sounds like you only did the combat tutorial, during testing of the new system there were 3-4 different paths if i recall.point still stands though, after the initial learning curve has been conquered the hand-holding should stop. when that should be is up for debate, but around the 2m sp mark or so seems reasonable (ie. approximately same point where old accelerated training stopped).sorry for your plight, if only you had read the rather extensive material available (both official and unofficial) on ships, modules, weapons etc. before deciding on what path to focus on.what this whole thing amounts to is a person buying a product, then uses it until something better comes along and then demands a refund .. world does not and should not work like that.instant gratification in eve should only come from the billion ticker in wallet, the boom and the squish of combat and the tears of virgins.once you start rewarding/protecting laziness you attract all the adolescent turds floating around in the mmo sea which will be the death-knell for eve (high'ish average age plus serious spaceship business)."
"if i'm the clever one, then i guess you're the rather dimwitted one since you copied what i did. also, your opinion is not valid until you explain why, just like those responses which had no reasoning.also, umadbro?"
"ccp can and do change the game balancing radically, but players can't change their choices. if all choices are final, they must be final for everyone. with the incoming of sleeper ai on rats, drone users will be hit hard, many of whom do not have sp invested in other fields in order to maintain an income stream to replace pvp ships, buy plex, etc. should they be pushed out of the game just because they had no warning that ccp is going to invalidate droneboats for pve, at the time that they learned those skills?"
"the only frustration i see here is someone has a couple of low tiered skill books they want to get rid of.... well that's your defense... skills you picked up from tutorial.get over yourself... man up... this is eve online.don't like it? quit.you can stop training on any and all skills... you can cross-train at any time.this... would solve nothing nor would it achieve nothing but balance breaking mechanics and increase char farming something fierce.if your not smart enough to figure out the fact that sp's being reimbursed tilt the balance of training very much in your favor... your really are a noob."
"i do quite like this idea.it would provide a minor balancing aspect for older players wishing to retrain quickly and the fact that they would lose some sp in the process would mean evening out the field for younger players.it would also reinforce the fact that you should be more attached to your characters. if ccp are aiming for an ultimate scifi simulator, they should be looking at ways to make people more attached to their char, and adding any kind of flexibility like this is going to help that along. this will help reduce character trading the the accompanying fraud by enabling people to better re-spec their chars into something that is useful.in real life if you stop doing something every day, you get less good at doing it. you don't just take your life to a character bazaar and trade it in for one that does what you want it to do - that cheapens the whole experience from a personal perspective - which isn't going to help immersion any.of course you'd be an idiot to reskill your 5/5/5/5/5/5/5 titan pilot or whatever, but you've already hit the endgame there.p.s - i wonder how many sp in total across tranquility would get lost of hybrid/gallente skills if this were to become a reality - any bets?"
"def like this idea, i've accidentally trained a few skills (projectiles) that i wouldn't mind removing. even if i don't get the sp back, looking at the impurity of a projectile skill nestled in with all my laser skills makes me sad in the pants region."
"500mil for corp on corp might be too much, but if alliance is involved then yes.currently wardecs are broken because its just about grief nothing else then that."
"if ccp catered to majority, then this game would only push carebear ideals. it would quickly stop being a hardcore pvp game, it would gradually become more wow-like.and even tho subscription numbers for eve would be rising, the eve we know would truly be dead."
"the eve i knew died ages ago. there was a time when pvp doesn't have the same meaning as grieving carebears, and 1v1 exist. ah, more innocent times. engine trail keeps popping up in my head when i think about it, for some reason..."
"and that attitude certainly helps. who in the hell said anything about catering only to a carebear majority? i'm talking about everyone, so stop being a jerk for a moment will ya? i said figure out what people want, and combine it with ccps vision - and then come up with a functional solution. i never said \"give people what they ask for\" - that was all your own negative doomsday vision.since i clearly need to clarify myself: i'm sure a solution can be found that provides a batter situation for pirates, and carebears, and nullsec empire builders, and hell - everyone. the current system is crap. we can do better. we can do better, without turning it into the nightmare you want to see.try to be a bit constructive, will ya, please?"
"as for letting ccp know what players want, they setup a system of csm representatives.it is the job of csm to convey to ccp what people want. it is up to csm people to make surveys and deliver results to ccp. survey cannot bypass csm, otherwise what's the point of having them in first placeand if they can't make a difference, a simple survey has no chance in hell"
"well fine, \"i suggest the csm makes a survey\" then, because so far csm seems to be mostly receiving complaints about nerfs and buffs - all of them one-sided, ego-centered and selfish in nature, and i seriously doubt they will make everything better in any way."
"just to explain where i come from, and what i'm hoping to see happen...i've spent a long time doing the carebear thing in high sec, and if there's one thing i can say for sure it's this: the profits are way too high. it's no problem to grind up 50 million in a day on a single character. right now, i live in low sec, mostly because it's the least screwed up place in eve.it's been said about a million times: there needs to be incentive for people to leave high sec. what's happend so far? pretty much nothing. we have a situation where massive numbers of people grind in relative safety in high sec, and spend their money on high sec ganks, or playing (anti-)pirate in low sec. high sec grinding easily pays for the loss of ships. hell, i even did that myself for a while.so what does this do to low sec? well, it floods with even more pvp ships, making it even harder to make a living on pve, mining, etc out here. and high sec? well, since there's no targets in low sec - pirates run around ganking in high sec, because that's where the grinders are. so yeah, we could make high sec less safe and think it solves anything, but it doesn't. it'll just **** off the true carebears.i think what high sec needs is a massive profit nerf. missions, mining, bounties, loot - everything. slash it, and slash it hard. it's not exactly hard to make a living in high sec. you could easily slash profits down to 50% or more, and it'll still be easy as pie! (we can leave level 1 missions unchanged for the nubs.) anyone that keeps losing ships in pvp though will have to enter low sec space to pay for their habit. they might not be overjoyed either, but it's what eve is really about isn't it? if you want to gank people - you better be prepared to get ganked right back when you are in a squishy ship. having a good influx of people into low sec gives pirates something to do, besides harass people in high sec.while we are at it - increase sec rating loss massively for ganks in high sec. send the pirates into low sec too, where they belong. make ganks rare again. high sec will be the domain of newbies and true carebears anyway, so what's the point in ganking there? besides, hiding in high sec and ganking carebears is not what eve should be about anyway. again - if you want to gank people - better be ready to be ganked right back.as far as i'm concerned, this should both secure high sec, and bring life to low sec - pirates, industrialists and all. ok, so the true carebears will miss their profits, but the pirates will leave them alone; that could make for a better situation over all. the pirates shouldn't be too unhappy either: they have targets now, in low sec.there's a lot more that needs to be addressed though, like the null sec situation, where half the camp screams for cloak nerfs, and the other screams for local nerfs. the big question is actually: \"what should null sec be in the first place?\" should it be the scary unsafe area it was originally designed as? should it be the opposite - a place to build empires, allowing you to \"secure\" your own territory and protect your industrial/pve operations? if it's the first, i guess local has to go - but if it's the second, sure, nerf cloaks, but you need to cut the profits of all operations in there as well. after all - they aren't risking anything any more, and their profits should suffer. maybe we need both types of null sec, but in different places? heck - isn't w-space actually a replacement for the old dangerous null-sec already? it's truly lawless, like null sec used to be.of course, these are all just my opinions and musings... which is why i think it's important to find out what everyone else wants too, to find out what's best for eve as a whole - all of eve. i sure as hell don't have all the answers, and i don't speak for everyone. i know we can create a much more awesome eve though, if we stop the selfish whining for a while and try to figure out some long term solutions that work."
"problem with highsec- only safe area for solo or small group of players, cant go low or null because of blobs, and all those who kos whoever isnt blue, also wardec's are too cheap and its more of legal griefing, you cannot stop a wardec if you are the ones deced. it makes no sense its not a war it's a nuisance. with my personal money, i can wardec an alliance for over a year.problem with lowsec-is that there are so many yaarr tards that its impossible to do pve, or mining in low without being swarmed.raising rewards will not help. there needs to be something to deter pirates more then blob them or run from them.nullsec's problem- is everyone is friendly, i think nullsec was envisioned to be about holding small area's of space with you, and a few allies, not \"high we own 300 systems and will blob all who enter\" i mean, sometimes you enter there space and no one is home. i'm also pretty sure the highsec-> nullsec logistics was supposed to be the idea, with jf's or better yet, large freighter convoys- in null issues you can throw in moon minerals are not spread well. bot's will be in the place of most profit per hour with minimal losses. if thats in highsec, then they will be there, if its deep on 0.0 alliance space then they will be there.i think the biggest issue at the moment is botting, and lowsec yartards. if its safer in lowsec more \"carebears\" will go there and get ganked occasionally. meaning those pirates might not q_q over lack of targets.lowsec is a good place to get feet wet in null, so many corps and alliances will take space or try to take space. even if renting eventually space will run out and conflict will erupt."
"instead of nerfing high sec, why not buff low sec. you suggest nerfing highsec to remove the high rewards in relative safety. the thing is players will still be able to grind safely in high sec regardless of reward. people who mine or run missions will keep doing what they are already do. why? because there is no reason not to, its safer than low sec, unless a substantial buff accompanies any nerfing of high sec no one is going to leave a crappy grinding life of safety for a crappy grinding life in the line of fire.i cannot support this."
"well, i guess by \"yarrtards\" you mean... well, i always made a distinction between pirates and gankers:pirates:in it for the money! they take down anything that is likely to give a good profit, either as cargo, or as expensive modules. they do not attack cheap targets, and they do not pod - these things only make sure it'll be even longer before the same character returns with a rich load to hijack. in fact, ransoms are preferred over death - less risk of things being destroyed in the explosion, and it hurts the victim less. better for everyone involved.gankers:attack anything, the weaker the better! pod everyone too; it'll improve the size of the e-peen. they don't give a crap about making a profit (they grind their money in high sec), and they don't care if they ruin people. they are in it for the tears. personally, i respect pirates. i don't like them, but i respect them. gankers though... useless waste of space. thing is, i'm not sure much can be done about gankers - except possibly remove the crazy profits of the high-sec grind. they way things are now, ganking is encouraged. piracy is real hard, and a main reason is a plain lack of targets.i'm ganked a lot these days, but very rarely do i feel like i've been a victim of piracy."
"*sigh*this is not a suggestion to nerf high sec. i'm suggesting we make a survey to find out what can be done, and what should be done, in order to get this game back on track.like i said, those were my personal opinions, and i don't have all the answers. i was merely posting some background on myself, and some of my own personal opinions to put some of the doomsday prophets at ease - to show that i'm not trying to create a carebear space version of farmville.besides... buff low sec, nerf high sec... what's the difference? it's all about how they relate to each other anyway. and there's null ec to take into account, and w-space. we need to balance everything. my point is merely that when i can grind high sec, and buy a fully equipped battleship every 2 days - something is freaking wrong.i'd like to think you would support the topic because you don't agree with my personal opinions. the alternative to collectively trying to figure out a good path for eve's future, is to do it with selfish cries for nerfs and buffs. and god knows where that'll lead us... surely it can't be so bad to figure out what everyone wants to get out of the game, could it?"
"your skill at doubletalk is so amazing, you should run for congress. heck, run for csm, i'm sure you'll get most of the idjut vote.sorry, perhaps you should think more about your stance on a proposal before you make such grandiose claims. i cannot support this."
"i can second this and also say i still dream of engine trails but realy one on one's and low sec can be fixed by puting in place the old scaning system for misson dead spaces at least in low sec. that is what mainly killed off low sec and finding one on one fights. in my own opion so take it with a gran of salt."
"it's a shame you can't separate the message in the original post from my personal opinions in the latter ones. nowhere in the original suggestion does it say a god damn word about nerfing a god damn thing. it merely suggests that we actually find out what the situation is like before we start doing anything. we got one big portion of nullsec screaming to nerf the afk cloakers, and the remaining portion is screaming for it to stay and local to be removed. we get countless posts on reducing high sec protection, and just as many stating the absolute opposite. i was just suggesting that maybe, just maybe, it would actually make sense to find out how many people think what about which things, before we start trying to make decisions on how to improve the game.but **** it... i should know better than to write anything and expect people to actually ****ing read what it says and take it for what it says. let's just lock the topic shall we, and next week i'll rewrite the suggestion in language that even a 5 year old can't misinterpret."
"oh, null sec with no stations or pos, how i miss you.. :("
"the problem with surveys is you get idiots who post one thing and say something else only to reveal they have no bloody concept or idea of what they speak of.while ccp is obviously and massively screwing up imho... they do get at least this much right.they don't just take anyone's word or opinion for it... it being your viewpoint on any number of subjects.it's quite obvious from the op that your favoring one of two camps here.as to what.... i won't get into because its a waste of time.but as to why... you should get this clearly in your head before you say an another word.eve online is not pvp online... nor is it carebear online... nor is it greif online.. nor is it yar online.its eve online.with a ying...and a yang.it must have balance... it must have both parts.... one cannot live without the other... and vice versa.it's not as easy as saying \"nerf this\" or \"buff that\".for every idea there is a consequence... people always ignore that it seems... blinded by personal desire or greed.think of others before you jump to your \"own\" conclusions. (no... i'm not saying think of your friends and mates... think of your enemies and the people who oppose you... try to understand why...)"
"the problem of that is that it would require months before having an effect on \"carebear\" population in low sec while pirates/gankers will scream from day one and it will impact fleet combat too so we would have another set of screamers from there. end result is that it will not happen."
"thank you. that's the first reply in the thread that's actually worth the space it occupies. it's definitely not as easy as \"nerf this\" or \"buff that\". unfortunately, 95% of the suggestions around here that affect balance are exactly this - simple demand to buff or nerf, usually hopelessly one-sided and inspired out of personal greed. this is exactly why i was asking for some kind of survey, to find out what people want, how many want it, and whether any of it is actually a good idea to put into effect - after you take it all into consideration as a whole.i certainly have a whole lot of personal opinions, and i expect everyone else to have a whole lot of other opinions. however they are just that - opinions. we are all entitled to them, and in the end our opinions of how things should be can end up affecting the shape the future, if only a little.eve is a huge interconnected puzzle, and we need to see to the balance of the whole before we run off and make quick fixes. the whole \"nerf cloaks\" argument for example is pretty much completely seen from the null sec alliance perspective. it's rare that anyone bothers to even consider how a change would affect gameplay in low sec, or w-space, or unclaimable null sec like the great wildlands. that's kind of my point. before we start making decisions about the cloak, maybe we should listen to what everyone else have to say - especially those that aren't involved in claimable 0.0 space.same thing goes for the nerf local argument. and the high sec is too secure argument. and the \"stop gankings\" argument. and all the other arguments. all these issues connect with each other; we can't possibly nerf cloaks and not expect it to impact how local is used, and vice versa. anything that affects balance in one place ends up affecting pretty much everything else as well, more or less directly.a first step should probably be to find out what people want out of the game. yes, there will be a lot of unrealistic ideas, but there will probably be quite a bit of useful information and statistics as well. who knows? maybe the bulk of the carebears would love to head into low sec and risk the wrath of the pirates if the profits were better. maybe the gankers wouldn't be ganking if there were people to pirate in low sec. i simply don't know because as far as i seen, nobody ever bothered to ****ing ask. it's mostly a shouting match between small groups of people, and there's no telling if one side is in majority or not,since most people don't bother to visit the forums in the first place.i was hoping just cms or ccp or someone could start gathering some information, so there's actually a foundation on which to start making decisions."
"most \"true\" carebears want a game to relax. they aren't interested in getting an adrenaline rush fighting another player in fast paced combat. some of them don't even get the adrenaline rush. the reaction to a gank/fight is more \"bother, now i need to spend some time to get at the same point i was before\"most true pvpers live for the adrenaline rush of exciting combat and when they get a semi-fair fight or a canny prey they are happy. when they can't get it they try to compensate ganking, but for them it is a substitute, not the real thing. they are the same people that will love being hunted with a decent chance to outfox the hunters. most gankers love the true or imaginative tears of the target, so fair or exciting is less important, what they want is to do damage that they hope will make the target suffer. the \"ideal\" player would be a mix of the three aspects above. sadly as time pass we tend to polarize and as a reaction the other players tend to polarize faster. the \"carebears\" will try to avoid every nuisance, as a reaction the gankers will steep up work to make griefing more efficient, both of those action will remove the exciting pvp making \"fair play\" pvpers more angry and prone at attacking anything. the result is the current situation.it is a negative circle, where \"middle ground\" gameplay tend to disappear, but short of redoing the mind of most players or drastically reducing the server population so that having large swats of empty space will dampen the negative feedback i doubt it could be changed."
"it's exactly as venkul stated.i might a well just come out and say it...the various camps i've seen and analyzed in my maddness of a mind are pretty clear.1: high sec (the carebears)we got miners... industrialists... and mission runners.they complaint of pretty much 2 major areas here....war decs (the mechanics that no one could fix but needs but is horribly and stupidly broken beyond reason) used as a tool for greifing in their definition and nothing but.suicide ganks - the ability to fit a tempest and alpha strike pretty much a large number of ships before concord can show up... and get insurance for that ship... and be able to take the security hit or walk away without punishment. this sort of thing urks alot of people. yet being able to kill an npc player is a needed mechanic... as ccp clearly said. i'm starting to think its a mechanic that is heavily abused to the point of exploitation these days.2: pvp'ers - yar?these guys have a large number of complaints.... but its usually summed up in the following -low sec sucks - the ironic thing here is they did it to themselves. they caused the problem here... not ccp. they want low sec to be grander... better.in reality all they want are more targets to shoot out for lol's and their ever growing dumbass e-peens (be honest now... its all about your shiny killmails)as a result low sec gets ignored... avoided... and completely hands off in many corps/alliances cases.why? because while its got some good stuff... its all to often heavily exploited as an easy prey. so pvp'ers literally cry for more when they continue to dig their own grave.high sec wars - they often war-dec and station camp. pretty much sums it up.the war dec is a joke... all it is... is to bribe concord and gain the ability to shoot targets in high sec... conceptually its a good idea... but all you end up doing is wasting an entire week of your time (or more) sitting at a station or a stargate waiting for a target that will never come unless they have a backbone or the gumption to risk their ships. there will be smacktalk... there will be crying... don't fool yourselves... most of that smack/crying is from the pvp'ers who are bored. sad thing of it is.. they come here to avoid 0.0 warfare and complain of blobs.yet they use the very same blob tactic via nuet rr's and everything else.... pathetically ironic.the suicde gankers - they sit there and claim that they do this stuff for profit... most of the time... yes.... yet you get these yahoo's who defend this so called career with the reasoning of affecting the markets in minerals and ships (hulkageddon) of which is utter tripe.all they do is make the market worse by ramping up prices and demand for the very ships they lose.9 times out of 10 i always see the pvp forget the very tools he uses where made by a carebear... in most cases... the pvp'er himself/herself is that carebear (haha?).(cont.)"
"and lastly....0.0 - these guys have it really bad.you have to be a member of a coalition or a filthy rich bunch of guys to pull off a sov holding alliance. you end up paying rent to someone who pays rent who pays rent who pays rent....you have to protect your holdings so you can afford to pay rent.you have to build a larger fleet than your neighbors to avoid losing your space.you have to upgrade your i-hub and equipment to make your space more profitable... and pay rent.you get an afk cloaker in your system and your pilots stupidly forget that all they have to do is pay attention to their environment and have defenses on the ready if something happens... defenses get bored and go roaming off.you get steamrolled by a coalition with a bigger blob than you have...and end up fighting a unwinnable battle or by luck the server node crashes.note i never mention the \"fun\" in this mess.the people who have fun in this area are the ones who are larger.... or have a roam and carefree days or causing trouble much like low sec only without any rules to get in the way.now this is my viewpoint... my opinions may be wrong or they may coincide with yours.fact is.... holding a survey would never work because ccp would always get the whiners of each camp.this is why you don't see me making proposals... because by the time i weigh it out and simulate the arguments... it would be an big fat epic fail.only thing i can do is... well you already know that. :)i will say this much... ccp is screwing up... but it has nothing to do with their inability to listen to players.it's their stupid marketing department pushing quantity... over quality.this incarna ########## is going to be an utter epic fail in my opinion as all it is... is just second life for eve with vanity plastered all over it and asking you to pay money for something that will result in nothing but... vanity and not so much blowing stuff up.dust 514 is just an another halo... expectations will be over-inflated... sure it will have great graphics... but the ability to nuke the hell out of a planet with a maelstrom class battleship will never happen.i'm just scratching the surface.yes... i'm increasingly getting \"mad\" and \"bitter\"but eve is still a great game... so i push forward... hopping ccp will grow a brain....and they have with the fixing of rockets and such... but they can do much.... better than this."
"heh.unfortunately, i think you have quite a few points.thing is, i think much of it could be made better, not perfect but better, by rethinking the system.i'm a pretty rare breed myself i think. i don't much care for pvp. occasionally i'll go look for a fight, but that's like once a month at best. most of the time, i get my kicks out of making a profit while i play hide and go seek with the pirates. i absolutely do not make a bigger profit now than i did when i lived in high sec. i'm in low sec only because high sec bores me. that's not enough incentive for most people.i've also found ways to make a profit, that's hard for pirates to interrupt: pi and wormholes. they rarely find me in a position where i can be scanned down. of course, i need to haul my goods out of low sec to a trade hub, and at that point i'm open to attack. funny thing though, so far no one has hit one of my haulers. well, one, but it was empty - they shot it for the e-peen. it's no problem though, to risk a cheap hauler, and 2 days worth of goods. if 4 out of 5 shipments come though, i'm good. i don't mind feeding the pirates a portion of it if they catch me.but anyway... i think we could build a system that lets true carebears do their thing in relative peace, and gives the semi-carebears incentive to venture into low sec, and gives pirates targets and something to do without resorting to high sec ganking. biggest problem might be that the pirate population is too large to create enough targets for them and still let people make a profit.i dunno."
"unfortunately there's no \"system\" that could be made that would accommodate everyone.the fact is it's already there... but people insist on damaging the balance in favor of one of the camps while nerfing the others horrendously so.which is why i say ccp is listening... but they see a bigger picture more so than we do.sadly that bigger picture is at the mercy of profits... and advertising."
"those of us who frequent grav sites in wormholes have experienced the frustration. you're told that the max spawn time is 15 mins so you wait and wait- but then you realize after 15 mins have passed that someone must have already killed the sleepers at the site. what fun! my request is to reduce the max spawn time to just 5 mins to reduce the ambiguity and increase the fun! what's the point of sitting around waiting 15 mins? i guess the sleepers need time to powder their nose or some rubbish like that. at any rate, 15 minutes is way too long and i hope that the council can push this issue up to ccp.thanks for reading my post!"
"o7currently, there are eight assault frigates in game, seven of which can be used solo. the eighth is alone and afraid, unable to mount any tackle and be usable. this poor little guy, that needs our support, is the retribution.going along with his tough name, damage is the game with this little guy. he puts out impressive damage, can mount an ok tank, and looks good doing it. but still, all the other afs mock him, for you see, retribution is a gimp!poor, poor retribution was born with only a single mid slot which, we all know, must be fitted with an afterburner or mwd. frigates cannot survive without their speed. this leaves the poor little guy with no tackle, making him completely unusable and unloved for solo or even small gang work. look at the terrible things people say about retribution: \"sure he hits hard, but he's a total gimp with no tackle!\"\"hahahahahahaha, retribution? good joke, bro!\"\"i love every ship in the game, except retribution! he's stupid and i hate him, and i want him to die in a fire!\"so my friends, let us rally around and give retribution a hug! here is what we will ask of the devs;-remove one of retribution's high slots(the utility slot)-add a mid slot so retribution can mount a point or scramthis will;-allow the retribution to be a great solo ship, and-not tread on vengeances toes(different roles and weapon systems), and-make retribution feel like a real ship, not a mid-slot-lacking-gimp/monstrosity.please, leave a thumb for this topic, even if you don't fly afs. if anything, it will give you a new ship to encounter and add to you killmail pile!good hunting,-papa"
"needs some more cpu to fit anthing in it aswell."
"+1 for +1 mid slot.but not for the utility high.it would need to be +1 mid for -1 low imho."
"reason i steered away form this is two-fold; firstly, this would possible reduce flexibility, because that fifth can be used for more damage mods, speed mods, or tanking mods. secondly, i did not want it to have the same slot configuration as the wolf. no two afs share a slot layout, so i figured ccp would be more open to -1 high rather than low."
"loosing the high means no nos/neut. makes it a nice specialised laser boat, lots of damage lots of tank but can be screawed by cap warefare."
"i almost agree.the thing that stops me is that assault frigates as a whole are suffering from some fundamental problems and that switching the retribution's slots would still leave it with all the other problems associated with the assault frig range.as one part of a general revision, sure, but not as a standalone 'hey we gave you another midslot the retribution is awesome now right guys' measure."
"supported. dunno why it only has 1 mid slot, but that's a bit stupid, it needs one more.."
"the basic fact of eve pvp is that frigates need at least 2 medium slots to be effective. 1 for mwd or ab, 1 for scramble or disruptor.if a frigate does not have the minimum requirements, it is little more than a fancy toy, impractical for real pvp."
"did it occur to you yahoo's that the retribution frigate is not designed to be a solo pvp frigate?"
"i would not take a retribution as fleet support ship either.it's not just solo pvp, it's all pvp. if you want to be useful and not just **** around, get a real tackler."
"no thank you. why is it that every ship must be judged on the basis of solo pvp when that 'genre' is all but extinct?it does not need a second midslot, it would be nice sure, but it performs its function of damage + projection superbly without it.active tank relies on a nos in that utility high, remove it without compensating and you force it to buffer fit.removing a low-slot is also a crappy option as it impacts not only active, buffer but also gank fits.if you remove a high, then at least give it a capacitor approaching that of the slicer."
"true, afs do need a little love, but retribution right now needs a fix. it might even prod the devs into more af changes! *crosses fingers*designed or not, right now it is the only one, 1 out of 8, that completely lack soloability. personally, i fly afs solo because they are fast, light, not too expensive, have great gtfo, and are frankly a ton of fun to fly. each race has 2 soloable afs save for amarr, which only has one.i disagree. firstly, solo pvp is alive and well. secondly, even if flying in a gang, this little guy isn't a great choice for damage; take a hac or even a tech 1 cruiser. afs are for strong tackling and enough dps to usually kill their targets. they are not great gang ships in the first place.thirdly, the retri is the only ships in the game that lacks a second slot. that says something. that means the devs \"dun goofd'\" when designing it. sure, there's specialty ships and whatnot, but in terms of general combat ships, retribution is alone in his uni-mid-slottedness. as regards to your complaint about losing the high, i propose to you that it's pretty damn hard to fill all the slots anyways without using a fitting mod. personally, i leave the utility slot empty and go for the high damage pulses, ab, repairer and sinks with anp. fits without a mod, but barely. tank runs long enough for what it is, the heavy tank af is vengeance."
"there is not just a problem with the retribution. other afs have problems.would anyone really fly a wolf in 1v1? gang?what about the hawk?or enyo?"
"solo is exceedingly rare and usually a failed gank. calling it alive and well is a massive exaggeration.yadayada, bring cruiser/hac/bs/titan if you want dps .. and what good does that do in a frigate gang? retribution is the single most powerful gang af if you know what you are doing.retribution shares its one mid with the ship it is derived from, the coercer. they are almost the same with one being faster and tankier in exchange for tracking.all the carthum gun boats have painfully few midslots with near max high/low, tank and spank is what they do. retribution is just stuck with the one due to being a frigate and zero wasn't an option.so again, it would be nice but not needed. especially not by sacrificing active tank capability.."
"wow! i never knew that the retribution (a frigate) was a t2 version of a coercer (a destroyer). i was totally fooled by the punisher-like model.would you mind updating"
"totally supported."
"you could always use the vengeance... but then you'd complain about no laser cannons... vs rockets."
"well played, sir, you set me strait. i was unaware that the retribution was a tech ii destroyer. i am doin' it wrong, supposed to have an interdiction thingy! consider this; your argument is that losing your high will break the retributions tank, therefore rendering it less potency than it's current incarnation. fair enough. how about we go through with the change and you mount a cap booster instead of tackle?bam!now you've got an even better tank than before, are immune to nos/neuting, and you still don't have to sully your starling reputation by using something as underhanded as a point or scram.i have no problems with the vengeance. imo one of the best afs there is, if a little low on the dps side. still, it has a great tank, can run an mwd perma without tank running, and it's damage is still not bad. retribution has dps comparable to wolf but better range, can run an active tank, but has no tackle."
"a certain bot program requires modification of the eve client to work properly. this is needed so that the bot can recognize the status of modules (on/off ect). my proposal is that ccp should monitor the accounts that have such settings and if they are logged in for a inhumane amount of time they should be banned for botting. the way the settings must be adjusted has as only purpose botting. it makes no sense to adjust these settings because \"it looks better\". h-bot setting:widow mode +"
"confirming that i run with these exact settings on my laptop so your idea that 'the way the settings must be adjusted has as only purpose botting. it makes no sense to adjust these settings because \"it looks better\".' is most assuredly false.this isn't even a clever attempt to detect bots."
"h-bot user detected"
"hell no.they have no business reading my preferences... its an invasion of privacy.you people are getting a little too blind deaf dumb and stupid when it comes to tracking bots.your assuming they even use the client in the first place.ccp will never discuss... nor will they ever disclose this... because to do so would make the problem go out of control.asking ccp to poke and prod every account would cause some pretty stupid lawsuits to crop up over the fact they start behaving like a trojan and less a police task."
"this.ccp has made it known that they have a \"slim\" client (no graphics). you don't think the main macros are using this or something similar?"
"user submitting **** idea, getting it pointed out that it's **** and then still trying to stick to it, detected.seriously though, it really is a rubbish idea. and not only because of the legitimate use of the settings that ccp supply."
"i seriously doubt that the real botter even use the client. fact is, they can do it faster, more efficiently, with their own.there seems to be a misconception that botters are using a regular client and then they have a program setup to:move mouse to coordinate>click>press f1>press f2>etc...this is really a dated way to bot. the few that actually employ this method are relatively harmless compared to the streamlines, non-graphical clients used by ore farmers."
"most mmorpgs have a game mechanic to allow players to have a duel (which both have to accept) in a more or less fair and controlled way. currently in order to prevent concord from joining the fight you have to join a common fleet, which is risky because you dont know who else is part of it, and trust is kind of rare in eve.i propose a system where two players (or even better groups of players) can agree to have a duel. you loose if you dock, leave the system, change the ships, and of course when your ship goes booom. it is a draw if both are alive after a certain amount of time (like 5 minutes or 10 or so). concord will not react on the rivals shooting each other, but will react on any third-party in the normal way.as money is everything it should also be possible to bet money on the outcome.pro: it is a new kind of controlled pvp, and more pvp is normally considered a good thing new content for jita local: \"i bet 10m isk you cant beat my new frig fitting\". without the current risk of being scammed players can organize their own turnaments more easily a way to earn isk with pvp that does not rely on loot/salvagecons: trade hub systems could get even more crowded when large numbers of duellists hang out there. but you could just disallow duells in jita and all is fine, if its too bad."
"supported.---point of fact: shooting fleetmates is not (in and of itself) a concord-sanctioned activity. you can only shoot a fleetmates without concord intervention if some other condition applies (such as, they are in the same player corporation as you, they stole from you, you have kill rights on them, you are in null security space, or so on).that said, you shouldn't fleet with people you don't trust, anyway, because they can keep you locked in session-change timers by constantly moving you around in the fleet hierarchy."
"i only duel with children's trading cards because internet spaceships is serious business."
"great idea might actually simplify a few areas with this in mind"
"yep there isn't much reason to force us into typing out the name of the item just to see the contracts.i would also like this option available in the variations tab on item info, as well as adding check contract and market from items in the compare tool."
"who wants everything on the sexy sexy females (and some males) staying still while they jump up and down and run around? not me.so i have a very simple proposal. have jiggly physics for incarna avatars. it will seem more realistic and will be full of awesome. incarna will be much grander for this level of detail (along with the futanari thread thing), and will become the greatest walking in station expansion ever released!!"
"lol...someone told me to go make the thread and so i did...you just beat me to it. i also approve this message..."
"support jiggly moobs (man boobs)."
"we don't need an another damn \"second life\".this is eve online... i'd be more interested in flashy moving parts on my ship... who gives a flying crap about an avatar that would only interest most people for 10 seconds.if you want perversion that bad.... go use the internet.ccp could spend there time doing more constructive things... like fixing all of those nasty glitches."
"totally agreed. i'd much rather see ccp spend time on things that matter, rather than trying to fulfill some boyhood fantasies with vg characters..."
"haters (translated: asses) gonna hate (translated: poop).they'll have plenty of time to fix all those nasty nasty glitches after they get done with incarna (which it seems they're going to do anyway), and they have about 6 months. i doubt it's a huge request.besides, it adds immersion :p"
"why not, they already have nice swinging hair so other such things should also be introduced..."
"how old are you people?!"
"old enough to know that my maturity level does not hinge on a single thread about bouncing bountiful jibbly bits on a forum for an mmo, thank you."
"you could have fooled me."
"my only question: did we really need two threads about this?"
"this type of retort suggests who's really the immature one also, supporting lovely bouncies.edit: @ de'veldrin, no we need 3.it was originally an accident.however, i still support a third one. go make one, plz."
"a thumbs up wouldnt hurt, i havent seen one of these threads in assembly hall recently and the fact that there may be a few of them has an impact all its own. this is a good, if not urgent, idea. lets see if we can give it the support it needs to get it to the front portion of the backlog. if dust 514 takes off, hack attempts may become even more frequent than now. i dont think its mandatory in wow either.regards,windjammer"
"some people just can't get enough if ccp did it, soon they'd be calling for being allowed to log in all chars on the account at the same time. and the only arguments for the change are \"other mmos have it\", \"managing skills is so annoying\", and \"i would so like this change\".htfu"
"why?because they said so.we don't need a bloody alt-explosion.it's bad enough as it is already."
"no.you should be able to pause or start new skills on a character whilst logged into a different character on the same account though.you should also be able to switch between characters without exiting the client."
"people often suggest odd or unreasonable things. this recurring request, however, is rather shameless to boot. no, you're not getting 2 accounts for the price of one. please, stop asking for that. it's embarrassing."
"instead of making clones free, just streamline it by having only one clone at a price of a percentage of your sp. i agree that it is rare for someone to forget to keep an updated clone, but that's part of the death penalty; pay isk to keep an updated clone or lose sp. just remove the lose sp part and force the purchase of a clone. the net effect is the same as what we all do already, just less cumbersome."
"apparently, it's not enough for vets to have a total sp advantage over newbies, in experience, dps, tanking, ewar, and ship/mod options too. for some stupid reason, they think they're entitled to be pampered in eve. news flash: there's no veteran gravy train waiting for u when u're out of your newbie phase. u want something like that, go back to wow.but here's an idea since it never crossed your mind, even after all these years--don't get podded and don't train what u don't need if it's not even worth the cost to u. u knew full well what would happen if u were to train it that high. and most likely, no one forced u to either so it's your own fault."
"i can understand the view that this is another drop in the bucket for \"dumbing down eve\" so i suggest this alternative; instead of having to pay an exorbitant amount every time you die, make the current clone cost at 10x as much as now, but you don't need to pay again. you get that clone level permanently(your \"rookie clone\", the basic clone now given to you when you die.)this way, you still have to pay out the ass. if you get podded 10 times in you current clone, it's paid for itself. from here, you can pay the difference to a new clone level to upgrade.for instance:basic clone is 900k spyou want to upgrade to 2.5m spit costs 6 million isknow, if you get podded, you'll end up in your station and still have a 2.5m sp clone. when you want to upgrade to your 4m sp clone, you pay the difference in cost between the two.thoughts? flames? nerdrages?"
"i have a better idea.stop dying."
"something like this would also work. i just want to encourage more pvp, and allowing older players to do pvp in risky areas and cheap ships without the clone costs might cause people to get in more fun fights. implants already provide a consequence for pod loss."
"i propose you are able to fire the resurrection technician that forgets to upgrade your clone automatically. you may have to fire a few, but eventually you'll get one that remembers to do his job. might help to tip him a few millions now and then.an option to automate an oft repeated selection is not dumbing down anything.as for clone price, eh.. i do think the prices start getting out of whack when they go above 20mils, but other than that its not that big of a deal.of course ideally, if you want a cost assigned to death, i'd just say put a cost on the ship. podkills have only ever been the equivalent of teabagging anyway.. something you do to someone that is no threat at all to annoy them. quite a juvenile mechanic, all in all. so you lost a ship? thats x amount paid out in life insurance for the dead crew. not as much as clones, since it is more frequent, and could have some small multiplier for character age. it would definitely make flying cheap ships more enticing after you have tens of millions of sp."
"if you can't handle the threat of losing your sp's because of expenses... you should learn to play smarter.that makes you the dumbass here... not me.eve should be a game of challenges and risks... not \"hello kitty online\"when you pvp... you should put your char's sp's on the line with the rest of us.making it \"free\" would make the whole cloning business pointless.top that off with the fact that larger sp clones while expensive... wouldn't take much to fund with just a bit of ratting... or some missioning.if your that hard-pressed for isk... your seriously screwing up. (15 million? please... i make that in a single level 4 and then some... cry me a damn river)pvp should never be free.... or very cheap... it should require effort... and hard work.practice... and experience makes it cheaper... but that should be earned... not given."
"prices are about right for the lower tiers, it does get ridiculously expensive at the high-end. a single lost pod costs several days of subscription (1mo@350m), it is ok for t3 which at least offers some bling while losing days but a random smartbomb?- clone upgrade upon moving to higher tier should recoup some/all of previous installment.- if a bunch of bears want to try to show teeth and can't get a jumpclone, perhaps adjusting jc requirements is a better path or even a complimentary jc courtesy of one of the militias?- if a person is \"forgetful\" then hopefully he will learn his lesson, at least you get a second chance whereas forgetting your seatbelt in the real world rarely offers that luxury.no to removal. yes to higher tier adjustment."
"i'm open to higher tiered adjustments as highlighted... but i cannot deny the fact that higher sp counts should indicate more experience and practice in the art of affording expensive toys...carebears who never pvp before with that kind of level of sp would be pretty bloody rich enough to afford a few screw ups... even should have jc's by then... of which are easy to get thanks to a few jc corps."
"this, really."
"i always fit +4's for my 2 learning attributes. i have 100 mil sp so a clone cost 20m. my favourite ship to fly is the minmatar dictor, the sabre. everytime i lose a clone it cost 70 mil. if clone costs wernt so expensive i would be encouraged to go out in small ships more and engage more."
"yes they should.because they understand the risks and should know better.i say remove medical clones alltogether.and make pods invulnerable to a.o.e. disruption and weapons.you lose a pod its your own fault and you pay the price in sp."
"not supported. i'd like the costs to be higher tbh"
"i support a revisit of the higher-tier clone costs."
"sure, as long as the animation doesn't make the session change take longer than it must.agreeing with a dav proposal"
"first of all, i strongly support this, second...the blizzard tokens are from a company called vasco data security, not rsa, rsa (the company) are encryption specialists, vasco are authentication, just to make it easier if you're looking for more information. either companies tokens would be better than none, but only if optional*edit - since preview deselects the support checkbox*"
"we've been spotted! run!"
"they should find and ban all bots, im sure some people bott for personal isk. not just to sell for irl money"
"yea but if your hunting you also have to scan down everyone and everything in the wormhole. meaning combat probes will be on d-scan.in nullsec its warp to asteriodbelt and kill the miner who never know your sb was in local"
"i think it would be advantageous for more certifications to be added. like to reverse engineer, build t3 stuff, and other productions. the last update was for pi, but before that i have no clue when any changes were made. there's a bunch of small skill sets that could be added, which help new players map out career paths."
"no one really saw the point of certificates when they were released, but they're here now so i agree. i'm seeing a pattern of features being introduced but left out in the dark afterward, for instance when was the last update to factional warfare? and cosmos missions have been left to rot since they arrived, same with bounty hunting and smuggling and we haven't heard a peep on t3, not to mention pos's which everyone would like to be updated in one way or another./rant"
"they should at least remove clickfests like mining and pi so there would be no pressing need for mining bots or pi bots. :f whole mining and pi mechanics can be too easily exploited if you can just leave your client on and clickityclick. in case of mining it just doesn't require enough effort it would be much more fun to find a rich asteroid and mine it out fast than just wait x hours.in pi case it just doesn't make sense you need to clickityclick constantly to create \"passive\" income. if you need to click it is not passive income."
"not that i've ever flown a supercap, but the requirement to leave scs floating in space, have a shared sc pilot, or have a dedicated valet alt so that an alliance assets can be safe while unused is, imho, poor game design and yet another example of ccp ignoring low hanging fruit.i've never understood why a docking module for poses hasn't been introduced. just like a pos shield or secured container, if you know the password for the docking module, you can unanchor, board & fly anything anchored to it. if you don't, you can't. the ui doesn't need to be anything spectacular. hell, if it was, it'd look out of place with the rest of the pos ui."
"they are meant to be stolen."
"there also has to be a way to get someone land into the bubble.maybe!avoiding everything sounds pretty good plan at start but when you try to catch something it suddenly doesn't feel alright."
"just a quick headsup - the current diabolical plan is to release the minutes in 3 chunks, m/w/f. this is being done both the provide a bit of extra time to finish a couple of segments, as well as to group related items so that discussions of them won't get lost in the crowd."
"guys in big alliances just want cheap jump bridge machine. but then they already have titans and they complain blackops are useless.change blackops into small gang vessels with decent fitting for damage and tank with sensible sensor strenght so someone would actually use these ships more often. i personally think blackops were balanced to be used by people who have no actual need for them at first place. plzx. :/"
"bump"
"well thought idea thats alot better then what we have now. it'll also make the game better at lorewise."
"i would love it if there was a punch like effect to the warp in eve. i've seen several variations and they all look awesome."
"faster acceleration/deacceleration? do want."
"you will never see this in game because 1) it looks cool2) the only effect changes ccp makes is to put the generic wormhole phase in / phase out effect on everything3) they can't even fix the rubbish cyno effect after 3 years so why would they put in something like this"
"i support this endeavor. the current warp effect is very obviously from 2001. needs an update badly."
"after, what is it 2 years? of complaints about the unfinished expansion that was hyped from the roottops, bought in a lot of new subscribers, then was abandon......i'd like to hear wtf ccp has to say for themselves.a devblog \"why we don't want to fix fw\" would be good."
"no"
"no.in the end, i've never seen a game use it in a way that's agreeable."
"what happened to the typography expert hired 2 years ago?"
"bigger fonts! :d"
"supported"
"i support this motion, boobs are very important."
"i support this only on the condition that crotches also twitch."
"i support this, only on the ground that if ccp has any plans at all of using carbon as a selling point, it should replicate fat jiggle; not just with breasts, but with all deposits of fat."
"/facepalmyou know, i wanted to smack the living daylights out of the op for this thread... but... unfortunately... he's right.war on droop!!!!"
"lmao"
"baring the fact that all of incarn is a wast of dev time and resoures they mite as well make the best part of it look good."
"i personly think incaran was a total waist of devlement time and resoures for eve. but if there going to force it on us anyways. then i totaly support the war on boob droopage!"
"loli agree!"
"i like the realism aspect of this game. it's just not right for boobs to be made of bone. same goes for other parts of the body that are soft, such as thighs, belly, muscles, cheeks, etc. i haven't seen the models but i hope they move realistically, not just look like wax sculptures.it would be so much easier to make games look realistic if we were anthropods. but alas, we are vertebrates."
"1.0"
"yes i know the hybrid topic has been beat to death (and back again) but luckily for all you boys and girls this isn't about hybrids, this is about their main platforms.it's no secret that gallente ships are outperformed by their racial counterparts in almost any match up. it could be recons, bcs, bs, even cruisers; gallente are bested in almost any match up. here are a few proposals to help balance them and make them more effective in small gang and maybe even fleet warfare so that we're not relegated to drakes online.1) increase the dampener bonus on celestis hulls (t1 plus the recon ships) from 5% per level to 10% per level. the numbers are themselves are less important than the fact that gallente ewar ships need a buff. it's ridiculous that the only way to effectly dampen a target is with 3 damps from a ship designed specifically to field that ewar. buffing these hulls prevents the return to rsds on every goddamn setup known to man, but allows more options for dealing with both ecm and nano***gotry alike. and the fact that the optimal only extends to 45km (with max skills) keeps it from being too op.2) change the penalties on armor rigs. gallente ships are already slow, but to force them to further gimp themselves by fitting trimarks if they want any sort of usable tank is just completely unfair and bad design. maybe an additional agility penalty on the armor rigs across the board would be acceptable, but honestly, forcing armor ships designed to fight at close range to kill their max speed (and even agility) even further is just cruel. ideally we could make the penalty less shields, or something that doesn't have anything to do with speed, but anything is better than the current situation. and this would be great for other races too, as we'd see a lot less bastardized shield tanked hurricanes, and a little more variety in gang setups.3) boost the base speed on gallente ships. this is the big one. kiting is just way too easy in this game. there's a reason in a lot of fantasy games ranged chars are forced to fire while stationary (it's so the melee units can catch up). the fact that the race with the shortest range, is not the fastest is just silly. i mean think about it, pretend you're a game designer coming up with a new game and you try to pitch the idea of having a slow melee unit, trying to catch a ranged unit that can fire while moving and is faster than the melee unit to begin with. it's an impossible situation. even if you get a warp in, your target is already moving 1-2km/s, add another 6-7 sec (that's being generous) for lock time, plus another second for module lag, as well as the time it takes you to get up to speed against a ship that is already faster than you, and it's damn near impossible to get web/scram on a nanoed target. and that's assuming that you literally land on top of him. and if anyone comes in here with that bs about \"matar have to be the fastest cause that's the way it is\" should just not bother posting. it's the height of stupidity to keep an entire race of combat ships gimped because of some stupid fluff or grandfathered reasoning.4) add more pg to the ships or lower hybrid fitting requirements. it is almost impossible to fit a decent tank on a gallente ship, even with ions, which means they have yet another disadvantage added to the extensive list of existing ones. and why are 200mm rails so much more pg heavy than dual 150mms? it's so far and away from the jump between electrons and ions that it doesn't make a lick of sense.5) lastly, change the rep bonus or alter armor reps somehow. boosting the rep bonus would make too many op wtfpwn boats, but trying to fit a dual repper setup with anything besides the very lowest class of guns is impossible without totally gimping yourself. perhaps lowering the pg requirement for armor reppers and reducing their cap usage would help improve the setups.these changes are needed as well as hybrid fixes, but both need fixing (tracking esp)."
"supported but we need to come up with fixs for caldire gun ships too. there even slower then gallent and not a one of them get a tracking bounse."
"boost gallente!"
"supported.wallente ships need fixhybrids need to be fix"
"all gallente needs fixing, as will as the majority (or all?) of caldari hybrid boats."
"damps used to be uber... now their overnerfed ... a boost to the hull bonus would be good, exact numbers would have to be done through play testing.i agree speed wrecks the setups not to sure what would be better, as you posted agility would be worth a go dosen't have to be faster then mim just ... faster, the deimos for example is slower then the zealot wtf yeap, this would fix alot of the issues with the hullsarmour rep bonus applies to recieved rr aswell = fixed. if you leave it as local only its aways going to be useless in either a buffer fit or asoon as theirs more then 2 guys shooting at you"
"any change is welcome and much needed!"
"you sir hit the nail on the head!1) imho it should be even 15% on the razu and the lach tho damps should not be able to damp lower then 10km but one damp should be able to make one ships have said 10km lock range2)better idea make the rigging skill reduce 20% per level making the skill more useful and when skilled to 5 removing the penalty altogether(that goes for all rigging skills and rigs)3) gallente ships should be the the fastest race's ships in game they should not be able to be kited by their minmatar counterpart except by specialized ships (vaga, huggin, rapier etc)4)both needs to be done lower blaster and rail pg and increase the base pg/cpu on the ships a brutix needs to be able to fit a rack of ions a med cap booster a mwd and dual rep ffs same goes for the hyperion5) change it to a 5% resist bonus and you got a deal that would make those ships so much more useful and keep em able to use dual or even triple mar setups (triple hype only)and despite all that blasters and rails still need a buff in damage and tacking (25% in both i say! yes it would op them in close range fight but seriously! every weapon should stand out in its niche! also for med blasters with have a optimal of about 5km it is not too much asked to have them omgwtfspwn in that area )"
"at first i was going to say that you should post in one of those topics taht already exist.. we do indeed need to consolidate, i don't care who'se post it is. 2,3,4 i simply could not agree more. armor rigs and speed. please. guns need fixing as well, for crist sake."
"1.0"
"gallente ships aren't underpowered. they're just not the top pvp race. that being said, there's plenty good gallente pvp ships such as the incursus, myrmidon, megathron, and nyx to name a few.the reason everyone flies drakes is because drakes are overpowered. i fly a drake and have to agree, drakes are overpowered. my combat-oriented skills are so puny that i have difficulty soloing level 3 missions no matter what i fly in, unless it's a drake. i can solo some level 4 missions in a drake. drake is the only ship i have a chance of defeating another player's ship in. i haven't yet, but i've come close.other battlecruisers aren't underpowered at all, in fact they're great all-around ships that don't do any one thing too well. drakes, on the other hand, can tank better than most battleships while maintaining the mobility and signature radius of a battlecruiser. if you ask me, it should only have this potential if its damage were rather pitiful. my damage in a drake is pitiful, but i've seen plenty of drakes that can really put out some dps. drakes should have shield recharge time nerfed."
"with the current system, you must pay $15 per month for each character you wish to be training skills. the drawback to this is that in order for someone to train 2 characters at once, those characters must be on separate accounts. both accounts must be active in order for even one character to be used at a time.i propose that ccp might allow players to spend an extra $15 on their account in order to be allowed to train a second character for a month, or $30 extra to train both other characters. it would be nice to be able to train an alt to do things we don't want to put on our main skill queue without stopping the main one either. then every once in a while it can be useful to switch to the other character to make use of that character's unique skillset."
"why would you pay the same price as having a second account, but with less functions? but in a way, i agree with you somehow."
"the main advantage is that i could pay for only one month of training, and then keep using the trained character later without having to pay to keep the character active unless i want to keep training skills."
"the plus side is you can have a trader alt on the same account training for about 60 days then stop training, but still play with himnot everyone can run 2 accounts at the same time, so having 2 accounts is redundant if they only want 1 alt."
"1.0"
"(tl;dr - why the hell didn't they use eve gate and send/receive feeds with facebook?!?)i really don't get it. eve gate was this big deal about \"social networking\" they put together and it wasn't used for this. facebook allows feeds so even a \"hack job\" to parse results from facebook should have worked and taken little development time to implement.no concerns about using facebook, a good use for the effort invested in creating eve gate and marcom gets a new set of toys to play with plus gets to hype eve gate if they so choose. same end-results but more participation from the user community -and- the ability to use the same mechanism to pipe things to and from facebook/eve gate in the future.it seems to be a lame decision by the marketing group and a missed opportunity."
"do you realy care of some **** social network where you have hundreds of \"cyber frineds\" that will never be there for you? if you are realy \"social\" person, then you go out and meet people irl. not in that **** just good enough to change sexual adresses."
"ummm.you seem to be against having to use facebook. this thread is a proposal protesting the use of facebook in voting for art intended for eve.how about a thumbs up supporting the proposal? there's a little check box for that when you post.regards,windjammer"
"so who's gonna stop the folks who decide to create >9k fake facebook accounts to influence the results? with eve-gate ccp has some measure of control there.and you can believe me when i say that i know some folks that have multiple accounts so they can cheat at... farmville."
"i dont think this causes ccp any concern. the primary purpose of arranging the voting to be done exclusively on facebook is to market their game to people who arent playing it. of course, if people are creating fake facebook accounts to vote, it defeats the marketing purpose.so, angering current customers, effectively barring a section of the eve populace from voting, opening up voting to non-eve people and now a point is made which completely voids any semblance of validity the voting might have had at all. this was supposed to have been a fun contest. it appears to be failing on multiple levels.regards,windjammer"
"i will never use facebook."
"i don't just not like facebook. i have experience with it, and i can say firsthand that there are few places on the internet more annoying or confusing than that website. don't use myspace either, that one is arguably slightly worse.i wish i could give this more thumbs up, but i guess one will have to do."
"there needs to be adjustments to the current t2 production and/or moons to address the current technetium market, i'm not trying to bash the nc in anyway. i personally think cutting the r64's value some was a great idea, but putting all the value of moons into one type that is greatly located in one area of the game was not beneficial to 0.0, pvp or politics. money plays a huge in wars. if ccp wants to increase pvp, wars and over all motion of empires in 0.0 to keep the game from getting stagnant then money high value passive incomes can not be so confined to select areas of eve where alliances or coalitions can take control and monopolize them.i think a great method of spreading the value of moons would be to change t2 production to use moon materials for each race from moons in their respected areas. the idea would make all regions relatively equal in value for moons. large alliances and coalitions could greatly impact the market as they do now by manipulating t2 materials but only for one race. this also allows ccp to keep eve realistic in several ways. a race would develop it's technology from the resources around it after all, if each race is unique why not have the raw resources to make their technologies unique?another option which i don't believe would be as good is to redistribute all moons in eve to be more evenly spread out. major issues arise addressing what happens to moon mining towers that are on moons, and the major database changes would be unneeded pain. the issue of how realistic it would be if moons were not unique to areas of space, which honestly they would be specially over such a massive expanse."
"or you could just let moon mining happen in wormhole's. there total lawless wtf is going on there anyways? who the f is stoping moonmining in wormhole space? no one just ccp."
"i like the idea of moon mining in wh space,..... firstly it does not add to a wh being self sufficient,... taking ice out of them took that possability away all by itself.and speaking of wh being self sufficient personally ,.. i would like that,.... lets put ice in them too,.. you stil lwould have to defend them fro mroving gangs ,... miners would stil lbe at risk durrign the mining of that fuel,...why make it so that you have to take a monthly armed escourt trip into low sec,...but as i said i support moon mining in wh space."
"the result would be stronger pvp groups holding the empire static wh's and keeping them in control. that would push out smaller groups who like to live in them but couldn't deal with the difficult of wh's above class 3. your basically going to cause a restriction in wh's that clenches null sec now."
"hoping more people see this idea"
"the proposal itself is not good. no idiot wil leven out a ship on the same grid as the pos. might as well selfdistruct. would be cooler if you had to position you ship between the pod and the moon- in the way of the tarctor beam- and leech off the resources that pos pulls from the moon. then they would hve to go after you, and the tractor beam would also prevent anyone from cloacking withing x km of it."
"i am still puzzled, why is it that gallente ships are so inferior> is it slot layouts? what is it, slot layout, underpowered capacitor?kronos vs vargurvargur is faster and more maneuverablevargur has 3x more range with autocanons then kronos does with blastersvargur can fit ~35% more tankdrone capacity is equal (why???)kronos does ~60 more dps. the 60 extra dps really compensates for all of the drawbackslistd above. and when you compare hyperion and maelstrom, it's even worse."
"not exactly.the problem is fivefold:- gallente ships are [mostly] geared for armor tanking. however, plates and armor rigs slow ships down.- the gallente's main weapon system, blasters, requires that a ship be able to get in range (sub 10km) quickly.the above 2 problems lead people to ignore certain \"built-in bonuses\" and shield buffer ships like the brutix, myrmidon, and hyperion in order to has sufficient speed to close range.... which leads to another problem:- blasters have trouble tracking things of the same class within their optimal range, effectively negating any \"paper dps\" advantage they have over other weapon systems. to compensate, gallente ships usually have to fit a web or two to slow things down enough... but this is becomes a problem when the ship has been shield tanked to get into range.edit: added some stuffcombined with the first 2 points, gallente ships are supposedly the \"active tanking race,\" intended to use armor reppers to their fullest potential. however, this leads to 2 more problems: - armor reppers use capacitor... capacitor that is needed to feed cap hungry guns (not as cap hungry as lasers, but still) and the almost mandatory microwarpdrive they need to close range for their very short range weaponry. to compensate for this, people fit cap boosters... but then this leads to another problem...- armor reppers eat up powergrid... powergrid that is needed to fit very powergrid hungry weapons as well as the almost mandatory microwarpdrive. plus (to continue from the last point), to active tank sufficiently well one needs to fit a cap booster mod (or two) which also eats up a lot of powergrid. this leaves some active tanked gallente ships either very tightly fit or sacrificing some major aspect of their fit (examples: give up the mwd for an ab, then you move slow and can't close range quickly... give up high end guns for smaller versions but then you can't do the \"facemelting dps\" needed to compensate for having to close distance, etc.)"
"weren't gallente ships all the rage in p/vp three years ago? i remember a time where people said unanimously \"gallente is eve's easy mode\""
"so tldr.. we didn't even get the value of fraction of an implant..and the real real advantage that other playes were given was the stacked nature of the implants that allow significantly higher training speeds in less common primary skills for the less than year period needed.its not the other half of the .5 that is the real issue.the issue is the stacking... getting an remap stacked means that you can make a plan where you train something for less than 6 months before switching...extremely valuable for something like a pvp player moving to a capital ship and needing 3 + months of drones (and 4+ without remapping specifically).that is not an unusual situation at all (there are others like getting up to mega corp managment or super wcommand etc where charisma would be the key for a few months)over 3 or 4 months you can easily gain 1 million more sp during that short peirod if you have stacked remaps..that they gave out so liberally to maybe 60% plus of characters.also, the fraction of a remap are really far less than the fraction they imply.oviously if you just remapped you wouldn't want to remap again for at least a few months... but most of us think ahead peopel make a plan to expire exactly when the next remap was due.. my .3 of a remap is worth nothing because i need the current attributes to finish up some stuff before i map the opposite way.remapping means planning ahead... a suprise shortening does no good unless you planned poorly.no if they gave something like a .5 of a remap that meant i could remap again in 6 months ? (lol ok im warping the concept irreperably) the point is if we had known 8 months ago that we would get a fraction of a remap perhaps it would be worth that whole fraction if we had the time to plan ahead.so tldr.. we didn't even get the value of fraction of an implant..and the real real advantage that other playes were given was the stacked nature of the implants that allow significantly higher training speeds in less common primary skills for the less than year period needed."
"i think those who got their timer reset should have had the same amount of time remaining till their next remap. if this is not the case, then i am in support. i'm sure there were some who were an inch away from getting their remap and got screwed over by getting it just a few days sooner. that doesn't really count as an extra."
"something needs to be done and this looks as good as anything alse i have seen."
"this is painful. rip, why do you want to change sig resolution instead of tracking? you must think that doing this will produce a different in-game effect?tell me what happens in the following situation. how much damage (as a percentage of the eft maximum) is done?transversal is zero. a turret of signature resolution 400 m fires at a target of signature radius 40 m sitting at its optimal range."
"snap i did not think of it like that. i was wanting to use the sig_res as a way to inc tracking for caldire ships with out making the guns overly fast on galante ships with tracking bounces.though mybe it's still a good change on rails they need a damg inc as well and a tracking inc. for caldire gunboats. mybe a 10% damg inc on rails and lead adds a 20% tracking inc? edit:the problem is the two diffent race's ships make them near impossable to balance realy. ether need to remove hybirds and hand gallent projectiles and caldire lazers or give hybirds to gallent and make a 4th gunnery system for caldire."
"once you realize caldari gunships are mainly rail focused while gallente are mainly blaster focused it really isnt that difficult."
"by rail focused you mean can't fit them due to pg and got no tracking and usually no damage bonus greatly complementing a weapon system with great range, low damage and poor tracking?and by blaster focused you mean slow, armor-tanked ships, ideal for use with shortest-range weapons?"
"ya i loled at this too mybe it's the fact you get better usage out of the gun bc ferox with artilery that makes them rail focused?or mybe it's the fact you get usage out of ac's on the myradon? that makes them blaster focused?"
"as long as caldari railboats have the range to use faction ammo, they'll have far better tracking than their gallente counterparts (and any other turret using t2 long-range ammo). remember, range bonuses are damage bonuses.i suspect that fiddling with rail range will offer a more targeted boost to the caldari railboats than just a straight damage boost. looking at rokh and eagle pg will also help. of course, some more damage may also be needed, but i'd start with looking at the range myself. i haven't run any numbers on this."
"ya becouse we all know that caldire boats are so fast and agile that you can keep range right?i also take it you have not used beams on a apoc or artilary on a mel? the better sniping dps is going to lazer's and the better alph to artilary'sare hybirds useable ya any weapon system is useable with a big blob.and everyone can use fraction ammo."
"you what? come on man, think before you post. we're talking about rails, hence sniping. ship speed is of little consequence for snipers, especially on the bs scale. and caldari ships have good agility. alpha is artillery's theme, it's no bloody surprise that it's more than rails. and of course beams have more damage, they have less range. and no, not everyone can use faction ammo, because they don't have the range. look, if you're to propose the boost that rails need, you need to have a basic understanding of the weapons. after seeing your utter confusion about tracking i have zero confidence in your ability to do so now.stop whinging and try to propose a coherent idea for boosting rails backed up by specific fits and comparisons. more tracking on rails isn't really necessary, particularly not in the half-baked sig resolution fashion that you came up with originally. the fundamental problem is damage at range, which can be addressed via increased raw damage or increased range."
"i posted yet another mathimatical proof of the direct relation between tracking and signature resolution... but after considering your apparent inability to read numbers and/or do math at all, i've given up and deleted it."
"yea, now that you mention it the ferox does have this bonus to projectile optimal range... the myrm does not have any turret bonuses, so it can fit whatever it wants.if you are looking for blaster focused platforms, i suggest you take a close look at deimos or astarte...2/10 for trolling attempt though."
"you don't need to be defensive. no justification is necessary, the fact that it can be done is enough in itself and it's all that matters. the problem is that it destroys the market for deadspace mods. this is caused by too many people doing it. which is an indication that it's too much of an easy money. the economy is distorted whenever someone finds backdoor to get rich quick, disproportionally to amount of work/risk. to put market back into balance and preserve this sector of the economy, measures must be taken so that fewer people does it. the proposed mechanics does just this."
"translation: u actually want it to stop completely because as long as ppl continue to be stupid, they can be punished for it. u wanna be stupid and be rewarded for it, go back to wow. in fact, do u even have any proof that it's destroying the deadspace mod market instead of just throwing a random assumption out there? did u ever think that maybe ppl don't want to spend billions, only to spend months just to earn back their investment (even without being ganked) instead of spending it on pvp? and with your logic, suicide ganking is hardly a problem at all compared to scamming.this just boils down to pure blatant risk-averse whining without a single ounce of intelligence or thought behind it."
"fully support this.plus, it'll increase the fighting that goes on in high-sec. i'll be able to group up with some people and take some gankers down. what's not to love?the only people against this are gankers."
"why not have this tied to sec status and faction standing and have concord or faction navies attack you directly as soon as sec status drops too low? you could make it so higher security space requires a higher sec status to enter.holy **** this has already been implemented."
"the whole point of this is to not stop it completely, but adding a degree of risk so that not everyone and their mother is doing it. stopping it would've been easy, they can just destroy all mods on ship destruction, disable highsec targeting, etc. that's not the way to go. as for proof, it's in the market itself. search contracts, compare current prices and backlog amount, to the past. he's not going to compile a spreadsheet for you. it all boils down to you wanting to farm the loophole for big easy risk-free money regardless of the damaging effect it has on eve economy and player base as a whole."
"greetings, all. i'm 10 seconds old, and will be biomassed shortly. i wish to bring up a topic that's been gone over already, ad nauseum (and i'm too lazy to necro it).the dramiel!omg, wtf?i've been in this game since castor, and i've seen my fair share of fotm ships come and go, but this little devil beats them all. there's just no way to catch it, and the little blighter does insane damage for an untackleable speedboat.it needs to be brought in line with other pirate faction frigates (and, for that matter, the cynnabal in accordance with other pirate cruisers).the major fault is not it's damage or tank or whatever... it's all the speed. nothing in the game has been more modified than speed, and even the vast speed changes when coupled with web changes did not fix things much at all.no other vessel in the game can go 8k/s now.. except the dramiel. no frigate that can even come close to that speed can come anywhere close to the damage output it enjoys. coupled together they're an iwin button bar none.when webbed they just warp. anything that can scram them (and currently only the lach/arazu can try, but by the time they lock a dram pilot is 70km beyond range) dies near instantly to their omfgpwn! damage output (for a frigate). currently the only possible way to catch one is with no less than two ships, and even that's pretty much a non-possibility. only the very careless ones get caught, or a very, very lucky shot from a sniper ship can bring one down.ccp has always in the past balanced a ship's speed to it's damage output or cloak ability. you can either have speed, or cloak, but almost always sacrifice dps to do so. bombers are tissue boxes and slow and are for the most part unable to put dps on small targets (save limited use bombs).proposal: simple, bring dramiel top speed down in the range of interceptors or other fast frigates. no need to change anything else. keep them zippy for their class, but not so much it stomps t2 ships into the dirt. keep their dps up so they're still viable anti-tackle. just make them capable of being caught by those tacklers.or keep them stupid fast like they are and reduce their damage. there must be trade offs for speed, and the dramiel (and cynnabal) simply currently lack them. the machariel, on the other hand, is almost identical to every other pirate faction bs as far as damage output, tank, and speed.nothing is more annoying to anyone than seeing dramiels all over the place like flies... not when there are so very, very many ships that are being rendered trashbin tossoffs as a result.(oh, and yes, i fly them. i've got 62 left from the days when they were dirt cheap. i'm quite familiar with their capabilities and weaknesses - there are too few counters to speed, which ccp has been forced to adjust many times in the past, and need to once again).okay, it's off to the biomass bin with me. flame on (i won't be here to care)."
"obligatory thumb, of course."
"the problem with the dramiel is, that it's an assault frigate with interceptor like speed/agility.all other frigates are either assault frigates or interceptors so the dramiel naturally does dominate.make it either a faction interceptor or a faction assault frigate."
"dramiel is an elite ship of frigate class. and eve needs more elite ships and not only on supercapitol level.the only problem with dramiel is that it is too cheap for the power it provides. the true cost should be around 150 milbtw, i managed to kill 5 dramiels within 1 week (1 at a time) so it's not like it can't be done"
"badgers are overpowered"
"uhm, so every other pirate faction bs does outrun cruisers easily?you obviously have no clue what you are talking about, the one angel ship that is op is the machariel.but hey, it costs a billion isk, thats fine then?"
"gimp your drone skils, take drone mods and this will be enough ;)"
"because of dramiel."
"dramiel can be fended off easily by any semi-decent droneboat. but killing it is very difficult unles you have a web-bonused ship or arazu/lach on it. it's a damn simple calculation:8 m/s speed24km disruptor rangeyou have to kill it in under three seconds. so, to kill it you have to do one of the following:outmatch the dramiel pilot in skill quite a lotsnipe it off (and if the dramiel pilot is sitting ith 0 transversal in range of a sniper he is an idiot)catch a pilot afkgank it with a bunch of droneboats, arazus and huggins. and a serpentish ship with 90% web is preferable. and yeah, it is stupidly fast. i have noproblem with it being uncatchable if it;s dage output is near harmless or it has weak tank. but it has more effective hp and dps then most af\"s and some bad cruisers around. that's just silly."
"a faction frigate that costs four times as much as a t2 should be a lot better than a t2.not supported."
"other pirate frigates don't cost this much. it only cost this much because it's so good. supply and demand. and for something this good, it should cost more, btw."
"i agree with goose99.the dramiel should not be nerfed, but its price should be increased. as it is arguably the most popular faction frigate and clearly the most discussed, it should cost more than other faction frigates."
"wtb rifter with 100% resists - 250b (its fair cause i paid a lot for it)"
"screw this. cost has nothing to do with it. the dramiel is overrated, but it also is overpowered, even if it's only a little bit. actually, screw that, it's not overpowered, all it's got is speed, and all it's good for is running away. i have never been killed by a solo dramiel. guess why.maybe get rid of the drone bay or decrease the speed a little bit, but you definately need to buff the other faction frigs. not just the cruor and succubus and worm, but the af as well (retribution, definately), eaf (sentinal and kitsune are decent), and t1 frigs (breacher, inquisitor, atron, condor, slasher ect)."
"flip side:afterburners can be used to \"kick\" a ship into warp as well. we all know the trick right? start the ab, initiate the warp - your slow ship reaches about 40% of it's top speed and then the afterburner stops - bang, you are now doing 90% of your top speed - and you are kicked into immediate warp.it's a shame that the afterburner skill makes this less of an option, by increasing the duration timer. i'd much prefer the cap reduction over the duration, as it preserves this mechanic as well.there's more reasons to support this besides just the overheating thing."
"afterburner skill should reduce mass penalty by 15% per level."
"nice one.. want."
"simple yet filling. i want more."
"and while your at it remove tactical shield manipulation which does actually nerf shields"
"or just change it to something else, like longer hardener duration."
"this. not supported.seriously, being able to constantly heat is vital to ab-only frigates. your proposal would cause serious damage to a whole fitting style."
"i'm completely in favor of mini-caps, but it needs a lot more work."
"how about put a que on the online offlining anchor and unachor for the posses.no wonder people left this game."
"98% of persons i polled believe that when you give the \"stop ship\" command either by right click or cntrl+space it should disengage the mwd / ab modules. the other 2% either didn't understand the question or refused to answer. why would your prop mods continue cycling if you have order a halt? where does the thrust go? is there any benefit to continue to have them running after full stop has been given? i asked a game insider these questions and he just looked at me sheepishly, almost like he was embarrassed to answer, smiled slightly and asked if i had any other questions. really does it make any sense to anyone that they don't cycle off? i don't mind when i bomb someone :d but for myself, i'd prefer the prop mods to stop cycling. that is all"
"makes perfect sense."
"good plan."
"yeah like no one would activate mwd while sitting still.think again."
"going to disagree with this.until there's keyboard shortcuts for 33%, 50%, 66% and full speed, stopping the ship and then double-clicking in space very fast is the best way to simulate half speed without the huge risk that moving the mouse to the hud is. when manually flying an interceptor, the mouse is way too busy to do anything else than keeping on double-clicking in space, so there's no time to go and click on the hud to slow the ship down and the ctrl-space+double-click in space trick is still the best way to simulate a slower speed.i would support this if there were speed shortcuts ala tie fighter (you know, that game from the mid 90's, seriously, why is this not implemented in eve yet)."
"yeah, i hate sitting stopped at a gate camp with my mwd cycling and killing all of my cap."
"/supportedit's a waste of capacitor for a mwd/ab to be on when you're not using it."
"not spported.alternate solution:ab/mwd consumes the portion of capacitor proportional to the speed you are going at, or, yet better, the proportion of thrust that is being used."
"i agree. the max speed your ship is currently trying to obtain should determine the amount of capacitor drain from the module. when full stop is called, it should stop draining capacitor.alternatively, there could be a menu toggle that would turn on or off the feature proposed by the op."
"it would be great, but sadly...that would only work if cap drain was constant which won't happen. in a 15 seconds cycle, it would either need to track and register every single speed changes and accel/decel every few frames for the duration of the cycle or calibrate cap drain at a specific point (such as at the moment of the end of the cycle or a random point during it).first possibility means lag, potentially lots of it. second possiblity means it quite probably wouldn't be representative of the energy actually spent, or exploitable... or both."
"bring back the aoe dd.something needs to be done about the annoying drake blobs that have replaced cap ship warfare. now that titans can one-shot lesser capitals there are fewer and fewer of them being used for anything more than ratting.i hate being in these mobs, but have been rather point blank ordered to cross-train to caldari so i can join the eye watering agony of the drake pos bash blob. :( gah, i'd rather be mining... it's less laggy and more entertaining.increase the cap usage, increase the cycle time, increase the stront cost... do whatever needs to be done to make the aoe dd a one-trick-pony, but please for the love of eve bring back the titan wipe-the-field popgun.it's off to the biomass bin for me. ta ta."
"giving titans aoe dd will not fix drake blobs. it will have an equal affect on all ship blobs. if drakes are a problem, then petition to have drakes fixed."
"drakes arn't broken, the servers are.nerfing drakes means we will see cane blobsdrakes just have more ehp and amaing passive recharge, so in high lag survivability is better as well as missiles always hitting a target"
"heres an idea,.. lets have ccp give ships horns,.... for a rorqual it would have some deep base horn that would sound like blapapapapapapapapan orca would have a ships horn hooooooooooooooooooooooooonkand a rookie ship could have a bysicle bell gingle gingle.and a rokh could have a train whistle.=/ no doubt someone will come up with why this would be unbalanced.but lets have a vote for funzies anyway.horns could be activated by the spacebar.and cloaked covert opps ships could have some kinda phantom honk.have fun with it ccp its just a nice bit of polish."
"i don't see how this would be a good thing to have or funny for that matter."
"i* think it would be hilarious! but no, not good."
"eve has sound???(couldn't resist)this would be cool for a week but then just annoying. also there is no sound in space, a horn would be about as usefull as a screen door in a submarine. imagine the noise clutter also (in jita all the suicide gankers would just hold down the space bar), and think of the poor servers (needing to transmit start/stop events to everyone).also the devs need to spend more time killing lag instead of developing pointless features."
"i'm pretty new to eve, but it seems to me that to cloak is to play. it's just another (valid) tactic that's open to anybody to use. you don't like cloakers in your 0.0 space, well i don't like your scary-@ss gangs in 0.0 space - that's why i don't go there yet! you either adapt and deal with it, or you gtfo, as they say."
"if you're pretty new to eve, then you don't really understand all the implications of an afk cloaker yet. it's not something that you can just adapt and deal with..."
"the problem isnt cloaks, its local being used as an intel tool making offensive cloaking impossible.fix local and then see if cloaks are still a problem."
"the biggest issue to cloaks is afk cloaking. people want to address it but they don't want to destroy the usefulness of them.my proposal would be to have cloaks stop cap recharging while ships are cloaked, and have the cloak use cap. ships them are meant to be cloaky ships would get a bonus to reduce the amount of capacitor a cloak uses. the advantages of a system like this are easy to see. we are not stopping active players from using ships. hiding from people is still a possible task. what we are capable of addressing is someone going afk cloaking to stop production of a system. afk cloaking does not stop npcing, and honestly we shouldn't be trying to stop it. npcing is part of the game and it has it's risks while outside of empire, those risks are still there."
"fair to say. but the other issues such as cloaked ratters, for example, aren't really issues. they are just another way to play eve. isn't that one of the things that is great about this game - you're not restricted to one style of gameplay? i think so anyway."
"you have to admit though... if you do remove the afk cloaks - what do you think should stop the production of a system then? in low sec, you can barely operate for more than 5 minutes in peace. hell, even in high sec, you are atrisk of having your hulk or mission ship ganked. if you have control over local, and no one can afk cloak in your alliance space... then where's the risk for you? as soon as an unknown ship appears in local - dock up. pirates can't touch your pve/mining ships. enemy alliances can't touch them.i'll be the first to admit that afk cloaking is a borderline exploit - but hey, they actually do serve a purpose. if we get rid of them, we need to put another system into place on purpose. no pve/mining ship should be safe - especially not in 0.0. right?"
"the fact that the op complains that the \"juicy target\" cloaked flor longer than 10min means that he and his gang were willing sit camp said target for at least 10.01 min. if we made cloaks quit working after 30min would his gang have moved on or waited around spanking thier monkies thinking about the countdown?cloaks are fine on \"warships\". they allow for ninja activities and create whine threads... what more can you want from a module??srsly m8. htfu"
"many of these so called afk cloakers are not afk at all. they really are there watching you. that is their job. have you any idea how long some players are capable of watching a target?a genuine afk cloaker is no threat to anyone. all they do is sit there. it is up to you how you perceive that as a threat.cloaking is working just fine."
"1. some of my hulk ganks were confirmed to be -10/0.0 alts. i'm merely instilling the only risk they ever had to face. and if u're gonna criticize internet spaceship scoreboards, check yourself first. namely the fact that most of your kills were with blobs. fyi, racking up kills behind the safety and risklessness of your blob does not make u a better pvper or whatever \"higher\" notion u have of yourself. all it proves is that u're even more risk-averse than the afk cloakers u cry about.2. from both sides of the equation, as a cloaker and when i was roaming. i can't kill anyone in a covert ops frigate so why should that be a problem? and when i used to roam, i only went for targets that wanted to engage because unlike u, a. i can actually handle the risk of not having an army to hide behind and b. i don't waste my subscription camping one insignificant target who simply isn't gonna and doesn't want to fight. this stupid notion of yours that u're somehow entitled to a guaranteed, constant flow of internet spaceship killmails the instant u jump into a system, get over it.oh and way to ignore the whole post and therefore, show your blatant selfishness and complete lack of credibility. u want easy mode, go back to wow. u wanna cry about risk, learn to handle it yourself without requiring your blob to protect u against one person. pathetic."
"if they don't cloak they will just log off, making suggested cooldown and fuel usage change completely obsolete. there are other ways to catch them. leave cloaks alone."
"you're probably right about the logoffski, dealing with one problem would bring forward that old problem. i wonder why macroers don't do the logoffski bit anymore, they used to do it by default 'back in the day'.if you know any ways, please do let me know. there is only one guy i know that was able to pull it off, he's in your alliance...@anna, i'll admit i'm terrible at soloing. i'll say it out in the open; if anyone is likely to screw up in a fleet, it'll be me. still, i'm the one that actually plays in nullsec and thus encounters this **** on a regular basis. ;) also, i did read your entire first reply which is full of you talking out of your arse.@mimiru - another one with no killboard history to boot. i can only judge people based on what is visible throughout statistics.seriously, is it really too much to ask to get input from people with field experience?"
"experience =/= skill and u just admitted it. so u try 0.0 for so long yet u still fail at it and that's why u want easier killmails by making it easier to gank one defenseless ship? well i'm sry that despite your self-proclaimed \"experience\", u're not able to comprehend the fact that afk cloaking is actually the least of your problems since u can't even take a loss from that one person. so lemme break this down slowly for u--there... r... plenty... of... other... fish... in... the... sea. learn to play, move on, and get your killmails from someone who wants to fight--yes, there's a 1% chance that u might *gasp* take a loss but guess what? that's 0.0. htfu and maybe u won't have to wait forever in vain and end up crying about it in the forums. speaking of which, if u can't refute an argument, don't bother proposing at all."
"hey anna,please come to the great wildlands, have a fly around. try to catch something. report your findings, okay?nullsec is supposed to be risky, needs to be defended. it's nullsec, not highsec."
"so what u're saying is u can't catch **** but if he's running/hiding then he's not attacking, right? so what's this problem u have about \"defending\"? 'cause fyi, that's npc space, which means u have no sovereignty over it. it's not yours. face it, the only thing u're really \"defending\" is against a single loss on your precious little killboard. so is hiding behind 100+ to get a similar feeling of high sec still not safe enough for u against an \"army of one\"?"
"wasting your time anna... he's just a killmail ***** who cries and cries of tears over not getting that cloaky.he will not understand reasoning or rationality."
"aww but fail pirate tears r so delicious!"
"for once... which is rare... i agree with you."
"there should be a change to local and cloacking, together. the whole concept of using a chatroom as an intelligence tool is just wrong. changing it will unbalance cloaks, and they will need to be adjusted. maybe after local change we will have fights happening somewhere except for gates for a change.you say null-sec must be defended, but there currently is nothing to defend. you just dock and wait for them to leave. need some sort of targets that would force people to get their asses up and defend them. make system uprades damageable or something. today, roaming is about going through 30 systems untill you hit a gatecamp. and then it is a question of numbers.or if defenders are feeling generous they might drop a supercap or two on your cruiser gang"
"yet you feel cloaks should be nerfed because they allow ships to hang out in your space giving you the heebie-jeebies...not supported."
"i think it should be possible (though difficult even with max skills) to scan down cloaked vessels. even getting a faint signal without a lock can let you know approximately where to move to to get closer to the cloaked vessel. once you get close enough, you might be able to get a lock.also, i think auto-local should be removed from nullsec. perhaps a corporation or alliance could pay an upkeep to keep an updating local channel in a particular system, and allow all alliance members and friendlies access to that channel, while neutral and hostile players entering would be unable to tell how many are in the system. the channel updater should also be destructible."
"supported. it should cost isk though, not plex, isk. also there should be a limit on it, just like remaps, other restrictions should apply as well,"
"as long you don`t mind huge surge of old characters being converted to titan pilots..."
"this feature will either allow abuse or be useless. not very productive. in the entire lifetime of this char he has trained one skill branch that is not very useful.. and even then, i would rather keep it just in case."
"\"you train up negotiation skills, and suddenly your favorite highsec mission agent reach the effective quality threshold to reach into lowsec. you train up afterburner, and suddenly ab cycle is long enough that ab warp no longer saves you align time.\"i feel so sorry for you for training a skill who'se description and purpose is exactly what you complain about.question comes in as... why do you train them then?\"drones useless in pve\"because everything that is not sansha incursions or sleepers are getting the new ai? what? are you a time traveller or something coming from the far future? by the time pve missions are changed to the new ai [if they are going to be], years will have passed, and if a drone pilot who had basically three years to train about two months worth of skills didin't... well sucks to be stupid i guess.as for \"mistake skills\"... starting at level 1 you can have a good taste of what the skill is doing. at worst you're gonna loose a week or two worth of training. you'd gain what... 150k sp from it? what are you gonna do with that? and if you trained a whole lot of skills to v for something you hate... then i'll repeat myself... sucks to be stupid. (and don't try to be witty saying \"but it got nerfed! waaah waaaah!!!\" there is only three scenarios possible : you trained something after knowing it was an exploit in the hope of getting an edge, knowing full well it will be nerfed (such as the nanophoon), it will be made usefull again in a foreseable future once it's fixed again or it simply isin't as bad as you say it is simply because you don't even know what you're comparing it with [the most classic case on the forum]. either way, there's no real reason to refund it)sp refunding wasn't ever brought up before ccp removed learning skills. sp refunds have been maybe twice, for a few hundread sps, during extended downtimes gone wrong, but that's it.refunding was never intended, it has extremely limited usefullness barring exploiting or abusing it, and it just overall smells of min-maxing e-peen insecurity. overall, it's a bad design idea.by the time you're done arguying over it, you probably finished training up the equivalent of whatever amount you'd gain.\"i wonder how many sp in total across tranquility would get lost of hybrid/gallente skills if this were to become a reality - any bets?\"hybrids serves a purpose. you might not like it, but it's still that."
"causing lowsec missions to spawn wasn't in the skill description. as dev stated in general section post, sleeper ai won't come to all pve right away, the first partial incursion patch will only cover sansha incursion rats, with sleeper ai implemented into other types only later on. so there is still a few months to train up gun skills. of course, your existing drone sp will still be wasted due to game changes, but you won't be left without without a means to fight, as long as you keep current with the forums. sp refunding was intended by ccp, because ccp implemented it. as in the past, if enough people want it, refunds will happen. sp training is passive, so forum arguments has no effect on it."
"i support the time limit but only to prevent griefing stolen accounts.i like the idea. i don't think i'll ever do it myself, but that's because i'm a purist and value each sp as much as the next one. but people who want to try something new should definitely be allowed to.i'm going for 10%-25% loss, as you should maintain the majority of the sp, but it should still come at a high enough cost that it won't be done frivolously.i think there should also be a limit set that would allow a maximum of, say, 10 million sp to be redeemed per month. that way, when accounts get griefed or players make an irrational decision, it won't hurt as much. i think 10 million is plenty to redistribute into a new path of gameplay. 2-5 million might also be reasonable, since it can be done once a month. a player putting 2 million a month into the same path they're training will be training that path twice as fast overall."
"don't forget that sp gain is not standardised accross skills.let's say you are completly specced into perc/will, you shouldn't be able to train a capital ship skill to v, and get the refund of it to split amongst, for exemple, leadership or industry skills.as for refunding meant as a feature, no, it was meant as a dev tool.also, drones are never useless. and if negotiation got you into lowsec, chances are that relationship from simply grinding missions for that agent would have eventually gotten you at a point where he would have started shipping you to lowsec anyway."
"and you didn't predict that among all those choices, some would suit you more than others. and you admit having a preference for specialization. yet you never bothered to ask for advice in the corp chat or on this forum or, y'know, maybe just reading the damn manual. and don't tell me you didn't know how or where: you willingly subscribed to a massive multiplayer game.i'm sorry but you're the only one to blame.the last reason there should be sp reallocation is to patch up player's mistakes. you're not the only one who trained \"useless\" skills, but training all factions up to battleships? that's an epic fail.also i would add that it's your own damn problem if you're too stubborn to appreciate any of the gallente or faildari ships. i'm an exclusive faildari pilot, yet i'm perfectly aware that every factions have useful and worthwhile ships. you have to be a terrible nitpicker for not appreciating a single ship from those factions."
"linkified linksdon't tweak war decs - fix'emoriginal proposal ( locked ) :"
"perhaps the price should be based on how many members are in the corp that is declaring war. that way larger corps have to pay more."
"not a good idea. all the griefer corps are already 3 man corps supported by countless neut-rr, who are in other 3 man corps. they are actually one large corp which use one vent/ts, splintered into many small ones. this is to maximize cheap 2-mil decs."
"i believe, or at least hope, the focus is starting to shift from new features to building a solid game. afaik, incursion is one of the highest-rated expansions put out so far (although i think apocrypha comes in first).the different camps will never be completely satisfied, but it is also not good to focus on one side over the others. during my term on the csm, i feel they understood that pretty well, and tried to make a mutually-beneficial resolution (such as the orca - i've seen pvpers use orcas to good effect).despite the mistakes they've made in the past, i believe ccp is the mmo company that cares the most about their players. i'm not a fanboi nor completely satisfied, but the actions they took with issues both during my term and thereafter tells me that they love and support their ip and the players that make it great."
"definitely agree - there's no solution that will make everyone happy. it's a complete impossibility.still, i think that we could find solutions that make a large portion of the player base, in all different camps, go \"hm. well. i guess it's better than what we have... i suppose i can live with it.\"everyone is driven by personal ego: it's not a surprise that many people would like to grind in peace, but at the same time demand that everyone else should be fair game when he wants to gank them. obviously, it's an unrealistic wish. ;)maybe i'm naive, but i'd like to think that most people can step out of their comfort zone for long enough to try and look to the game's best interest as a whole."
"no, most people are casual gamers, they aren't serious about the game.only the most hardcore eve followers can have serious opinions, gamers that understand the game in and out and spend hours \"testing the product\"if there was some way to filter out the useless people and amplify voice of hardcore followers, i'd be all for that."
"a concise and accurate description of the current state of eve."
"ccp listening to the players is what has progressively made the game worse imo. nerf wardecs!nerf suicides!boost amarr!nerf nano!nerf falcon!boost minmatard!boost gay-lenteenerf....you get the point.ccp listened to the player base, so if you dont like things blame yourselves.personally,i would like to see ccp grow back the hair they once had on thier berries and tell people who dont like things that hellokittyonline is that way"
"maybe ccp could use some kind of threadnought where everyone states what he doesn't like about high/low/null/whisky/whatever without telling ccp what to do about it.i lately like to read posts who state what they don't like about game mechanics or where they see unbalance and step aside to let ccp figure out a way to deal with it (read: don't propose a fix/nerf/boost).there probably should be another forum besides feature&ideas to just bring up areas of the game that people don't like and what they don't like about them.the assembly hall could be used for this, but most of the time it's a feature&idea forums with voting."
"that is why the thousand paper cut thread was born. go add you two cents over there."
"the thousand papercuts are about specifics and details. this is the absolute opposite - it's about the overall game balance. it's mostly about safety vs profits in all different areas of eve, and the side effects it'll have: what areas become attractive? will pirates have anything to do? will it be possible to make a competitive profit, despite working in pirate infested areas? and so on, and so forth..."
"*bump*"
"uhm. just... trying to see the point there. why are you sitting around in a grav site, waiting for toy-soldier spawns? surely there are better places to find a fight....unless it's becuase you are trying to secure the grav site so you can send in a squishy miner. in this case, i'm not really sure about the point. i know a battleship miner has no problems at all dealing with it. heck, even a t1 covetor barge can deal - i've done it. a hulk would easily manage. worst case, warp out when the rats come calling, and send in a combat ship - like everywhere else. drone handling is a pain in the arse, but... i guess ccp wanted it that way for mysterious reasons.if there's any issue with solo mining in w-space gravsites - i'd suggest it's not the spawns, but rather the way how the viability of solo mining, especially in dangerous areas, has been almost completely ignored by ccp since the release of the game."
"supported"
"they suck sometimes."
"#ERROR!"
"sounds decent. not sure about the capabilities of the server and if the code allows it, but supported nonetheless."
":==8(]#[)8==:"
"seeing as more people fly titans... this should be fixed that the black ops should be more widly flown.afrom a couple threads i have read through and conducted i think people's main concerns with the black ops are 3 different things- does not warp cloaked like ever other ship that goes through a covert ops portal- not enough jump range- not a big enough fuel bay as to not require an alt with a cover hauleri think any of one of these things \"mainly jump range\" would make this ship a bit more popular-ragepeace through power"
"i'll take any one of these,supported"
"pls continue futher in the back op topic that has been running for 14 months and still not a single sighn of ccp that they are working on it"
"retribution does absurd amounts of damage at close range, and way more damage than any other t2 frigate at skimish range (~17km), while being able to swap between those two roles on a whim. it can do all this and have way more tank at the same time than pretty much any other t2 frigate. retribution is the best assault frigate in any situation where you don't need a point (e.g. when you're not solo or playing a bad interceptor in gangs)."
"the retribution is certainly an oddity among the assault ships, and it's tempting to \"fix it\". still, i'm not sure it's necessary. if we operate under the assumption that all afs should be able to operate as tacklers or solo fighters, then yeah, it makes sense.on the flip side though... the retribution is a lovely ship in it's own right, assuming you use it where it makes sense - as a cheap source of dps, and tough as nails to boot. it's great to fend off pirates, if you are ok with the pirates escaping with their lives. it's a great ship for any kind of fleet warfare.i kind of both want to /sign and /unsign at the same time! is it necessary for us that all assault fighters can take on the role as a solo ship?"
"not sure i agree.yes, it does go very good damage, however it's not that much better than a wolf. in fact, i would say it's dps is lower than a wolf when you factor in damage types. while a wolf is able to loaf fusion or titanium sabot to take down explosive and kinetic resists, the only think ret puts out is em and thermal.secondly, while it does have good skirmish range, it's at the cost of damage. sure, with conflag at 5km it's a beast, but at 15km with scorch it's really not that fantastic. high, but not too high. also, to mount face melting dps comes at the cost of a) buffer tank because high powered guns and damage mods soak up grid and low slot, respectively, and b) using high damage crystals/guns makes your active tank suffer seriously. personally, i think it would be fine; ret would still suffer from slow speeds, lack of other damage types, and running tackle would further inhibit cap. well, it sure seems odd to me that ccp would make 7/8 of them soloable, then just leave on glaringly unable to. i can understand your points, but in my opinion, it should at least have the option as, as it's already been pointed out, 99.9% of other combat ships havea second mid for at least the capability of being flown solo. cheers,papa"
"only thing wrong with the ret is the lack of a 5th turret and the fittings to fit it."
"not supported unless its:-1 low-1 high+1 midstop homogenizing eve."
"you think thats stupid take a look at the amarr destoryer too lolz"
"gonna give this idea a big, \"**** no!\"amarr does not have to be the best race in every ****ing ship class. that and the retribution needs that high slot for nos. you make it sound like its a gimp ship and it's not. leave the retribution alone ffs."
"for all intents and purposes yes, the only gun af that does not conform with it is the jaguar .. but since they had to create two gun platforms for the minmatar i guess some toes had to be cut for the shoe to fit.look at them again: gun afs have damage/range bonus, +1 low compared to the destroyers and comparable damage. it is accurate all the way down to the token drone of the enyo, but it is probably just a freaky coincidence so in your own words active tankers gain nothing while you hand the buffer crowd a tackle slot. wonder how that will affect the way it will be fitted.utility highs may not have as much crap that fits in them but they are just as useful a mids."
"i consider the retribution to be one of the best afs out there for its role, which is anti-drone and anti-frigate. they're tanky little things that are quite hard to take down, feature good damage projection compared to other ships of their class, and have high dps to boot. they're even capable of being pretty quick considering they're amarr ships. tackle is the only thing they can't do well, but that's why you don't run a single retri on its own. they might not be the best at any one of those things, but they're good at all of them, which makes them a well-rounded and dangerous platform.the retribution is fine as it is in my opinion. it's one of the few assault frigates that lives up to the name 'assault frigate.'"
"we need a way to tell that the client got our command and tries to send it to the server. this might also solve as a way to alleviate server stress in fleet fights as some people don't try to push even more commands onto the que, though i have no idea how the server handles command requests by the clients.here are some examples what i'm talking about:you activate the overheating of a module, but the icon doesn't show that it got your command until the server did activate it server-side and did send your client the info that it's activated now. if there is lag you can deactivate the overheat again or reactivate it and burn your modules.you activate the cloak at the incoming gate after giving your ship the command to move. the icon of the cloak does only show it's been activated when the server actually did it server-side and told your client about it. if there is lag you can accidentally deactivate the cloak again.you activate your guns in a laggy situation (fleetfight) but get no response, as the server doesn't have had time yet to activate them server-side. you activate your guns again and add to the pile of commands the server has to chew through but still got no idea about your client getting that you want that gun activated.ideas:- give us a little 'in progress' icon- make activated icons distinguishable from not-activated ones by flashing blue or white- make activated icons distinguishable from not-activated ones by keeping them recessed and not popping back uptl;dricons resembling toggle-switch functions should not act like push-buttons"
"that would be nice. the quick answer would be to make the interface most people use in fleet fights to track commands sent popup automaticly when the server cpu reaches a set zone or if the ping to the server gets to high.it might need to be reworked so it looks better i have never pulled it up. its like a 4 button combo ot activate.so you know why your modules are not reacting as fast as they should. working around the 1 second tic of the server makes module response work diffrently then if you are operating a fast twitch game."
"this is almost as good as the one \"send a message to everyone who has selected not to accept messages\".everyone with black backgrounds should be banned for sure."
"i like that direction, maybe ccp can think of some new way of finding resources for gathering, that would require some \"human interaction\" - something like scanning (when will we see those comets we heard about for such a long time?), something like gas mining, but without the boring part of spending half an hour on site. the new sites could replace the old gravimetrics.those sites would obviously had too reappear in new place after mined (like other mini-profession sites), and the ammount of minerals avaible on active sites have to corespond with amount of minerals avaible on asteroid fields (so, a lot of sites, that have significant yield, in short time).the fun part would be the fact, that when a lot of players mine in one system it would shortly be depleted from resources, so miners have to move to next system, and next system... (since the site respawns in different system)it would all come to calculating reward/time ration of current mining so it is unchanged (or higher, since it may reduce botting hopefully). lets say that today it takes 1 hours to mine 20m worth of mins (for the sake of argument, i dont know the real isk value for mining)so, if a player would have to spend 5-10 minutes to find a site, and than only 15-20 minutes on site itself he should make something close to 10m.since scanners can find sites in like 30 seconds (it happens often with 7-probe scanning) the would have to be some twist for finding those sites, maybe instead of scaning to 100% you can only scan to \"theoretical 100%\", warp to 0km, launch some \"mining scanner\" that would have some 2 minutes or so scaning time to get the actual site location. (it would also add the thrill of racing with other miners to get to the site fast.there are a lot of complications with this: - the problem with scanning of those sites by miners with combat probes (on the other hand, why not? with huge yield before they get to the site you can have half or so mined, and there can be sig radius reduction while on site maybe to make it harder?) - problem with getting today miners to suddenly learn new skills just so they can mine. (maybe \"mining probe\" would be available using today mining skills, they would still have to learn scanning, but they could just get bm's to \"theoretical 100%\" from friendly scanning player on day one) - and many more, some that i dont even realise yet :p(wow, and i planed it for a short response, but got carried away with this idea :p)well, i don't remember them saying its a passive income :pwith incursion you will be able to set up 2 week internals, thats pretty passive"
"capital ship maintenance arrayship maintenance array"
"this could definitely bring more player corps into low-sec. from a \"story-line\" stand point it could be as simple as concord has agreed to extend protection to those that are willing to help support the operation. fee's would be a sliding scale based on how far into low-sec the corp wants to go."
"i do like some aspects of the idea"
"so how about we create a bookmark, then edit the coordinates.or even better: a 'warp to coordinates' feature, where we just type in random numbers."
"ok ,\"science\" aside, lets talk real gameplay, if you want true physics to run the game.. well, its not that game :pfirst of all this idea of \"strategic bookmarking\" is totally missed, since you can bookmark in mid warp.second ability to: warp to few au from target, warp x km/au at the aligned direction and so on - disturbs delicate balance of today mechanic of of flying, bookmarking and finding other players and escaping pursue.- bookmarking: ccp clearly stated that they don't want bookamrks far away in space, they even moved all bookmarks that where more than 20 au from last warpable objects to exactly 20au. if you can warp in any direction, even a short distance you can just keep pushing the distance further and further from system. - today players have to make safe spots to be more safe from others, its simply don't require any sophisticated knowledge to start with. other players can look for them either by scanning probes or directional scanner. if a player didn't make a bm's in system before he got attacked he is put in disadvantage, since all he can do to escape is warp to other warpable object that can already be camped. it fits nicely into eve reality and requires players to prepare before ratting in unsafe system.- and escaping itself, now to be able to warp away quick you have to aling to something, or in general direction of something to begin with. if you are not aligned to some escape object like station, gate, bm or something than you pretty much always flying, most of the time at full speed, maybe orbiting at full speed or approaching enemy (player or rat). when you decide its time to flee you have to spend time aligning to escape. with \"warp in aligned direction\" it would pretty much be a big red button with \"press to escape\" label on it."
"summit summeries with complementry dev blogs. next week can't come soon enough."
"duplicate post please remove."
"like all promises made by ccp and the csm, i'll believe it when i see it."
"you know, with such a large playerbase, i'm sure some out there would be willing to voice-over an npc for free. or to convince their non-eve siblings or friends to do so.this concept is viable, best example of it is the movie 'iron sky' that's coming out sometime this year.they pooled voluntary artists, programmers, and lots of actor-extras via the wreckamovie.com site.who would object to having his voice eternalised in eve?"
"i like the idea. yes, there is a lot to talk, but not the whole text needs to be spoken - maybe just the greetings or the objectives and reward.+1 for the crowd-sourcing idea of producing the voice-overs. with the eve-voice distortion feature, we can already produce them by ourselves."
"*flog* *flog* *flog*"
"bump fix it.."
"supported. i would at least love extra jump range. i mean seriously. bigger fuel bay would be good for 2nd."
"- does not warp cloaked like ever other ship that goes through a covert ops portal- not enough jump range- not a big enough fuel bay as to not require an alt with a cover hauleri think any of one of these things \"mainly jump range\" would make this ship a "
"mabe ccp should give then most bonuses discribed in this topic and change their size to t2 battlecruisers. desighn new t2 battleships (or t3)"
"i can see why you want this implemented yes from me, i hate one of my toons names"
"i agree"
"it would be handy"
"show us your boobs!"
"itt: 40 year old virgins."
"if you're gonna waste a ton of dev time on this thing that has nothing to do with insurance, then by god it'd better have jiggly boobs!supported."
"confirming that i enjoy realism. nothing over the top, but realism. all fat should wiggle...its fat.small realistic movements in clothes, hair, fat, and yes...even breasts.but again, nothing over the top."
"i, dan delnucci, support this movment."
"this has been a long standing problem. i'll throw my hat in."
"i love this ideabalance the changes so that hybrids suck just like they do nowbut you can switch between a sniping and short range dps just by changing amo, not refiting a shipthat way you get all the penalties of all weapon systems just like you do now but you also have a 2-in-1 weapon system which creates unique tactics and is completely diferent from any other weapons"
"and here's yet another good way to fix hybrids! if you're reading this and the other posts about blasters and rails, ccp, there are plenty of options for how to fix hybrids. just choose one, please."
"bump"
"i've found the solution for me, instead of waiting i'm starting to crosstrain minmatar.in fact gallente race ships/weapons is the tutorial of eve.it shows you what you should never do in the game, train for them"
"make derm biggar"
"agreed, i love the idea behind the ships. close quick and whammy. however, that is not what we get out of our blaster boats. supported."
"yes i do agree that gallente ships need a boost and a hybrid fix but i dont agree with all your ideas...1. yes this is awesome idea... 2. no!this would affect all ships that armor tank... ammar dont need a boost... personally i would like to see the armor tanking bonus changed to an armor amount per level... this would affect the brutix, myrm, hyperion, astarte...3. imo gallente dont need a base speed boost they need a mass reduction... that way when you use a mwd with armor plates you will still beable to go fast..."
"wrong.correct, because they're way underpowered.wrong. when was the last time you saw a fleet megathron? people are discouraged training for the nyx in favor of the aeon due to its lack of ehp. the myrmidon is rarely used outside of pve, and the incursus is outclassed so heavily by a rifter it's not even funny.so.. come back in two years after you have more experience flying various ships and claim gallente aren't underpowered then. you're somewhat right about drakes, but that's because a drake is a dumb mouthbreathing brick with insane tanking ability.. but it suffers heavily in other roles."
"as far as #2 goes, amarr would still be some of the slowest ships, so removing the armor rig penalty really wouldn't change all that much since relatively they'd still be behind the other races (except maybe caldari). an armor tanked harbinger is still not going to catch up to an armor tanked hurricane if this change went through (at least i'd hope not). and as far as reducing mass, i'm fine with whatever puts the blaster boats over the top as far as speed goes, but if we keep the armor rig penalty as is, they'll always be inferior because the penalty will hurt even more the faster the ships go."
"hmm... in that case i could see the penilty being split between agility and speed... so base for rigs would be 5% to agility and 5% to speed... that way with skills at v you get a 2.5% reduction in speed/agility per rig... so now 2 rigs = 1 old rig in max speed reduction"
"good points, op. i just hope these can be taken to heart and implemented in some fashion. time will tell, i suppose, but it appears it'll be later rather than sooner."
"another thousand posts about gallente/hybrid fix.i support"
"supported."
"some good ideas, some bad. main issue with gallente is hybrids though."
"yes and no. hybrids are indeed a big issue, mainly the tracking at close ranges, which prevents the ships themselves from outperforming others even when they're right in the exact sweet spot of their optimal ranges (i.e. web/scram range). but even if we fixed those issues, the speed issue would remain. i fly gallente ships exclusively, in gangs of all sizes, and i've gone through these problems first hand. with perfect skills and no implants and nothing but a mwd fitted, the gallente bc line (all the bc lines go the same speed with their mwds on, regardless of tier) goes 1112m/s. this is without armor rigs or any kind of plates at all. the caldari bc line goes 1038m/s. sounds like a reasonable difference on it's face right? lets add one armor rig to the gallente bc. instantly the gallente bc goes down to 1057m/s. anyone who's flown an armor tanked ship knows that you can't really tank it properly without 3 armor rigs, so lets add two more rigs. this brings the gallente bc down to 982m/s. this is well below even the caldari bc line, and right off the bat we know one thing: unless the gallente bc lands right on top of the caldari bc, it can never catch it.for the sake of argument, lets go down this road farther. lets say the armor rigs we put on are for active repping, but we need a fleet setup so we switch to trimarks to give our ship a usable buffer tank. still the same stats that we had for the active repped bc, but now lets add a 1600mm plate. instantly our speed goes down to 872m/s. try catching a drake now. even worse, try catching a harbinger or a prophecy which actually have better base speed than both gallente and caldari bcs (!). and just as an aside, with 3 eanms and a 1600mm plate, going that speed, the myrm only gets 80k ehp with max skills. you can add another 1600mm plate to push it up over 100k ehp, but then you have no slots for mag stabs (or gyros however you fit your myrm), or tracking enhancers or anything like that, and no pg left over for medium guns after you fit the second 1600mm plate on. sure you've got ewar slots in the mids but what does that matter when you can't even get close enough to another ship to apply your dps. and this is for a myrmidon, forget about getting decent ewar on a brutix.all this would still be ok, if the weapon systems available could project damage and the ewar could help make the ship usable. but in the case of the brutix, even neutrons barely take you past scrambler range with antimatter ammo. so we have incredibly slow ships, designed to use the weapons with the worst range, trying to catch ships that have to make no compromises between tank, dps, and speed. even if you fit autos on your myrm, why would you fly it when you can just fly a hurricane which is faster and can get better dps without sacrificing tank.try fighting a drake with a myrm if you land 20km off. firstly, you can't catch him because if you armor tanked your myrm like you should, you're at a disadvantage in speed. secondly, your tank is worse than his if he fit properly (assuming buffer tanks). thirdly, you're doing less dps than he is if he's ham fit, which if this is a solo fight i would hope he would be. if you swap out the myrm for a dual rep active tank, you're still slower than he is, though by a less margin than the plate, and you have a better tank, but guess what: your tank is only as good as long as you have navy 800 cap boosters. if you can't web and scram the drake, you can't apply full dps to him. add to that more than half of your dps is drones, which are easy to kill especially with missiles. this is just a solo situation. extrapolate this to fleet warfare and you can see why gallente ships are left in the dust. the only way we could fix this problem without altering the speed of gallente ships is to give blasters with null a longer range than lasers with scorch, which kills variety in the game."
"this makes sence to me. why not?"
"i could support this if the price was lower, but as it stands now, there is absolutely no reason anybody would do this. i figure a 1:1 ratio to train one character, or 2:1 to train all 3. simple, and ccp winds up with more money in their pockets. win/win.edit: marked the support box"
"well...you could train the character on a separate account and then later after you have finished the training transfer it to the primary account....but somehow i don't think you approve of that...."
"the transfer fees amount to way more expense.proposal supported."
"1.0"
"i guess you cant take the last one off the list until you have new forums that make the old ones archivable or are you talking about something else. it has been stated that the old forums will remain available but with no added features. once the 18th hits you can update the list."
"edit: having just watched the current live stream, mention was made of this option for incarna. it seems that ccp are willing to consider such a choice if there is enough support for it, so i'm bumping this thread back into view.having just spent a good hour messing around on the new carbon character creator on sisi, it struck me that we can change virtually every aspect of our physical appearance except our height.now, since ccp have worked hard to achieve a sense of realism with this new piece of software, it strikes me as short sighted to not include a variable for height. after all, i can walk 5 minutes up my street and meet 30 people all of varying stature. now i am aware that ccp do not want people to go crazy with an idea like this and making characters that are 2 foot high and 6 feet wide, or similarly ones who are 17 feet high and 2 feet wide.what i propose is a max height differential of 1 foot. now i realise that doesn't sound much, but it should suffice to give a more realistic range of heights. the minimum height would be locked at 5 feet and 5 inches, going to a locked maximum of 6 feet and 5 inches. im aware that this doesn't cover anywhere near the range of real life, but i feel it would be much more realistic than the current limitations.the difference in height could be increased or decreased in 2 inch increments giving 7 differing height values for each character, or if thats not enough, then perhaps 1 inch increments could be employed. hopefully a change such as this would appease the players who like to be as unique as possible without providing too much extra work for ccp to carry out.please vote as you see fit, hopefully i don't get flamed into oblivion"
"supported :)"
"agreed!!"
"good idea."
"i came, i saw, i like. +support"
"supported!"
"we have a winnar"
"support!!!"
"1.0"
"supported .. wonder if we'll see dwarf sized ppl in stations .. hehe"
"aye! and i want bigger hands! coz big hands means a big ...."
"1.0"
"very good pointsupported"
"yeah make me a head taller then cutter so i can glomp him easier kidding, it makes sense supported"
"supported, but this should be in the test server feedback subforum."
"i will make a post there as well at some point. however this is an idea for adding new options, not altering something that already exists. there is currently no option for changing height, i am proposing one be added."
"+1 why? because i got high...i love you too mike"
"supported"
"supported"
"really, this is a no-brainer. i don't buy ccp's excuses about this particular feature. it's better to have it in there even if it's minimal than to not have it at all. it's unacceptable to have everyone at the exact same height, especially in a supposedly \"next-gen\" game."
"supported. females characters should (usually) be shorter than males ect. height is an important dynamic."
"oh i would so love to read the answer to a petition covering this.\"by design\" is what it would most likely say.and from behind the office doors would travel a voice.. \"why the hell didn't we think of that\"regards, lax"
"they thought of it and decided against it. it's not like it is a secret, and people have been upset about it since it was announced. iirc the reason given was something like \"height variations would require a much more complex animation system and extra work. we think those resources are better spent elsewhere\". males will be bigger than females though.i'll still support this, since even limited height variation would be a nice thing to have."
"i'm struggling to see how this could be a problem, i certainly can't see how it would cause any issues with animation. it is simply amtter of scaling. think of it almost as a zoom function. the animation should not need to be tweaked and surely if women and men are different heights already, then the ability to change scale and keep things consistent already exists.the original issue that ccp had, and please correct me if i'm wrong, was that people were asking for a massive range of different heights, ranging from the very small to the stupidly huge. such massive differences would of course lead to animations for walking and environment interaction needing a total overhaul and thus a great deal of extra work. i cannot see how a 1 foot height differential could lead to the same issues.clearly skeletal/musculature resizing whilst keeping proportions relative is possible, as you can already do this on the version available on sisi. if you increase the characters weight, everything else scales along with it. if you move the positioning of the hips, the posterior and adjoining musculature shifts as well. why then, when such subtle changes are possible (and we are talking fractions of a millimetre here) is it so hard to implement an incremental height change?"
"you should be able to change height not width (as long as it stays realistic)"
"the reasons why i dislike and distrust anything facebook-and-friends-related are mine, so i won't list them, but they are many.the reasons why ccp decided to drive this contest only through facebook are their, and i don't care.the fact is that a lot of us are obviously upset by this move, and i feel particularly sorry for the people who spent so many hours designing those 47 great hulls --- as in \"numerous unpaid work hours\", yes --- that their work ends up in such a trashcan. in fact, i haven't even cared to take a look at them since this \"facebook account mandatory\" condition was stated.possible alternatives have already been stated in this thread.also, mister maccloud, you've stated that you don't see anything wrong with the way this contest is held, which is just fine. but your trying to argument indifinetly with other people is getting annoying and, i feel, quite insulting. windjammer, if you will please stop feeding the troll.i'd rather go with a good spanking. the whole department.i personnaly find it really helpful to handle evemails outside of the game client.since there's no such thing as hacking the plain text stream an email is, i take it you're not familiar enough with network security to even care to have you know how not familiar you are with network security.it's always great to get csm's opinion, thanks. and please, tread on the toes of the person who decided that it would be facebook-only when you see him/her ;-pdon't hint me too much, please... ten years ago, a group of friends and i got the whole ip range of our university banned from a charity website in such a way. it was the \"1m clicks in a fortnight and we'll dig x wells in africa\" kind of stuff. we elaborated and nohup'ed wget loop based shell scripts (with a slight sleep, we're not animals ;-) on every single machine we had access to --- and there was plenty of it. they nearly got their quorum in 2 days. (for the record, they banned us but didn't discard our \"clicks\" ;-)"
"bump. because this is important and shouldn't slip off the csm's / ccp's radar."
"cool idea!"
"i'd love to fly blaster boats again =]"
"i am not the only player who thinks information is too readily available to the masses. between kill mails, local, and the map statistics it is actually a challenge to be an unknown quantity.so what i aim to do here is effectively remove easy passive intel methodology. there have been numerous ideas fronted about how to do this, but nobody has addressed the secondary issues that will arise. such as d-scan being relatively cumbersome and myopic by design, probe mechanics, lack of effective system control tools, station situational awareness or lack thereof, and the way the tactical grid works.the goals of this thread are as follows:remove local as an intelligence tool.remove killmails, potentially replacing it with a less information loaded system.lessen the immediate accuracy of map statistics.fix d-scan or replace with something else.adjust probing mechanics.introduce a more active method of sovereignty system port control.lessen the absolute effects of cloaking devices, possibly by introducing a decloaking module for ships that can use covert cloaks.increase situational awareness while docked.let's start with killmails. killmails and killboards have been around for as long as i've been playing and they have only gotten more accurate and informative. possible solutions could be removal of kill mails entirely or reduction in the amount of information they supply to merely the who, where, and what ships. no fitting information should be in these mails, let that be a mystery to be solved by loot. i'm personally for the removal of them entirely since they only promote carebear pvp aka blobbing and hotdroppping.local is a tougher sell, while everyone agrees on principle that local needs to be changed, rarely are actual solutions unanimously accepted. this is typically because other game mechanics need adjustment and players in general never figure out that more than one thing can be changed at a time. i personally think local needs to be delayed, requiring you to speak before you show up in it.map statistics can be helpful, but certain information can actually reveal too much. the only things map statistics should show is average number of pilots within the last 24 hrs and average number of ships destroyed within the last 24 hrs. any more info than that and you cross into the realm of being able to 'local' analyze a system without ever jumping into it.the directional scanner is a relic that has never actually been an effectively useful tool other than for some niche uses. the main problem is the range. i propose that a ship's sensor strength determines the range of d-scan. this also allows larger and slower ships more warning that trouble is coming. if your sensor strength is 33, your d-scan range is 33 au. d-scan should be added to the overview window as a seperate tab. d-scan will refresh automatically every 5 seconds when it is the active tab, or at will when player clicks the refresh button. overview and d-scan are mutually exclusive, only one will function at a time and that is determined by a toggle.probes no longer provide a 'bm'. instead you find a target using d-scan, select it, and activate the probe launcher. the probe will have a chance similar to how ecm works now to track or lose a target. the sensor strength and signature radius will impact success differently. if the probe locks on, it launches and becomes an entity that the owner can warp to (similar to warp to fleet member). the probe will chase the target till the target exits system or the probe duration ends. probes are vulnerable to ecm bursts.removing local will create a need for a more proactive means of controlling access to sovereign systems:port of entry towerpos style tower needing fuel and having half the fittings of a normal tower. this tower can only be anchored in sovereign systems 100 km from a stargate or outpost. the tower can only support weapon and ew structures and has no bubble.continued..."
"as a rule, cloaking in eve is fine. it is the utter lack of anti cloaking tools that is the problem. however the paranoia surrounding the 'afk cloaker' infection will cease to be a problem with the other changes listed in this compendium. yet there is still a definable need for a way to actively counter a cloaking device on grid. most people think there should be a way to deactivate a cloak, but i have another thought on that:lightwave distortion rectifier arraycan only be used by ships that can fit covert ops cloaks. has small, medium, and large versions (large being unused until the advent of bs cov ops. the module does heat damage to all cloaking devices that are active within the aoe similar to overheating and subject to heat damage reduction effects (excluding thermodynamics skill). ldras will damage any other fitted ldras within range (same ship included).duration: small 5 s, medium 10 s, large 20 sheat damage: 100%, 200%, 400%radius: 15 km, 30 km, 60 kmcpu: 10000 (reduced by role bonuses)pg: 10, 100, 1000situational awareness when docked at a station needs to be adjusted. not because players prepared outside of a station shouldn't be able to camp it, but because undocking into a complete unknown should not need to happen. allow a 250 km d-scan inside the station. this will give a docked player an idea what is outside, but not who or why."
"nobody even going to troll this? color me surprised."
"you've lumped a bunch of changes into one suggestion, and they're all game-breakingly bad. i expect most assembly-hall frequenters have come to expect nothing less from you, thus the lack of response.you can't make \"remove local\", \"nerf cloaking\", \"remove killmails\" and \"nerf probing\" more palatable by lumping them all together into one package."
"the biggest reason why you didn't get much response is because much of what you proposed was already talked about and the vast majority of the players just don't agree with such changes."
"be honest with the guy... we all know he's full of ####."
"why are they bad? they all look good to me, even the ones that nerf me."
"i won't stop suggesting good ideas simply because everyone else wants eve to stay or increase its carebearism."
"up!"
"supported! this is not just a fw problem ether."
"currently the skill marginal trading allows people to put up buy orders on the market without having the full amount of isk to cover it. this is a very useful skill when say the minimum amount to buy is in increments of one or two items at a time. allowing the trader to invest money elsewhere at the same time to develop a good income.in no way do i want this aspect changed except for one thing. if the buyer does not have the isk to cover the minimum buy amount, their buy order should not appear on the market until they have the money to cover a minimum buy amount. so if a buyer puts up a buy amount for five hundred items and then turns around and empties their wallet, the buy order will immediately disappear until enough money to cover a minimum buy amount is back in the wallet.currently people are abusing this skill in what is still being investigated as an exploit. they put up for sale about a thousand items of something at a high price. then turn around and somewhere about ten jumps away with an alt, put up a buy order for the same item but they have a minimum buy amount at almost the amount of what is being sold elsewhere in the region. they immediately zero out their wallet on the account that has the buy order. so when the seller goes to sell to the buy order, it glitches out and the buy order vanishes.now any heavy market trader can see the same item being sold for a high price and then being bought up for an even higher price and have reservations, but it is impossible to know if the buy order is for a scam or a legitimate one. on contract scams you can carefully look and see what you are getting. with this, it is impossible. now i fully expect those who use and endorse abusing this glitch/scam/exploit to come running in here and rallying their friends to derail it, but i am hoping the realistic market traders will give support to this change.some arguments will be that the person putting up the buy order is losing isk in the brokers fees and such. in all actuality it is negligible at best. another argument will be that the person will simply wait for what they are selling to sell, and then immediately cancel their buy order. that means they have to actually be logged in and paying attention, whereas the current glitch is a 'fire and forget' scam. risking virtually nothing and abusing a mechanic that the seller has no way of knowing it is real or fake buy order.i look forward to the comments and rage from the exploiters.tl;dr - if you don't have enough isk in your wallet to cover the minimum amount in a buy order, the buy order immediately disappears."
"i concur."
"i support this, but i'd rather have them do something else. i'd rather them send the wallet of the individual into negatives. this, coupled with a suggested change to make people with negative account balances impossible to reprocess/send to the biomass facility, will make rmt dealers, scam artists, and others right where they deserve to be.however, for now, supported."
"agree, negative balance and do not allow termination of character.also any of these would help too: do not allow a character on the same account to buy from or sell to a character on the same account.change display of buy order to show maximum that can be completed by trader (database issues? probably.)change market adding a \"query order\" button to check if the buy order can be completed by the order holder? duh.remove the broker skill. (as a true trader you would never buy more than you could afford. it would put you in the red! plus to trade more you would need more money, similar to risk/reward or skills needed for pvp. grind your a-- up to be a true trader b----.)"
"@op.. supported as it makes this scam to work harder, but won't really help if the scammer does put some work into it (*)do not allow a character on the same account to buy from or sell to a character on the same account.useless.. can be circumvented with"
"i don't support this change for three reasons, although i'm not adamantly opposed to it either, on the condition that the checks don't cause much stress to the servers. no reason to make the gameplay experience worse for all because of the ignorance and greed of few. now on to my reasoning for objecting to this change.firstly, i don't care for the fact that the server has to continually monitor peoples wallet and compare it to their market orders to achieve this. and they will have to do this for every person who has trained the margin traiding skill and every trader and many other characters will have it. seems like a lot of unnecessary work for the servers, for almost non-existant benefit. bad way to use limited resources in my oppinion.secondly, your money isn't being stolen with this. the fact remains, that if they can't cover the trade, you get to keep your items you bought for a price you deemed acceptable. you can't lose anything in the actual trade. what it does is exploit the greed(and bots) of people, to make them blind to the actual value of an item by dangling the possiblity of easy money in front of their faces. you still have the items though, so you can still sell them on to others.thirdly, there is a user based solution to this issue. this is because the scam is partly based on abusing your ignorance about the value of the item. this is basicly just saying to the initial buyer, that there is another customer willing to pay even more for it, so it is totally worth the nonsensical price. the solution becomes obvious. if you don't know the actual value of an item, don't do trades with it. if the item is commonly traded or you know it's value, you can't be fooled by such simple tactics.not supported, and strongly against it, if the extra server load caused by this is anything but miniscule.edit:how exactly do you see the negative wallet thing working in practice? i think you end up either shooting a fly with a cannon or creating a super, man eating mutant fly. if you just put them in to negative, you will heavily punish the scammer for something that is allowed by the rules of the game. if this scam is the problem and deemed as unwanted exploitation, then surely the solution should just be to fix the exploit part of the mechanism. on the other hand, if the intent is to pay the seller from non-existing money supply, as in create the isk from nothing, you create a much bigger problem. you just made it possible to create isk out of nothing. either way you cut it, if you still allow the 'exploitation' mechanic to happen, it's not really a fix to the 'exploitation' problem is it."
"i would like to comment on this statement.ignorance? what ignorance? please enlighten the rest of us on how you are able to look at a buy order and know for a fact if the person who has the buy order up has enough money to cover it?greed? someone puts up a buy order that says, \"hi. i need 50 t2 cap recharge and i want to pay 600,000 isk for them.\" so a person comes along, taking time to move said cap rechargers to the location, to fill the order. and you are saying that guy is being greedy? on what grounds?news flash. the server already monitors everyone's wallet so your \"doomsday day\" theory for the servers are irrelevant.just like people who lose a ship and claim because they mined the minerals for it, it was free so they are not upset. your statement is incorrect. you lose time. any business person will tell you time is money. so moving goods to a station with a bogus buy order cost you the time which means it cost you money.where to begin with this one. if someone is willing to pay a lot more there is several legitimate reasons they might have. one is they might need the items immediately for something. another is maybe they are predicting it will become extremely valuable soon. you are making the assumption that if they are willing to pay top isk for something, it is always a scam which is nonsense.negative wallet was not part of what the op is proposing."
"i agree, even with margin trading, a buy order should not appear unless there are enough funds to cover the minimum buy quantity."
"in case this was for me..meh.. you're right.. i just scrapped two tries to argue against that and it always ends in exploitable mechanics or no use at all."
"fyi \"query order\" button would use almost no db resources because you are targeting a single orderid. when requesting something from a db by a single address look up it takes almost no resources. the wallet lookup is also a minimal single address lookup. (evemon uses it in massive massive amounts) bottom line, <query order> from the market browser window while in the same region as the order would take almost no resources and would solve the blind trader exploit/glitch/scam that this original post addresses while adding a fun human interactive aspect to the game.regarding the remove order trading (fishing as i like to call it) this is almost okay, but that brings up a whole-nother bag of bones. think of how a player is removed from a corp, they have to wait. a market order should be the same way. an order can be canceled immediately within the first hour of creating it, but cancel the order after that and a 1 hour countdown timer starts for the order to cancel. i think 1 hour is sufficient for scammers to get their jollies off given the right circumstances, but also makes the game a little more even in the whole yin/yang thing. placing buy orders would then be more like placing a contract in the sense that you really have to pay attention when typing prices. i digress from that until a later date.no multiple wallets or trading wallets with the red. that would just be a nightmare and confusing to players that were legit. i can already see the helpdesk light up with \"hey where did my assets go! i didnt mean to argghhh ahhh\" loli think we are pretty much on the same page, but i liked to post all the options so we can see the bad ones with the really good ones that make eve a better game for all."
"agree."
"well i like the way this is formatted and that it is so concise so i am going to post it here:simple fix for all: add \"query order\" buttonprocess 1. query order by button <query order> 2. progam checks the order vs the players wallet 3. returns: \"can complete!\" or \"can't complete!\"simple, elegant. scammers get to keep scamming and cautious players get to check the order before getting played. everyone wins."
"i don't think it makes sense to go through these convolutions, since the only way to get the result the op desires is to remove the margin trading skill altogether.the whole idea of margin trading is to leverage large trades using minimal isk. there are high volume traders that use this mechanic to play the game. negating all 10 of my orders while liquid isk is moving in another system will cripple this tool.ccp implemented margin trading for a reason. the op assumes that the only purpose of margin trading is to scam, which is not the case. in the first para of his post he tries to explain how it works, and in the second he says he wouldn't change anything, except make it not work.creating all kinds of cheetah-flip mechanics in a pointless attempt to de-scam a game mechanic is a waste of time and energy. until ccp comes up on the net and says \"margin trading was a mistake and we're removing it\" (a la learning skills) then this mechanic is working as intended.as stated above...there is no scam involved in the \"problem.\" nobody loses anything...the person attempting to move items gets to keep the hardware to sell somewhere else, and the person posting the trade is out only the broker fees. if the person attempting to move the items knows their value, he won't purchase over-priced or under traded items. it's all about doing homework before jumping into a \"limited time offer!! call now!!\" trade.kb"
"wrong. the result i desire was if the person placing the buy order does not have enough isk to cover the minimum amount he wants to buy, the buy order is automatically cancelled. stop changing/spinning my words.a simple solution to this is to cancel your highest bid order on an item to lower the total minimum buy order amount. if you zero out your entire wallet (why? i honestly can't think of a reason anyone would do this unless they are hoping for the bug/scam/exploit to happen) all your orders would cancel because your broke and can not pay for anything you said you would.also by cancelling the largest isk wise on your buy orders is easier to keep track of instead of starting with the smallest ones. if you are a legitimate trader than there really is no issue here, unless of course your hoping to have your order cancelled, in which case a 'right click + delete' works fine too.again, your putting words in my mouth. i never said anything of the sort that the skill is only to scam. the chance would only affect those who willingly decided to go broke all of the sudden. so please, stop trying to derail my proposal by lying.i think you are trying too hard here. there are many things in this game that do not work properly and to state, \"unless ccp says otherwise, it is working as intended!\" like it is the law is being very obtuse.the person that attempted to do the sale loses time, like i said earlier, time equals money. do you deny this?i'm sorry if this proposal goes against the \"good thing!\" you have going, but raising all kinds of fake red flags and shouting the end of the world for trading because of this change is very transparent. thanks for playing."
"because the armor resist hole was moved from thermal to explosive. then nano ships were nerfed. then drones were nerfed, then webs were nerfed, then projectiles were buffed.... basically the gallente ships and weapons systems have remained static whilst the rest of the game has evolved around them, and now they are utterly obsolete."
"supported.the only good use i could find for the hype was as a mining ship."
"this doesn't seem to bother other people anything like it did to me.as i've said elsewhere, its more a matter of being treated as i'm accustomed to by other non gaming companies but perhaps i shouldn't have that expectation (i'm really not that concerned about the sp.. just don't like the way it went down as a matter of principal... especially the presenting the gift as a free remap , and pretending like they don't understand the value differential, or that there were simple fairer ways of doing it..and still can be corrected)......ooops sliding into the gripe mode.if this is what people expect as par for the road and don't see it any differently than a game mechanic adjustment done for the good of the game that effects players differently, well, i'll just readjust my thinking (still , i wish the communications were different)"
"i love nos/neuts. however, unlike all other unconventional weapons in eve, there is no counter. i propose a new low slot module that would reduce the effectiveness of nos/neuts and would maintain a small amount of cap for the ship no matter how many nos/neuts are being used on it. i would also like to see the effectiveness of the module tied to the energy management skill. here's just some rough numbers:meta lvl / nos/neut effect / cap protection 1 / -50% / 5% 2 / -55% / 7.5% 3 / -60% / 10% 4 / -65% / 12.5% 5 (t2) / -70% / 15%again, just rough numbers and would still like to see energy management skill get worked in there somewhere and i think fitting requiremets should be similar to damage control so there aren't a bunch of different sizes required and it can easily be fit on frigates and cruisers.only one module could be fit, like damage control. making it a low-slot module means players would have to sacrifice a tank or damage mod to protect the precious capacitor.ideas, comments, suggestions welcome. trolls, take a ****."
"support. one of the reasons that neut is the most used form of ew is that, unlike other types, it has no opposing mod specifically countering it. sensor dampner has sensor booster, ecm has eccm, etc. stats will need to be balanced, but such a mod should exist."
"i could /support this as long as it does not work on capital ships."
"no, absolutely no cap protection on capital ships. have you ever tried to kill the cap on a thanatos? it already takes forever!!!this mod would have to be restricted to sub-capitals only."
"its called cap boosters."
"take your recruiting attempt to the recruiting thread! don't post it here"
"i can get behind this. don't see a problem with it."
"could be useful."
"say hello to the unkillable ab frigates and cruisers, hope you are not too attached to the idea of bs in anything but huge blobs.let me pose a hard one for you: why?you fail to give a reason as to why you think it should be possible, what niche is it exactly you want to help out?ab/dual-prop frigates don't need help as they already have nos.ab/dual-prop cruisers don't need help as they already have nos and injection.logistics don't need help as they have cap-chains or speed (sorry oneiros, you are not used so not factored in).bcs and bs .. neither of which have any issues with neuting except when ganked/surprised but then a small puddle of electrons wont help much anyway."
"i have a better idea, bring back old school nos."
"i am all for fixing hybrids. but i have not a clue what a hybird is. can it fly?"
"only for a short amount of time if you drop it in orbit over a planet from your cargo hold."
"interesting enough... sig res of guns has no ewar that negatively affects them... but tracking comps affect the direct tracking of guns... so in a way haveing a reduced sig res for guns will help hybrids against tracking disrupters...though i heard that if they balanced out the optimal range and falloff on blasters so that both would be 50% of max range this would help them out a whole lot... which would negate having to give blasters a tracking boost... though i still think a reduced sig res is a neat way to increase chance to hit..."
"last time i checked the apoc can reach out just as far with more dps then the rohk. and the apoc is more agile.as far as boosting raw dps then you end up with a kin/therm beam with worse tracking and reload times.why dont you go and get a basic understanding of the bs sniping platforms?if you did you would already know that you need 15 rohk's to match the dps of 10 apoc snipers.how ever if you inc there tracking they would make a good middle ground gunnery platform for fighting in mid range reather then inc the dps for a kin/therm beam ripoff.edit: think about that. right now if i run into a hybird bs with my bs i go for mid range why? becouse it's out of blaster's good damg range and under rails good damg tracking range. also if they were good at mid range fighting the lower dps and alph and other drawbacks would make more logic. right now they have all this drawbacks but no good reason for them.also range dont prevent the loading of fraction ammo. i dont know why you think it would. rohk 10% to hybird opt per level is right close to apoc 7.5% opt perlevel becouse beams have a longer base opt to start with.edit: as for the sniping caldire at least they have sniping missil boats that are not fail so long as there is not overpowering missil defence going on there gold. amarr's gold and min's are gold. galente just have to roll over with failrails and drone sniping lolz"
"yea, now that you mention the ferox does have this bonus to hybirds opt range on med hybirds but med projectiles get out to the same range hit harder track faster capless with better ammo options and lower fitings cost.funny that.i cant belive your pointing to the deimos as a working blaster cruiser. at least we still have the astarte....i too give you a 2/10 sir"
"hey cluster,there is a ton of forum and response on the idea for the modular pos.i'm not sure if anyone has done it already, but i started a survey to act as a partition. then we have a real asset towards getting this idea into the game. along with supporting this topic, i think we could get real response.you can do the partition-survey at"
"s'port."
"i fixed your links so they no longer go to nullanyway i think this is a great idea (and how the forums should be)"
"hello all,i've been working on the market, and one thing i've noticed is that, while you can change the price of items you already have an order on the market for, you cannot add more of those items to the order. we should be able to change this on the modify order screen.for example, i have a sell order up for vm-15 invulnerability fields, and after running a few missions i get a couple more. at this point, i could either offer both for the same price in separate orders, undercut myself, or wait until the items sell. with the modify orders screen, i could add the other two to the already existent order (paying the appropriate costs) and not fill up another sell order."
"isn't that what hi sec pve is mostly about. 6/10."
"okay remove insurance for the gankers so you can have your realism. also remove concord if there are no witnesses or do not have time to dial out to concord. as soon as you enter mission deadspace you are in deadspace. if someone does not tell on you for what you did then you get away with it. the victims clone has no memory of it happening.providing no one snitches then you have a free gank without concord intervention and are now also able to keep your ship.sometimes murderers get away. insurance won't pay out to a ganker who lost his ship to concord if you manage to contact concord before you lose your ship/pod while in deadspace."
"and when they don't get away they get hunted for life and cannot show their faces. your \"realism\" fails. 0/10we're talking about filling a loophole that's destroying the deadspace mods sector of the economy, to bring it back into balance and prevent mudflation. internet spaceships don't have to be \"realistic.\""
"actually nugget i was responding to someones complaint about realism and insurance. what i would prefer is everything to stay how it is. there are many ways to prevent a gank. i have been a part of them.and we did not always get to kill the guys we were aiming for.not because we were not effective. it was because they figured out a way to stop it from happening.nugget906does not run missions or gank.fail alt troll 10 months old 0 standings."
"1. 100% risk of losing your ship when u suicide gank with it... 100% sure is steeper than low sec/0.0... and it won't stop either even if this goes through. and when u finally realize that, u'll just continuously cry for more nerfs instead of adapting unless it stops completely. we've adapted and u haven't so ain't gonna happen.2. i never asked for a complete spreadsheet, did i? no i didn't. i asked for proof. and u're/he's the one with the burden of proof so either put up or shut up.3. captializing on ppl's stupidity in not safeguarding their assets is not a loophole--it's social darwinism. and all it hinges on is your own unwillingness to adapt.4. fyi, hulk ganking is not for profit but thx for trying.5. if no one loses it, no one's gonna have to replace it, demand plummets, and then the prices. no difference than if ppl kept everything without having to replace it at all, only now -10/0.0 alts can hide easier to avoid a battle they don't want to risk even one loss to.6. if anything is damaging on the economy, it's the mineral faucet."
"i would like to see a 'sticky' post in the forums with links to current and former csm's personal eve online blogs. this should be maintained by ccp. currently it can be difficult for players to find the blogs.pros:1. makes it easy for any csm that blogs to let ccp know about it and publish it to the players.2. by having ccp maintain it, it wont get orphaned when a csm steps down.3. makes it easy for players to find the blogs.cons:1. if not maintained by ccp it may get \"lost\" when a csm steps down.2. requires ccp to maintain it. (more work for them)3. if all outgoing (non current) csm blogs are maintained the \"list\" could get too big to be useful.i am proposing this in the hope of getting some input and thoughts. any improvements or suggestions are welcome. together we can flesh this out and make finding the blogs much easier to find and open yet another channel for the csm to let us know what they think and what they are doing. please tell me what you think about this."
"hrm... reminds me of a promise i made to someone.player-maintained means there doesn't have to be one particular person responsible for the documentation."
".. evegate / *anyone* / blog of *anyone*"
"here's my first attempt at a community-driven csm trail. i've just put links to the important navigation points, so other capsuleers don't need to navigate the morass of pages that describe the csm.now we can leave it up to the csm candidates to link their blogs on their own evelopedia pages (as mynxee has done)."
"added a few links to mine; thanks for doing this work."
"tee hee.. all i did was add a few links in a wiki.you're the one engaging in csm discussions, flying to iceland, facing endless questions from your legion of fans, sorting out csm minutes and managing to maintain your sanity.the evelopedia enables crowdsourcing the task of maintaining all this interesting documentation. whatever tasks the csm can offload to \"the community\", the community should be able to pick up."
"i think almost all frigs need a buff, and dramiel speed needs a small nerfretribution can't pvppunisher is nice but rifter is considered superiorrockets don't seem good on frigs.to be honest i think the only good frigs are minmatar/gallente to begin with."
"thorax with 1x 800mm plate and 3x armor pumps goes at 1184m/s with a mwd.machariel with 3x 1600mm plates and 3x armor pumps goes at 1267m/s with a mwd."
"speed should be closer to that of interceptors, kind of ridiculous that you can't keep up with them much less catch them .. not as if a speed fitted inty will survive long against one the blasted things.and how many got away or killed you instead or are you using some gimmick bait ship? not supported as i do not see the speed as the main issue with the dramiel (or any of the angels for that matter). problem is that fitting room is too lenient on them and allows them to surpass everything else in their respective classes by a huge margin."
"so let me get this straight.everyone supprting a dramiel nerf is afraid of someone with perfect navigation skill, with the absolute best faction mods, and the best implants? you know what, i'm afraid of that person (or i want to be their best friend), too. but not because of a dramiel.hell, i could possibly build a dramiel that could (conceivably) go 9.3k m/s and have an ehp (even damage distrobution) of 4.8k... but that is with the absolute best equipment, implants, and over heating. does anyone think that i (or most other people) could hit anything with 2 small projectiles and maybe a missile launcher (you'd have to time that thing very well).what kind of orbit radius would you be able to get at those speeds? without perfect skills, i doubt it would be good enough to do much damage.so, i just don't get the hysteria."
"it is absolutely wrong to judge ship's effectiveness on \"how many times it gets away\". i can grab a shuttle and be invulnerable in empire. or covert ops frig and be near-invulnerable in null sec. that doesn't mean those ships are overpowered.i was using sniper loki.2 dramiels got killed cause they were dumb enough to sit still (0 traverse), 1 at the gate, 1 at jump bridge.other 3 were ones that tried to tackle me from 30+ km away.dramiel is an elite ship, it is supposed to be good, it is supposed to be better than other ships of same size. just like a supercarrieris so much better than a carrier or dread, the dramiel is much better than a t2 inty.if we allow existence of extremely powerful expensive ships such as nyx, why wouldn't we allow an equivalent on frigate scale? it is wrong to cater only to the blob. small scale fighting needs perks too.the only problem here is the price, which is too low right now. price should be balanced against performance. same way with battlecruisers - they are too cheap for the great performance they provide."
"you got it wrong, if only what you say was the case then there would be no problem, it would be on par with the other pirate frigates which only really start to shine once you throw on some bling (fedweb daredevil for instance).no implants just maxed skills (which all frigate aficionados have):dramiel is so fast that a crusader has to use two(2) t2 overdrives just to match the speed.dramiel is so fast that its ab speed when using two(2) t2 overdrives is near or equal to the mwd speed of t1 frigates.that is the speed part of the hysteria, get it now?"
"actually the gms said that the nano nerf was so that no ship can outrun unbonused t2 warriors which clock in at 5040m/s. yet the dramiel can reach 7km/s with an mwd. wtf ccp?"
"wtf are you doing with plates on a mach?also on topic, theorycraft dram with overheat, snakes and gang boosting will go 15km/s.maybe a tiny nerf to speed, and a bit to cynabal too or the cynabals fittings. cynabal isn't that bad though.imo dram should go fast as interceptors, but still maintain the damage and buffer currently pilots fit."
"i still don't get it... i thought it was: pirate faction > t2 > empire faction > t1.i still don't see a dramiel that is traveling at 8k+ m/s (as is always the premise for the nerf threads) posing much of a threat of damage. even with the tracking bonuses of the ship it's going to be awful hard to hit another target moving at 1.5k or faster (when i was less than a month old i fought a tengu going 6k+ m/s, we could not hit it, it could not hit us.)show me the evidence that this is something more than hysterics, you know, evidence and i can be swayed. show me video of fights to prove your points. they can be from sisi, too."
"theoretical ship is theoretical.the dram is an actual in-game ship."
"daredevil does outrun standard combat interceptors as well, has better tank and puts out damage levels that the large majority of t1 cruisers struggle to achieve.just putting this out here."
"that is probably the reason for your inability to understand what is being said.it was always \"equal to or slightly better\" (=), not just \"better than\". all the other pirate frigs are monsters in their own right, but they require some pimpage for optimal performance and they each have their achilles heel (cap, range, fittings, speed).dramiel has 1.5x the speed of interceptors, drones, af tank/damage, no real fitting issues, has no readily identifiable weakness and works better than most others using a plain named/t2 fit.ps: if you are unable to grasp what it means and/or have not fought/flown the stupid things then no amount of video or diagrams will help you understand."
"only idoits thought the nano nerf was meant to make it so ships were too slow. ccp knew what they were doing and just now players are starting to notice ccp didn't destory speed builds. smart players have been doing it for years, and it's working as intended."
"the nano-nerf was made by ccp to erase elite playstile from small gang warfare.i emphasize the word elite because most of the nerf was applied to expensive faction mods and snake implant set. ccp just made sure that people who spend 1-2 billion isk on their pvp ship did not have significant advantage over people flying 15 mil drakes (after insurance)"
"this is not correct. in order to achieve the performance people regularly quote it to have, you need fitting mods (even with these fittings are very tight), and you especially need faction/deadspace gear.to have it reach the performance some people claim as 'standard' you even need t2 rigs.not so much for the daredevil, that one does actually work splendidly with plain named/t2 (though the base hull is more expensive).if you had flown both (or either one), you would know this."
"that only applies to dual-prop fits, which granted are the most popular, but fotm fits should not be the basis of balance discussions.and yes, the dd works well with named/t2 .. but it becomes godly with pimp. kind of what i said, so 'meh' ."
"**** this!my vigil goes 7.8 when heating (and it aint an expensive factionship)i dont see the problem!! ofcourse there should be a type of ship in eve that is faster than everything else!!take the hyperion! everything looks liek **** compared to it. why should it be dif in this case.ps. if u hate it! train for it!"
"translation: my hysterics and hyperbole are enough evidence and anyone who disagrees is unqualified to comment.all i say is give me some eveidence.i have flown, flown with, and flown against dramiels. i just don't crap myself in fear when i see one trying to kill me."
"there is a reason these fits are popular, because they are the only useful ones.the other ones have little to no extra survivability over t2 alternatives, and actually perform worse in some areas while better in others."
"supported."
"afterburner... hmm, how about this?-cut cycle time to five seconds(with perfect nav skills). cut cap cost accordingly. edit- also cut heat damage done.-the shortened timer would fix the overheating issue.i've also got an idea brewing for solid rocket boosters, but that's for another thread."
"only if they have the tank of a shuttle."
"this."
"danger will robinson! *flailing arms*adding an entirely new type of mini caps, and allowing them free roam in high sec is definitely going to present balance issues. there is a pretty large section of the player base that contributes much of the game's current problems to the fact that it's way too easy to grind crazy amounts of isk in high sec, myself included. i'd think long and hard before i sign off on adding ships that will make level 4 missions even more ridiculously profitable than they already are.i can't even imagine what it'll do to pvp balance - as i have little experience in proper fleet warfare.i'm voting a big nasty no, until it can be proven that it won't have a negative impact on the game."
"if they're going to introduce mini carriers then i think at most they should be able to use one drone control unit which gives them a maximum of 6 usable drones and no fighters. the main purpose of a carrier after all is not damage but support."
"1.0"
"i like this."
"this has most likely been put forward before but i supporty."
"it seems to me that its a little unfare how manufacturing facilities in noob systems are used by non noobs.when you are trying to do the career agents and they give you a bpc to build, but you cant, because all the manufacturing slots have been utilised by someone doing 3 days jobs.3 day jobs are not noob jobs, someone has come back to the station to do their manufacturing jobs that arnt related to the noob career missions.this is really annoying, and it prevents or discourages noob players from completing the noob career missions.i propose that the noob systems manufacturing facilities only allow manufacturing jobs which last as long as the longest career agent bpc job assigned. this would prevent someone using a noob system to build their bs or other non-noob items. it would also ensure that noobs arn't required to trek around a region to get a manufacturing slot.there are other issues with noob systems, ex. vet players going to noob systems, scanning down the discover tutorial sites and stalking the 'proof of discovery' cans and taking the proof so that noobs can scan down the site but not get the loot as a vet has already taken it.... the vet puts the proof on the contract system to sell back to the noob.... this is outright farked up and should be stopped at a game level.ccp should be doing everything it can to restrict the abuse that can happen in noob systems. it prevents new toons from completing their career agents, and even if 1 customer gets turned off by the situation, its one too many."
"i agree but find a different way to apply the restriction. character age perhaps, like that implant that only works until you reach 35 days old.and yes to the other thing"
"fair enough. supported."
"if ccp had any business sense, they wouldn't have tolerated grieving in so many ways, from 2mil wardecs to insanely profitable suicide ganks. each griefer costs hundreds of subscriptions and tens of thousands of dollars. case in point, certain tutorial agents are still sending noobs to lowsec missions, and pirates are still permarunning-smartbombing noobships there. in other words, don't count on ccp doing anything."
"good point, maybe a second amanufacturing facility at each noob station, being only for toons less than 30 days old.they do need to sort out the proof of discovery situation also but i dont hold out much hope for ccp fixing that issue."
"in one way or another, definitely.i remember doing the different nubbie tutorials on an alt, and i had to dart into low sec to do the jobs. bad planning. it's not much to ask that nubs get to do their tutorials quickly and easily."
"ccp bends over backwards to accommodate griefers in order to think out its subscription base."
"manufacturing slots are somewhat limited, which is why players do this. it's not necessarily griefing, just producing goods at the location you wish to sell them.however, i agree that the manufacturing slots in new player arc systems should be limited to younger players only. i support this proposal."
"i dont think this is griefing, just a lack of vision from ccp. ccp often find people using ligitimate methods of play which have undesireable results.in this instance, i agree, make some system to ensure toons <30 days get a manufacturing slot in noob stations."
"while we're tinkering with research slots, why not rework the pos labs a bit to make them truly public and then remove all but a small amount of station lab slots (leave a few for the noobz of course). this would make the research business more player oriented. it would also be a good opportunity to rework pos's themseves (thinking of the dead horse here).though it would remove a large isk sink which would need to be addressed."
"dont take it off topic, this is just to ensure that the tutorial and career missions can be completed, nothing else. research slots are not required for the career missions, manufacturing slots however are required."
"uhm.. how much of travelling around to find an empty manufacturing slot are we talking about here? 3 jumps?i'd rather see that manufacturing jobs installed with this particular bpc cost nothing and the noob in question has to learn to find a station with an empty slot first (science window/installations).tl;dr: not in favor of spoon feeding."
"jeez, don't get your panties in a twist..i only suggested it incase someone of some importance read this thread, ccp staff or csm.. you know, rather than make a whole new thread on it."
"you failed to make any argument. everyone playing this game learns every time they play.preventing noobs from completing their career missions is against the eula, but its not my responsibility to police this, its ccp's. its in their intersts to ensure that noob players become regular players.the current situation is that noobs are a soft target which weak players abuse for their own sense of fun. np with that, but imp i'd rather abuse someone who knows what there doing and win, than taking candy from the babies."
"one way of addressing this issue would be to place \"maximum duration\" limits on assembly lines, thus noob corp assembly lines would take jobs up to a maximum of 3 hours, assembly or logistics stations would allow a maximum of a week, other station types in the middle ground. pos assembly arrays will have no limit."
"when the tutorial missions were introduced there weren't industrial facilities in the starting stations. doing them with a alt i clearly recall going to a production facility 10 jumps from the noob system to produce the famed perpetual motion machine, now, from what i see all the starting stations have a production facility. a noticeable improvement. seeing people that ask on the forum or local how they can produce/research as the slot are already filled i don't think that teaching from the start that science and industry jobs can be queued is a bad thing. adding a \"noob only\" or similar option for some factory will require some serious reprogramming of the s&i system. if we go that way it would be worth going the whole mile and redo it completely."
"the op seems to be half-stepping this concept. if this amount of work is going to be put into coddling new players and creating a false sense of how eve works, then the logical conclusion is to create a \"newb island.\". a system that has a one-way jumpgate, so that it can only be populated by new players with no interaction whatsoever with experienced players.the griefing bit with the mission loot is also a fact of eve life. better to learn such things earlier rather than take a perverted view of how the game works out to the \"real world\" of new eden. you're simply creating the next generation of whiners.kb"
"not an unreasonable idea, subject to the usual implementation gotchas."
"i suspect that the current job time limit of 30 days or 1 run (whichever is longer) is a hard-coded global setting, rather than something that can easily be adjusted for some stations but not others.instead of removing any of the existing slots, i would suggest adding some new factory slots in the starter systems that can only be used for building items required for the tutorial missions. this would probably be easier to do, as there are already lots of restrictions in place on what can be built where."
"is the manufacturing of that noob-thing restricted to noob stations?is the volume of either the bpc or the raw material or the finished item bigger than a noob ship can handle?doesn't the noob learn before this manufacturing how to fly a spaceship, how to dock/undock or how to use a stargate?"
"sounds reasonable"
"i'm not sure that limiting the manufacuring facilities to those less than 30 days old is the best idea, because anyone may do the tutorials, regardless of character age.how about some sort of flag that only allows the slot usage only for those currently doing tutorial missions?"
"initially i was in full agreement of this.but now that i've thought about this... not supporting this.i don't hear of this particular issue... in fact this is the first time.i ran across a manufacturing job from a mission agent... didn't have a problem finding a slot... and it was a noob system.i agree to the problem being a problem... but there is no problem imho.it's not really that hard to find slots.... most manufacturers travel to quieter systems but try to keep close to market hubs for a reason.course my information is based more so in minmatar space... so i suppose it could be a problem elsewhere... even then... i don't really hear about this from say my alliance mates or other contacts."
"this has been proposed many times. and since ccp won't touch pos code with a ten foot pole, this still needs supportin'."
"supported once, supported again"
"supported."
"hm.. thinking along those lines how about this:the speed setting determines how much cap your propulsion mod uses each server-tick? (1hz)> this would make it principally possible to set a lower speed and become cap stable.> it would also make it possible to stand still with activated propulsion mod but not drawing cap (or just some much lower cap usage, like an combustion engine running on idle).>> the speed setting would actually be useful to micromanage your capacitor>>> once this mechanic is implemented it could be reused for other mods to enable micromanaging of your capacitor usage"
"i fly a dramiel for fast tackle in gangs, and there actually is a reason to have your ab/mwd on while sitting still.as soon as there is a gate fire, i turn on my mwd and just sit. when the target decloaks, i can accelerate toward him very fast since i don't have to fight my own inertia and realign if i happen to be moving in the wrong direction when he decloaks."
"just turn it off when you're sitting still... not that hard to do."
"if implemented, this needs to be optional. there are rare situations where one wants the propulsion module running while sitting still."
"i'm usually running with a fixed fleet setup. it would be really nice if one player (ie. the fleet booster / leader) could save the setup - who participates, who has which roles.furthermore it could be nice it we could save more than one setup.when loading a fleet setup, whom ever has loged on gets the usual \"participate in fleet\" question."
"good idea, supported."
"this is a great idea."
"i like the ops idea and this one."
"the idea of microtransactions is that you buy \"store credit\" in bulk (so the vendor has your money) and then you spend the store credit in dribs and drabs. witness lotro's \"turbine points\" which you buy by the thousands and spend by the hundreds.if microtransactions become actual transactions, the costs associated with payment processing will end up becoming larger than the cost of the item itself.to convert plex to a microtransaction currency would be easy enough: add a new faction or npc corp ingame which has the micro-transaction exclusive items available through their lp store, with agents who convert plex into some number of lp.i'm not even sure that breaking plex up into day-passes makes sense from a gameplay perspective. i'd be marginally interested if i could convert a 30 day subscription into an \"x hours\" subscription."
"i'll keep it short.we all know that eve is an intensely competitive game, and i'm not just talking about pvp, so why are we still waiting for a proper stock market? with corporations being in game from the very beginning, and shares too, it's seems like quite an oversight that a market hasn't been created for them to be traded on wider scale.i'm not sure i know enough about the inner workings to make any useful suggestions but i thought it was time for it be suggested at least."
"enron."
"that a no then?"
"i proposed a system a while ago... the thread went idle though...here"
"market expansion?you mean something to deal with all the little and big irks of this aspect of the game?even industry got shafted with their expansion...don't hold your breath or think any kind of support will do something."
"titan dd's should \"chain\" through currently locked targets by the titan. exampletitan locks two dreads with 2.0 mil ehp damage would go to the first dread causing 2.0 mil ehp of damage killing the dreadremaining damage would be dealt to the second target locked, the second dread causing 1.0 mil ehp in severly weakening the dread.this would do 3 mil would be 3 mil damage applied to the first target, then the second, and so forth. this would make dd's more powerful for clearing the field while making them not as powerful as they were back in the time of the aoe dd (which was really fun to try to escape)."
"no, please, let's get rear-view mirrors first!a coworker of mine hasn't stopped ranting since he got the keys of his first procurer about why in hell he could have headlights but no rear-view mirrors.so pleaaaase rear-view mirrors (at least on mining barges), then horns."
"less thinking more pew pew."
"depending on the parameters of your idea with cloaking, i'm not really sure if i like it or dislike it. honestly, i'm leaning more towards dislike since it seems that if you kept mechanics like that, it would make it much harder to break through gate camps..."
"current mechanicsyou can wardec an alliance that has a corp with a hi-sec pos that you want to blow up or ransom.you put the pos into reinforced which exits reinforced 36 hours later.just before 24 hours are left on the pos reinforcement timer the corp leaves the alliance. so you have 24 hours left to shoot said corp, but during this 24 hour period you cannot wardec this corp so as your war ends with the corp the pos comes out of reinforcement and you can no longer agress it without being concorded.this isn't an exploit as stated by gm's from several petitions.ok so you can now wardec the corp and after the 24 hour cooldown period you can commence shooting the fully repaired and often more defendable pos due to them being ready.also they can now rejoin the alliance and repeat the whole process.apparently not an exploit yet again from gm responses.this wouldn't be an issue in low-sec or 0.0 but due to our wonderfull concord officers it unfortunately is since it's in hi-secto me this seems a seriously flawed mechanic and having had a response from 1 csm member to say they agree with this i'd like to hear what others on the csm (or even a dev but i won't hold my breath) have to say regarding this loophole which makes a destroyable asset pretty much invulnerable due to current war mechanics. thankyou for your time."
"i believe that abusing the timers in this way should be classed as an exploit. it is clearly not working as intended.there have been a few suggestions for how to stop this specific issue but the whole wardec system could do with some reworking too."
"walls of text"
"i like aspects of this idea with a few tweaks it could actually be applied to help people move into lowersec areas. the only thing that i can see is that there would be protective postures and who and how gets to buy protection. npc corp memebers would have to buy there own protection and starts small in starter corps and moves up based on your age, capping out at 3 months to a standard fee that everyone pays for in npc corps.player corps should have the ability to pay so much per member at a discounted rate, this would be the advantage for being in a player corp. this protection can project into lowsec, but for limited amounts of time and with significant less force used, maybe something on the scale of npc faction militaries rather than concord. lowsec protection should be based on an hourly rate and should cost much more than a regular highsec protection.people not protected by concord would have a special symbol on there portrait in local, and same for protected memebers in lowsec. the lower your security status the higher amount of isk you need to pay for highsec protection, when it hits -5.0 concord considers you an outlaw an refuses protection. while high security rating characters get a considerable discounted rate. this way a positive security status has an effect on actual mechanics and not just another notch in the belt when you hit +5.0.just my 2 iskac"
"soon(tm) :d"
"can we take issue w/ this?"
"vv"
"support"
"please."
"increased jump range & fuel bay size, why yes that does sound more tempting."
"ooops!i did post this in a wrong place before. i had intention to post here, but not into eve general discussion. that is why i am repeating it here:sorry, i didn't read all tread (too long), but i think black ops need fixing without doubts!according this:"
"1) extend the max rage of the jump portal. (if nothing else the ship can be used as a transport ship best friend) 2) allow covert cynos in high sec. (this will allow high sec war dec's the opportunity to set up recon ambushes in high sec)those two things should give the black ops ship a good role within eve; both in industry and combat.make it happen ccp!"
"as it is black ops can already bring 1000 unscoutable dps, adding hardpoints and fittings would render them really op. i'd really love your definition of respectable dps...the tank sure ain't their strong point but then you just portaled a falcon, and you have the option not to jump in the fight if it doesn't look good. the 1400m/s that my panther does go a longer way to keep it alive than a tank ever will anyway. well yes they are not a progression from covops/recon at all. they're a side effect of capital training for most people. and that's good that way i think.pro-tip : you're a lot sneakier out of system that cloaked in it. i can't remind a single instance of me warping to a target anyway, always jumped to one.as a blackops pilot i don't think there is much wrong with them except perhaps the sin. sure i would be glad if they were buffed (more fittings, more slots, more tank, moar everything) but the covert ops cloak would be of no use on mine."
"i would love the cov ops cloak to be given to the bops, is it needed? not really.a bigger fuel bay, better fuel consumption and longer jump range is what they need, and out of all of those i would settle for the longer jump range.as far as more damage / tank, that is really not the role of a bops, if your standing toe to toe slugging it out with other battleships...something went wrong"
"only the redeemer has 850 dps and 1000 with drones all l5 (decent 80k efh buffer tank, phanter got 900 damage fitted, widow with torps (<30 km) 600, sin 450 drone + 200 rails or 350 neut blaster (no tank at all). i agree with u that some ships are fine damage ( i know redeemer is decent) and slot layout but dont talk like every bo is the same because im gallente and i feel offended if u claim the sin has a good slot layout and a 1000 dpsit surely isnt the drones for the sin, takes too much time to apply damage and sentries are fail due range issues compined with sentry optimal and fall offi would like to add a new fix to them, if u jump to cyno u get -70% cap bonus, thats a pain"
"fail fits i guess. my panther is 1021 dps before overloading for all level v (rf gyros) and 1073 for my actual skills and implants... and it bring an heavy neut too...bigger fuel bay and range while nice would only make eve smaller and the hotdrops gankiers... not sure we want that..."
"the damage a bops can do on its own is nothing compared to the damage it can bridge on top of you."
"love 4 blackops please"
"supported of course"
"yezz please!"
"i've always preferred quality over quantity. one good screwdriver is worth more than any number of lousy ones.best regards,windjammer"
"i mentioned my problem with this in another reply, which is that it makes supercarriers into anti-dread gankmobiles and dreads into anti-supercarrier gankmobiles, and so the capital warfare food chain becomes a circle.some minor tweaking (in particular some reworking of logoff mechanics so that the default option for a supercarrier tackled by a midsized fleet can no longer be to ctrl-q and wait 15 minutes while they try to grind your buffer down) would be fine, but halving ehp doesn't do anything to solve the main issue with supercarriers, that they're unfocused 'anti-everything' platforms rather than a tool for a specific role."
"the catch 22 is always going to be that the moment they nerf sc w/o nerfing titans, titan numbers are just going to explode. yes sc need a defined role. nuking their drone bays to only allow fighter and fb use is a good thing. but hammering them in any other aspect is going to convince people to upgrade to titans. the hp issue is only really an issue in terms of log off mechanics. this is true of all supers in combat and when trapped by small fleets. a 25% reduction in hp wouldn't be terrible, but it's not really needed. rr still continues to be a problem. an aeon with 1 rr can mitigate nearly 75% of an enemy super carrier's fighter bomber damage. this is utterly moronic when other sc cannot be jammed and thus provide a **** ton of repping power.both titans and sc need to be brought back in line. the dread 50% resist boost in siege does this quite well. it reduces the effects a titan can have with a dd on a cap fleet, and it prolongs the survivability of dreads vs sc long enough for them to actually project damage. so it's pretty simple. remove sc effectiveness with regular drones, and give dreads a defensive bonus only in siege. keep the 10 minute siege timer, it's a good negative for dreads to have."
"i do agree with your argument, but i do believe the fix to super caps is in the rebalancing of dreads. though the rr argument i 100% argee with and as i stated earlier if you removed the range bonus would greatly limit the ability to rr as they are big ships and slow to move. also one could give them back triage mode, but change it for sc's,range bonus, not immune to ecm, no drones, no neuts/smarties, and no moving. basically would be a last ditch rep effort or an after combat rep effort, and to effectively rr friendly caps you'd have to remove yourself from the dps chain. problem is any change to super carriers rr ability is negated by carriers and sacrificial triage alts.this is why i believe that dreads need a significant boost, there stationary attack tactics limits ability to chase their target but gives them a large damage bonus. in my eyes this needs to be increased damage wise, by 1 more turrets worth of damage. with tracking to counter moving super caps, and torps/missles that can catch moving super caps and do damage (cause right now pheonix's suck when you start moving as a target.) furthermore their needs to be a reduction to neut range on super carriers by a third this would make them vulnerable to hics with focused points.also just a thought but why not make them jammable? that would be just reducing the sensor strength, it wouldnt affect their ability to be immune to other ecm's but would make them jammable. just a thought though.as lag is fixed sc's will be more vulnerable to smaller ships clipping their claws, this and dreads will bring super carriers into line. at least thats my opinion"
"bff dear friend.sc need ehp changes but titan not need nerf, just one single change.just need to change the titan bridge passage methods.if the fleet want to move to other system, need move with titan to targeted system.now open a titan bridge is too safe for titan pilots.no danger = no loss. this is why titan numbers not decreased year over year. this need to change and not need titan nerf. titan would be move with fleet if the fleet want titan bridge, this is the solution.jump to hostile space would be reduce the titan numbers.titan jump to hostile space with fleet = more dangers for titans."
"removing the jump portal generator is removing 50% of the entire value of having a titan in the first place. it is an unacceptable nerf.the only relatively simpe solution i can see is to make them more expensive and longer to build (including motherships), but this would harm smaller alliances, while not really affecting the large, mega-rich ones too much. so solution is pending."
"no,no,no nobody talk about remove jump portal generator.but change the jump portal generator working method.now titan pilot open a portal and the fleet jump to targeted system, but the titan not need to jump, just left behind at starting system.change titan bridge rule, move titan to fleet command position and jump to targeted system with all fleet members. jump with those pilots who where is at titan within 50km range."
"fixing supercarriers by buffing dreads is problematic because it affects dreads in other circumstances (eg dreads vs subcaps). if every supercarrier was deleted from the server tomorrow, dreads would be more or less balanced, like they were pre-dominion where nobody used motherships and titans were useless against capitals. the only real problems with dreads today are supercap related - that dropping supercarriers on sieged dreads is low risk killmail printing unless the numbers are stupendously uneven or the server craps out randomly, and the fact that a supercarrier's damage output beats a dread when shooting sov structures (unlike the old days of pos warfare) whilst again being lower risk due to the lack of siege mode required. ideas such as siege module resist bonuses or allowing sieged dreads to be remote repped don't just (if even) fix that, they have further knock-on implications across the board."
"boobs are made outta fat?guess it depends on the concentration of macdonalds restaurants in your country."
"lol...yes...a large portion of breasts is fat. depends on the size of the breasts as well though. bigger the boobs the more fat there is. there are glands and whatnot but still a lot of fat."
"come on now, even a certain game made by a certain snowstorm company >.> <..< >..>, has jiggles."
"/support"
"43534.0"
"supported; wiggly boobs ftw!"
"many games have realistic \"rotation\" of the female anatomy simple by having a loop effect. like the poster said hes not asking for doa style can managment as that has a whole console to calculate the jiggle of those mellons.unless the dev team are planing on giving us the ability to walk in station compleatly naked i dont see this being a problem as we will never see \"undergarment\". i dont mean to bring up the \"w\" word but in the \"w\" game should you disrob your character compleatly you have a basic low res set of undergarments and that is all that would be needed in eve.unless ccp starts coiming out with gold plated amarian hooter holders or minmatar duck tape tiety whitys i dont think victoria's secret is gona have a problem. as far as i know when we fly in space we are essentualy naked in a pod of goo with a few cables pluged into are brain, hence we leave the milk jug holders in the fridge hence no need to worry about stacking bonus'sdude its the future, im sure \"modern\" medical technology can keep the globes shiny and firm for us so we wont have to wage another war. that and the fact that most bodys dont live longer than a few weeks so i dont see and realistic amount of time happening to cause said degradation of the females pods.wow i managed to write that much with out saying the word breasts.... doh"
"i support it all the way boobs arent steel"
"viva la revolution! it has begun!!!"
"i came about this >| |< close to quite literally falling out of my office chair upon reading that!thx for the laugh, wacktopia!as a eve-playing woman with breasts that follow the laws of physics reasonably well, i wouldnt mind seeing the same in my favorite game... but yeah, for the love of all things holy, no *doa* style stuff here, okay?"
"funny, i did the same thing. it started off with me training projectile turrets for my myrmidon. (which is a decent enough ship with drone and armor rep bonuses). then decided to screw it and cross train to minmatar completely. it only takes 2-3 days to train to a hurricane (thank god battlecruisers isn't race specific).maybe if enough gallente capsuleers cross train to some other race, ccp will take the hint that gallente ships aren't that great? (i still like my myrmidon though. )(btw i like to add things in parentheses if you haven't noticed.)"
"look on the bright side. the +5% medium hybrid damage implant (zgm1000) is dirt cheap!"
"i would still be far from my dmg output with autos and no implant.better w8 and buy the one for autos, best"
"i<U+FFFD>m supporting a buff to blasters (and railguns).there is absolutely no reason why anyone should use hybrid guns over any other turret-weapon in the game today.things that are bad for weapons are- capacitor usage- short range- low tracking speedhybrids have all these bad \"attributes\" + generally have ships that are aimed at active tanking and are slow.while lazoers also have capacitor use, they are compensated by their long range and good tracking + amarr ships that are generally bonused for passive tanking.acs have a moderate range (longer than hybrids) but are compensated by having fast ships (minmatar) and projectile doesn't use capacitor + they have a good tracking."
"vv"
"i support this idea!"
"buffing hull tanking could possibly mitigate the speed and web problem. two ways: 1) add hull buffer rigs (armor and shield tankers have them, why not hull tankers?), 2) remove penalty to reinforced bulkheads, and buff their percentage increase a little bit (and then provide some sort of stacking penalty to keep them from being op).agree with the overall argument. supported."
"some good ideas. be nice to have them boosted back a bit after they've been hammered to death by the nerf bats.-windjammer"
"qft. drones are treated as a separate ship within the context of receiving damage or traveling from one target to the next. no reason they shouldnt be considered capable of repairing the ship from which they were launched.regards,windjammer"
"supported!!!"
"supported so long as the difference in hight isn't too extreme. ****es me off to see characters that are shin high and others that cant fit through a proper doorway...so yes...max high diff of 1 foot is perfect."
"absolutely agree cutter! good call mate! its going to look ******ed if they leave it! ccp you guys do a brilliant job, obviously! we all play your game! so keep up the good work and do walking in stations properly the first time, eve is based around realistic ideas and environment...not very realistic to have everyone all the same height! \"example\" ...and correct me if im wrong- brutors are meant to be fairly big and taller than any of the others as part of their genetics right?...cant have them being the same height as a gallente then can we? again \"please\" fix this issue ccp?"
"approve, i already suggested that several times at the feedback thread. just i think range would be better in the 160 to 200 cm and, to top the cake, a certain control on shoulder & hip width should be allowed (people are both tall and short, thin and wide).although we could get used to an army-of-clones, one-pod-size-fits-all incarna, it would be quite a loss from excellence. btw, i found the \"suport\" buton. supported!"
"supported"
"acceptable compromise.hopefully, one day we could get bodies with variable proportions (wide, tall, shorter/longer arms/legs). but for now, global scale will do."
"no good reason for it not to be there in the first place. very much supported."
"supported"
"hm.. i didn't support this one already, shame."
"i don't understand why they havn't put this in already?"
"supported"
"yes please"
"is good."
"yes. supported"
"supported"
"supported"
"good ideasupported"
"+1bigger range thou5ft to 7ft"
"i decided on a 1 foot height variance because its a little more realistic than 5' and 7' people. it should also make it easier for ccp to code with regards to character movement animation."
"no dwarves in eve. not supported."
"5' 5\" is not considered a dwarf sir, the worldwide average minimum height is, i believe 5' 5\". hence the reason i chose that as the minimum for eve. fail troll fails. 0/10"
"i want to be short and fat, supported"
"1.0"
"definitely - 100% support!moreover, it should allow adding more weight to character. allow character to have fat bumps on top of belt-line on both sides of body. and give for character possibility to have paunch that is pendulous out on top of belt-line (you know - the result of drinking much beer ;]] ) i'd love to have one for my character very much. just like in rl fatty double chin could be a bonus"
"when did you look at yourself in the mirror last time?when did you look at people around you last time?i mean not \"scanning\" as everybody does usually looking at people around.when i am saying, \"look\", i mean it!"
"support."
"lol, i much appreciate your vote and your enthusiasm. the only problem with the idea of adding things like extra weight is that given the lore that is already in place regarding pod pilots, it is highly unlikely that one of them would have anything other than a reasonable physique, and while i am aware that this is not entirely realistic i can appreciate why ccp would choose not to include it.one of the main objections (apparently) to including variable heights was that ccp (apparently) claimed that it would require extra coding and lots more man/woman hours to modify the animation of our pilots. too large an increase or decrease in height and body weight would require those pilots to walk in a different manner, as each character has a \"weight\" which affects the motion of their bodies as they walk and the way in which their indvidual limbs move.this is why my proposal is limited to just a simple 1 foot variance in stature. it is, as far as i can work out, the minimum amount of coding change for the maximum impact. this is what i hope will push ccp to change their collective mind about introducing this option in a final iteration of carbon character creation before the realease of incarna part one. it won't require a change to the portrait we will already have created and we would just be able to go back in and alter our characters height.as someone famous once said \"the simplest ideas are sometimes the best\". im hoping this proves to be the case."
"doesnt really make sense for it not to be there so /supported"
"supported"
"supported!"
"supported"
"yes, this is a topic which is by no means new, but it is still a highly relevant one, since the topic in question is a key aspect of nullsec pvp as it is today.the problemthe current hotdrop mechanic allows pilots to fit a cyno generator to a t1 frigate, pop it, and instantly jump/bridge a fleet on top of some other fleet or pilot. in its current state, it is near impossible to defend against if you do not have a cyno jammer installed in the system (which is not very often the case).the proposalmy proposal is to balance this by adding a time factor to the entire process, in one of two ways (note that they ultimately would have the same effect, and just present two different ways to achieve it):give the cyno generator (not the covert ops cyno, see below) a charge-up period before activating. during this period, give a set ammount of penalties to the cyno ship, modelled after the penalties to an interdictor when using an unscripted wdf generator. this can be justified by the cyno needing time to build energy, or the like, which takes time and causes drainage of propulsion and defensive systems.leave the cyno generator as it is (instant cyno), but give capital ships and titan bridges a timer after locking on to a cyno, that has to expire before they can actually jump. this can be justified by a jump-calibration process or the like.this would only affect standard cynos and the ships that use them, it will notapply to covert ops cynos and their users, which, due to their advanced state (both of the cyno itself and the ships that use it) would be void of such penalties.i believe this proposal would add balance to fleet pvp, and provide gangs and large fleets alike a way to better deal with hotdrops, without per necessity penalize the hotdropper too much.-----------------------------------------------------------edits: other ideas garnered from the discussion:give jumps a certain transit time, depending on the number of ly to target destination. in effect, this would mean that bridged/jumping ships would indeed jump, spend some time in \"transit\", and then arrive on grid, regardless of whether the cyno is still active when they arrive. just how much time this should be, would need some serious debate.the dec 15 csm summit actually discussed a mechanic similar to this:note however that the context is capital ships, not hotdrops per se. read the full summit summary here: link"
"nr. 1 would just kill hot dropping and i therefore can't support it.nr. 2 is ok i guess, but what timespan are we talking? would caps still be able to jump even if the cyno ship has been killed during \"charge up\"?"
"just chiming in here with a random comment, i was always thinking giving the light dictors a role that is viable even in lowsec would be some kind of cynosural suppression probe.30km radius, masks cyno fields inside the bubble, no other effects. would at least give some kind of protection against the typical lolbaithotdrop."
"good question, i actually thought about this after posting. i guess it can be debated, but my stance is that you can do it in a few, general ways, depending on how much \"rp\" you want to add to it (my belief is that the practical side should be favoured, not rp):if the cyno ship is destroyed before a certain time elapses, the titan(s) / capital ship(s) will lose data needed for jump calibration, and abort jumpif the ship is destroyed after the said time period, ships will still arrive on scene, but (slightly?) scattered from the cyno (though still on the same grid)titan(s)/capital ship(s) only need to lock once in order to succesfully and accurately fulfill the jump process, regardless of if or when the cyno ship is destroyed.i think the last one is the more practical one."
"not supported."
"because?"
"reason: it restricts game play beyond what you are proposing. all i see here is someone touched you in a dark place and you are proposing a change out of personal injury or frustration."
"how on earth does this restrict gameplay \"beyond what i am proposing\"? this is being proposed because hotdropping as it is, is simply not balanced. it is an extremely powerful feature, which simply lacks any effective counter apart from having your own titan and gang on standby to counterdrop, something the majority of roaming gangs do not have. this is not a major nerf (the dropping fleet will still arrive), but it will lend the dropped party an opportunity to respond."
"i would normally not support a hotdrop nerf, but since covert ops cyno isn't covered, supported. hotdropping shouldn't be disabled, but it's fine if it's not cost free. all it means is it will cost isk to hotdrop, as opposed to using a completely throwaway frig. this is how it should be anyway.it does not actually nerf hotdropping whatsoever. only increases the cost. that's a good thing. eve need more sinks."
"hotdropping is out of control and should be severely nerfed. interceptors are fastest sub caps, but still with some scouts in surrounding systems there is no way they surprise you. battleship fleets will take arround half an hour to cross a region.supercapitals do it in the blink of an eye. it just doesnt make sense and isnt in any way balanced. in general the way caps travel is way too fast, in arround 30 minutes they can travel from one side to the universe to the other side, the same ammount the much smaller battleships (and interceptors not that much faster) will require to cross a single region.hotdropping doesnt generate pvp, it gives some easy ganks and then makes sure the fleets that got ganked will never engage anything without overwhelming odds so they can always gtfo. from the two options i am in favuor of option 2, simply because it allows for giving supercaps longer delays than regular caps, which is imo pretty reasonable. option 1 has as advantage that you can make it cyno only appears on overview when on full strength (so jumpable), that way it only hurts hotdrops and less regular movement.btw, if cyno startup timer is used than that last option in your other post is a bad idea, the first option is the only good one, if you are going to bring them on the field you just have to protect yoru cyno ship -> you need a real fleet and then you can reinforce them with caps, you cant use a t1 frig anymore to bring several supercaps."
"not supported, as i have never supported changes to cynos that would make it nigh impossible to hot drop people. the whole goal of a hot drop is pick a ship with good tackling skills throw a cyno on it, and then find something to drop. when the ship opens the cyno it cannot move so its tackle is short term, and yet you still think its unfair? the ships will take about 20 seconds to appear on grid and be combat capable. further more they have to lock you.caps are easy to kill, if you build a fleet with the purpose to bait hot drops and kill caps.finally it add's an undesired drawback to jump frieghter logistics. having to wait where ever you are longer than you do already makes a ship worth 4.5 bil + cargo worth utold mils or bils, sit longer, and jump into more hostile cynos. also makes jumping into lowsec nearly impossible cause everyone kills cyno ships, and if theres a chance that when the cyno ship dies that the c ap will appear off station noone would do it."
"something has to be done about the cyno mechanics. 3 seconds is not enough warning, the hostile forces are unscoutable - no game mechanic exists to know who's coming from where.we need some sort of mobile cyno jammer at least for very limited short ranges such as 25 kmadding strong random factors in combat breaks tactics and strategy - i hope someone in ccp office is smart enough to figure that out."
"i would support delayed arrival of ships that use the cyno and some kind of cyno supressor ability on limited ship types(1 or 2). i don't feel it is necessary to tie the ability to use the cyno on the survival of the ship which lights the beacon. i want cynoing to still be actively used in all kinds of situations, but i want to slightly change the way it is used. basicly just remove the ability to drop a fleet without giving any chance for the ships already on the field to react. covert cynos need not be affected.basicly some kind of delay before the jumping happens or alternatively initiate the jump immediately, but have the ship travel to the beacon with some kind of loading screen simulating the traveling. basicly the loading screen's purpose would be to ensure the ship jumping isn't too vulnerable during the delay. such vulnerability might be a positive thing too, but i'm just throwing it out there for discussion, since i don't have interest in increasing the risk to the jumping ships during the proposed delay.the reason i want a delay is to change it to so, that when a beacon is lit it just informs all the people that potential reinforcements are on route. with the delay the people already engaged would have some limited time to flee, regroup or try to finish things before the reinforcements arrive and ruin the fight that was already in progress. you could even make it so, that smaller ships arrive sooner, so you could still bridge in support fast, but it would take time before the bs and capital blob can arrive on the field."
"i strongly believe that the proper strategic way of hot dropping should be off-grid. cyno your forces on another grid, then warp in your force on target.that would be most fair way, allowing all sides in the conflict to adjust their strategy accordingly.failing that, some other limitation in teleportation speed is in order.if you seriously believe that the current status quo is fair, you just have no proper understanding of what balance means in strategy games. and this is a strategic thing we are talking about."
"i am not sure what you base this on. i have never seen a fleet appearing later than 5 seconds after cyno popping. the locking period is neglible, as a bubbler is usually on field within moments notice after cyno pops. the only exception i can think of would be dropping into a heavily loaded system (did this a week back myself, took us almost 20 seconds to load grid).granted, but the majority of small pvp gangs would be hard pressed to do that, and no sensible corp/alliance will drop capitals without subcap backup, unless they have near perfect intel on what they are dropping on.what if the timer was 20 seconds? is that waiting forever?as for the second point, as stated near the beginning of this discussion (post 4), it can be debated just how the mechanic can work, so the problem you see here is easily worked around."
"it seems strange that logon ganking was declared an exploit and after ages fixed... then ccp introduced an easier ingame version of the same thing wtf."
"i've suggested changing cyno mechanics before somewhere many many many times.just suddenly dropping capital fleet or bridging 20 battleships on target just doesn't make sense. i personally like idea of just locking jump drives on large celestial objects like stations, pos's, stargates, planets, moons... it would also enable jumping without 2nd account, for daredevils.definetly cyno which you can place precisely and immediately jump to is a bad thing. :/"
"that's just it, use cov ops cyno, and there is no difference in gameplay whatsoever. use regular cyno in a throwaway frig, and you get what you pay for. all this means is that hotdrops are no longer cost-free."
"hot dropping capital and super capitals breaks rr bs gangs, and ruins the game for everyone who is not in an alliance that can afford to have counter-hot drop fleets on standby 24x7. the attitude of, \"super caps are easy to kill if you have the bigger super cap blob\" is foolhardy - it does not lend itself to properly balancing the game for all players.wandering around with a jump freighter where there is any danger at all is foolhardy.the delay necessary to push hot dropping out of the instant-iwin niche it currently enjoys, is only about 15 to 25 seconds. some ships already enjoy a bonus to the cyno duration so all you need to do is make sure the ship lighting the cyno can live for 30 seconds while the target is tackled.i would actually prefer to see a combination of the two proposed mechanisms. first, the cyno is not available to jump to until it finishes it's first 10-20 cycle, and then larger ships take longer to transit to the lit cyno. a few seconds for jump-capable sub caps (bobs, jf), ten seconds for capitals and twenty seconds for super caps.this delay at least allows time for non-capital fleets to gtfo or call for assistance. cynosural jumps should provide a means for controlled & planned deployment of assets, not a means to react to targets of opportunity with overwhelming force."
"why do you assume im feeding him?-windjammer"
"i also thought this when going to vote. it pains me to admit that i do indeed care less about the addition of a new starship than losing another minute of my precious life to that site. it really doesn't need yet another reason to pervade popular culture like the common denominatorial rash that it is.yes, i use facebook, yes i use it to ***** and whine about my 1062 friends (i hate them all, and know even less) but please keep eve sacred like the precious gem of unadulterated wonderfullness that it is.it is the subscribers of eve who sponsor eve, not some pushy door-to-door salesman's wetdream.thanks :)"
"**** facebook"
"i have to agree with this.ccp you are wrong on this one, we heard great stories at fanfest about eve gate, your interest in mobile platforms and linking it all together. you show great visions about technology and where ccp wants to go and then you go to facebook for this. act like the technological leaders you claim to be. facebook to advertise, sure. facebook for what should be inherent ccp....not so good."
"qft and ditto.-windjammer"
"i personally don't agree with most of the listed suggestions (but that is all they are is a personal opinion).however, i definitely agree that we should know more about what is outside of the station. doesn't have to be much, just a little would be nice."
"it is indeed to easy to get information in eve but eve is too old to change that now"
"not at all"
"remove local eh? we all know where this is going..."
"you didn't read the thread, so you have no idea."
"currently it is well known that are beloved ship class the battleship has more or less been replaced by the battle cruiser both in affordability and average firepower, with bs having a little more but not by much.there have been many threads about how to fix this but unfortunately swinging the nerf bat never works out well and we all can at least agree on that. my idea is simple by combining a little t3 technology with regular battle ships each ship receives a battle bridge section, not enough to require modification of materials for construction as where not replacing whole sections of the ship. also unlike true t3 ships there is only one per ship and any bs can fit any battle bridge.every ship comes equipped with a default bridge that can be replaced but not removed. think of it like those combat games where you can give your guys a brand shiny new gun but if you take it away he still has his old pea shooter from the start of the game.additionally at this time there will be no visual effect when changing your bridge.lastly most bridges have a passive/active effect setup when you install the bridge x things happen, and when you activate the bridge more things happen.ideas for sections are as follows.default bridge - this is the default bridge that exists if you don't install a better one, its a replaceable but not removable item and simple allows battleships to do exactly what they do as of current. does not have an active modepoint defence bridge - this bridge is designed to reconfigure the battle ship to intercept smaller targets while giving up its ability to effectively deal with larger targets. when installed, all small turrets/launchers gain a 50% faster fire rate but the ship loses the ability to equip medium and large weaponry.when the bridge is in active mode any small turret/launcher will automatically attempt to use its shots to block shots by other hostile ships against you or your friends. in this mode you cannot lock hostile targets and shoot them as all your weapons are focusing on disrupting incoming fire. this mode takes 5 seconds to cycle on or off and you can warp in either mode.***devastator bridge - this bridge is designed to configure a battleship to fire one super powerful shot instead of multiple shots. when installed to a ship the ship can only fit one turret/launcher but that single turret deals 8 times more damage. but tracking is reduced to the point that anything below curser class is a garneted miss while bc up are still viable targets.when in active mode the ships speed is reduced by 80% and its damage is increased 300%-500% with tracking taking a further hit making it only really effective against capital class ships. lastly it gets a 25-50% bonus to resistances; it takes 5 seconds to chance modes. you can not warp while in active mode.for an easier graphics standpoint any shot from a bs equipped with this bridge comes from ship center and not a rendered gun point.bombardment bridge - this bridge reconfigures the battleship into a sustainable bombardment platform. when installed the battleships speed is increased by 150% and its agility is increased. it is however unable to fire any weaponry.when in active mode the ships speed is reduced to 20%, it gains a 40% faster rate of fire and 20% bonus to tracking. this system takes 15 seconds to spin up so to say as well as cool down and you cannot warp while in firing mode. *** the fluff behind this is pretty simple fire a shot to knock the others accuracy enough to cause a miss. also as it does not require a lock to do its active mode it gives a layer of protection that ewar cant take away.original post here"
"there is a dirty little truth in eve. many of us know about its existence. a small few actually exploit it. in recent months its been an increasing topic of conversation in the eve community with articles on eve24 and forum threads in kugutsman. this truth is the existence of players who use bots and how potent is their effect upon the way we all play eve. i have a proposal that will first describe how the existence of bots is a problem for all of us, and then go on to describe what i think is an elegant solution to fix the problem.why you should care about bots:bots come in three main \"types\". the most common are probably the mining bots. if you type \"eve online mining bot\" into google it will produce thousands of hits. you will notice that there are several programs and a few software companies that charge $40 to buy a copy of their mining bot programs. if they can make a business selling this, they have probably sold their product more than a few hundred times. the links to free programs have been downloaded over ten thousand times... this tells me there are probably thousands or even tens of thousands of mining bots in eve right now. messing around of eft, you can get a single mining bot to easily generate 1500m3 per minute. at current jita prices running 23/7 mining veld that makes a billion isk/week. a solo miner in high sec can go largely unnoticed clearing the preferred belt or two daily. the sheer amount of minerals these players produce has an overwhelming effect on the mineral market. most players who like mining find themselves discouraged that their minerals have so severely depressed value. perhaps more worrisome is the ratting bot who is positioned in a system with enough roid belts and simply claims bounties all day and night warping to belts and killing npc's. the people who sell these programs claim they generate 40mill isk/hr. that is about 900mill isk/day. this is a problem because it injects staggering amounts of isk into the eve economy, causing inflation and devaluing all the isk that everyone else (self included) works hard to get.how to stop mining/ratting bots:the solution is very simple and stops ratting and mining bots at the same time. all you have to do is stop respawning roids in belts. when there are no roids left, the belt itself despawns. to provide the supply of minerals needed for the eve economy, just increase the number of grav sites by 10 times and make them easier to scan down (maybe higher sig stength). without roid belts and an endless supply of npc's or roids that can be found using simple bookmarks, then bots will have a much harder time getting to the right places where you can mine or kill npc's.from a storyline perspective, roid belts never made sense to me... you have these stories that suggesta mystique of mining for these roids, finding them and extracting them is a rare thing that makes you rich and drives you to take risks... but you have an endless supply of them that just re-appear every day? also consider that every day sansha (supposedly a genius mastermind) sends a few hundred thousand of his minions to these roid belts so that players can blast them and claim bounties? same goes for all the other pirate factions.the very idea that effectively limitless amounts of \"rare\" minerals appear every day in places around the universe and that hundreds of thousands of poorly equipped disorganized minions go to the same places to die every day in wave after wave after wave is silly.pro:stops all ratting and mining bots.con:requires mining characters to scan a sig or take a mission in order to mine.other:encourages players to work together more, since the roids in mission spaces may be more desirable.makes better \"sense\" from a story/setting perspective."
"it's been suggested before. macros would just scan at the start of the day, bm, and leave macro running for 23 hours. it wouldn't actually solve anything.the reason 90% of eve playerbase (highsec, carebear) don't care is because they were told all the grieving and tear farming is legitimate part of the game. eve is the only mmo where this is the case. if they are forced to tolerate things that directly harm them, why would they rage about something that does so indirectly, in a intangible way? bots in other mmos provoked far greater reactions in the user base precisely because of this."
"i support this!!!!!!!!!+1this is something that i was thinking... :)and i think this shuld work...and i would add one more thing... maybe to make npcs that guard belts faster, smarter, stronger and that they warp scramble... real ppl will need to put some extra defence on ships and use drones to kill them before warping out... ppl in smaller ships will warp out quicker then hulks so new players will be safe... or ppl will mine in groups with defance ship...if npcs can warp scramble macros that will make them much less cost-effective becouse they will stuck in belts or be killed if they dont have defence at all...p.s.and about scaning in the morning and boting all day...well i think that it can easy be solved in the way that when there is no one left in the belt after some time the belt itself despawns and respawn on the other place and need to be scaned down again..."
"i thought about if macro's could scan, and it's a valid concern. it just seams that the scanning interface is substantially more complex than simply mining, so it would be more difficult (possibly even prohibitively difficult?) to automate the scanning process. more likely players would scan a site and set the macro to mine it while they are gone. but that is easily prevented by just not supplying a site with that much ore... if a standard high sec grav site has enough ore to keep one miner busy for 3 hrs then you won't be able to mine all day and night with one sig scanned in the morning after dt. not to mention that this suggestion of removing belts will completely eliminate all ratting bots, which generate enormous amounts of isk for the rmt world (according to recent interviews on evenews24)."
"the easiest way to stop a botter in 0.0 is to put a cloaked alt in localcan you imagine all of 0.0 bot free? make ccp put cloaked alt chars in every 0.0 system"
"dynamic belts are a very old idea, ccp themselves have spoken about the possibility several years ago.if you really want to mess up bots then make the sites small enough to keep a high rotation rate (exploration system for sites) so you have scan repeatedly throughout the day.benefits of using the exploration system, besides the respawns, is that they will move around so there will no longer be a monster system with xx belts.adjust size of the sites to make it worthwhile for legitimate corps while at the same time acting as a wrench in the bot machinery (few hours worth for a hulk should suffice per site).caveat: bots will always be here. the best we can hope to do is make it as bothersome to program one as possible to cut down on their use."
"your defeatism is showing.if a miner bookmarks a site, who's to say that the site will still be there 10 hours later? presumably other miners will be looking for grav sites too?otherwise, i agree with hirana yoshida."
"this is a great idea. it solves both problems and adds realism to the game. there is already a scanning tutorial and free skill books for it in said tutorial. there is really no excuse not to do this. 100% supported."
"having been on a few roams through neut/red 0.0 space, i don't think the scanning mechanic is beyond the capabilities of some bots. either that or someone runs around and scans while his bots chew up the things he finds. much of the suspected bot activity i have seen is in scanned sites.well, that and hauling missions. definitely tons of bots running hauling missions. a couple friends and i harassed one hive of bots in low sec cranking on hauler missions for maybe 2-3 hours until our sec status was shot. didn't stop the bots. killed a couple hauler ships on one character alone and it would just keep grabbing a new bestower and continuing on."
"i 100% agree with the entire op.it would also be nice to have more control over the graphics engine. just tick boxes for \"dont render nebulae\" and stuff like that"
"maybe not, but some neut logis there too."
"i agree with this last part. the idea of shaming someone to not do something that is within the rules is suboptimal. your attempts at shaming may just be seen as delicious tears. if a mechanic is stupid enough that people should be shamed into not doing it ccp should change the mechanic. if you rep someone who cant jump or dock due to agro you should have that count down too. (that way you could still rep someone when they are not in a fight) you should also be seen on killmails. and imo you should have gcc/concord if you are not at war with or have killrights with the people attacking the pilot you rep. you can still stay at 60-70 km and rep people. they may want to increase the range of the reppers on these ships, to put them more in line with ewar in gneeral. but these agro mechanics are stupid."
"opposed, this is market pvp."
"bad......this is what you're asking.\"everytime i view a market window i'd like eve to extend that database query into other tables, pulling more information for each and every line item on the market thus lagging the whole system to death all so that an escrow can be confirmed before any item is purchased.\"unneeded lag for a case that isn't the most common.no thanx."
"thats not at all what he is asking. what he is asking is that when the scammer empties his wallet, the system looks at his orders, and cancels any order that he cant cover a single minimum-unit-value's worth of. it has nothing to do with when you open the market, but when the scammer empties his wallet."
"you both missed it.the requested feature would not make the query unless a user specifically requests it on an individual order.nothing would change in the way broad queries are run on the market currently, this is a button or \"right click selection\" that only works on a single order at a time and only when requested by a user in the same region or buy range of the order. which ever is easier to code into the game.and as for the previous poster previous to this quote, if this is market pvp then i want a gun to fire back with buddy.."
"against. these orders stand out a mile for a diligent trader who knows the market. this is market pvp and there are several ways to profit from countering these orders. adapt."
"going to give this a thumbs up. if nothing but for the tears of those who currently exploit this bug.i also find it rather hilarious those screaming how there are several ways to know if the owner of the buy order has the money in their wallet to cover the minimum buy order or not. yet they never list any at all..."
"agreed.i saw this scam in jita local and felt powerless to warn others. this scam is completely passive and undetectable.whiners who use this exploit should lose all of their isk. work for your isk. adapt."
"it's not a bug... nor is it an exploit.guess what? margin trading is used daily in the real world. the only difference between eve and the real world is that in the real world, if you don't have enough cash to cover the margin and the deal goes south, they come and take your house.in eve they just cancel the buy order, and you get to keep the stuff you were trying to sell to sell to another buyer.so let me see if i understand this:1) you have 200 units of widget a to sell.2) you try to sell to xxd@rthv@d3ruberleettradebotxx - cause it seems like a really good idea since he's paying about ten times more than his next nearest competitor.3) guy with stupid name can't cover the cost, so the order gets cancelled and you lose...nothing, except whatever time you spent mentally spending all the isk you failed to make, since you still have the 200 units of widget a.4) you go sell widget a to someone else for less of a profit (you did do enough research to insure you could still make a profit right?)i fail to see how someone with even a minute amount of sense can actually lose money on this - except by being suckered in by greed over a \"sure thing\".edit:for those of you uncertain about why \"sure things\" should be handled with the utmost care and even more diligence than normal, please go watch the first half hour or so of lucky number slevin."
"op's proposal will not cause any appreciable lag, because the market orders only need to be checked for that character when money is transfered away from that character. alternatively, the orders can be checked every our. te problem you are describing is not an issue. i fully support op's proposal, if the buyer is incapable of paying for the good, he should not be on the list.half of the players are not even aware of this mechanics. well, until i can do that, this should be removed."
"there is no bug and there is no exploit.if you try to sell to someone who doesnt have the money to complete there buy order then the order gets cancelled and you keep your items.the fact that you just brought the items off a sell order for vastly inflated prices is entirelly unrelatted to the buy order and is due to your own gullability.its your brain thats bugged not the game."
"where on the buy order does it list their name?the bottom line is there is no balance between the risk and reward aspect of the scam/bug/exploit. it is just straight up profit. no risk at all. and before you start waving your broker fee flag around, that is peanuts, a drop in the bucket compared to the insane amount of isk you make exploiting the bug.people in here like to throw the word greed at the person trying to complete the order like they are some evil bastard for selling to the highest buy order. what about the person exploiting by zeroing out their wallet and not honoring their buy order? you act like he is a saint.i am not proposing that the person putting up the sell order lose his house if he can't complete it, just simply that it is automatically canceled when he can no longer cover the cost of the minimum buy amount."
"supporting recycling back to previous tier."
"the main problem i have with this is most stuff you make is not easy to reverse so to say.like how am i going to turn a pile of reserch notes back into cows and what ever else. if i have allready cut up the cow or reduced it to a pile of goo i dont think im getting it backor how am i going to take a vial of vacine and get a virus out of it i personaly dont see how being able to recycle pi materials is going to help and honistly if you are going to buy those pi materails that are so cheap put them to use by 1 billion units of water and ionic solution and produce coolent. having some one sell you something at 1/4 regular cost is not a problem its an advantage"
"i support wyke's proposal that some sort of pi recycling/reprocessing should be made available.an exact mechanic would need to be worked out, quantities balanced, etc. however, this is a necessity.t2 components can be retrieved from reprocessing t2 ships, etc. cap components can be retrieved from reprocessing capital ships. minerals can be regained from reprocessing cap components or anything t1. salvage can be recovered from reprocessing rigs.we should be able to retrieve pi products from 'higher' tier pi products. especially if they are an end product used for things other than pi. i.e> coolant, robotics, all the p4, etc."
"bump"
"anybody else interested in this?or do i have to panda to the masses and cry: 'afk cloaking', or 'nerf lvl 4s' before anybody gives this idea more than a cursory glance?do the csm care about interesting new game mechanics, or getting voted in via supporting mass whinging? ok.... silly question but still..this idea generally is liked.. should be looked intoce"
"marauders, unlike ordinary battleships, have a lowered sensor strength. with recent changes to faction ships this became unnecessary as most faction ships outperform marauders. there is no reason to keep them out of pvp. secondly, why is caldary e-war privileged (again!)? why are they only weak to jammers?is does ccp have some \"caldary e-war only\" policy? if they should have a weakness, they should be weak against all e-war types.solution one: bring their sensor strength up to normal value.benefit: since prices of faction ships spiked like hell, we might start seeing marauders in pvp. diversity is always good. solution two:give them an x% vulnerability to target painters, stasis webefiers, warp disruptors, sensor dampeners and every other type of e-war. if they are to be weak to e-war, they should be weak to all types of it, not just caldarysolution three:give e-war weakness a racial flavor. each marauder would be weak against e-war type of their own and racially, and strong of their enemy's e-war. just like with t2 resists. golem would be undampeneble but easy to neut and jamm. kronos could be sensor dampened by one mod, but would be impossible to jamm. so on, would make things interesting. conclusion: make ccp change things or we shall rise in mutiny! i prefer solution three because it makes things most interesting. it really is about making things fair. we=e will prevent ship-class from becoming redundant, spice up pvp and put caldary e-war back in it's place. these are all very positive effects. please support the motion. to falcon pilots out there: please troll here and keep it on the first page. i will help you by nucking whatever counter arguments you bring up."
"once upon a time the way to redeem lp was via lp offers iirc.agent would make an lp offer and you either accepted or declined it and had to wait for the next offer.this was a pita and was replaced by a lp store which worked much better.people could choose there lp offers rather than waiting a random amount of time for a decent or the right offer to come along.i think the same type of logic shift would be useful for missions.instead of the get mission offer ( accept / decline ) wait for 4 hours etc if second decline pita.when you ask for a mission from an agent you are presented with a list of current missions.5 missions are in the list as a base.10 missions in the list with max effective standings.you can now select the mission you want to do from the list.on completion / failure the mission is replaced with another random mission.no need for offer decline wait 4 hours get fecked off etc.unaccepted missions would get replaced by new random mission after 24 hours."
"supported, i would definitively like to see the possibility to choose missions to a greater extent than now."
"smotftw"
"it seems to me that this would encourage mission farming, as there aren't all that many missions at a given level. i would like to see this be skill-based and standing based, so you may have the standings for 4 options of missions but only have the skills for two (or vice versa). having one base mission and more based on levels of a skill would probably expand the mission runner's ideals, but the skill should have a decent multiplier, like rank 6 or 8.it sounds like a good idea overall with just a few tweaks, but i believe the 4 hour limitation is there for a reason, as ccp doesn't seem to like people running missions. for now, marginally supported."
"what this would really end up doing is becoming a workaround for border agents giving lowsec missions after tyrannis patch. it would spread out carebears and undo some of the damage tyrannis introduced, therefore, supported."
"bump for more support needed for caldari justice."
"em/explosive/kinetic*"
"ya i just resubbed, and was like \"hey why did i even stop in the first place?\"then i started fitting ships...thought about re-rolling/training for other ships, but really im nearing 10m sp/rage"
"this received a lot of positive feedback from the features and ideas discussion forum so ive decided to post it here also.most of us fall within two camps:those who love 0.0 local, and those who hate it. to me, the current state of local isn't very satisfying and neither is the prospect of completely removing it, so i propose a change that would be a small step: making local a sovereignty upgrade.basic overview:the mechanics are simple. unclaimed 0.0 space does not have local chat; however, upon claiming a star system, the holder can immediately install a communication beacon on the infrastructure hub. the beacon creates a local channel within the solar system that everyone automatically joins and cannot leave. the beacon is created in a predetermined bookmarked spot in each solar system and can be warped to via overview.so what does this mean for pirates/terrorists/gankers?this communication beacon is very fragile. a single battleship shooting at the beacon could disable it within fifteen minutes. upon destruction of the beacon, the system becomes \"dark.\" a \"dark\" system no longer has local chat and acts similar to wh space. this remains so until the sov holder repairs the beacon again.a small gang could roam enemy systems, destroying beacons as they went. these systems would become \"dark\" and its inhabitants would be easy prey. a single raid may not score very many kills, as all of the inhabitants would still flee upon seeing you in local; however, under a sustained campaign of raids and roams, you could easily catch enemy ratters, miners, and travelers off guard in \"dark\" systems. it offers a lot more to those who are determined.so what does this mean for sovereignty holders?this change is not completely one-sided for the terrorists. there are benefits for the carebears also. the catch with communication beacons is that the owner can choose to turn off them off at anytime. upon turning off a beacon, the system becomes \"dark\"; however, the beacon can always be onlined immediately.imagine if you are about to stage an assault on a neighboring sov holder. your fleet forms up in one of your own star systems; however, as many of you already have experienced, the enemy already knows that you are coming long before you ever reach their territory because of scouts watching local. now imagine if local could be turned off. you could turn off local chat on all of your neighboring systems. your fleet could form up and travel stealthily. of course your enemy would be suspicious at seeing all of your beacons turned off; however, he does not know how many ships you have and where you will strike. in addition, you could send groups of covert ops ships to pop the beacons in your enemy's territory further adding to his confusion. scouting by visual confirmation becomes more important.have you ever felt frustrated with terrorist gatecamps? a group of terrorists camps one of your gates. as soon as you get a fleet ready and jump into the adjacent system, the gatecamp immediately scatters because a scout on the other side raised the alarm. its almost impossible to catch them but what if you could turn off local? if local were turned off in the adjacent systems of the gatecamp, a fleet could bounce them at anytime.the uses for turning off beacons are nearly endless for sov holders. if you are planning a fancy mining op, you could turn off the beacon in the system to conceal yourself; however, you risk being jumped. its a trade. no one knows you are there but you don't know if anyone else is there.-----to be continued."
"edit: doh posted with my altan example scenario:here is how i envision this system playing out:imagine that you are a generic 0.0 permanent resident. you log in and immediately glance at your intel channel. it lists in the announcement:the following systems are dark: (system names made up)- jkl-9h- mnb-7n- zw-8utravel through these systems at your own risk!naturally as a generic 0.0 permanent resident you would take care to avoid them but if those dark system contained the only nearby outpost, your corp pos, your alliance jumpgate, or the system was located in a pipe, you may find yourself going through them anyways. some systems are prime targets for knocking down communication beacons.now let us imagine that you are faced with a dilemna, you need to do x but to get to the location of x you have to go through a system that is dark.you really cannot wait so you decide to ask in local, \"jkl-9h status?\"and then you get the response, \"i went through a few minutes ago, didn't see anything on the gates.\"so you then decide to jump through. the jump into the dark system and hold your cloak. you see nothing on d-scan so you uncloak and prepare to warp. but suddenly a red recon uncloaks next to you and points you. oh noes ! a few moments later, a gang of red ships warps to the gate from their distant safe spot . life can be cruel .in short, the average resident is still fairly safe; however, there can be times where extensive red activity can make things extremely dangerous.summary (tldr):unclaimed 0.0 systems do not have local. upon claiming, an alliance can immediately anchor a communication beacon for a fee. this beacon grants local chat to the system. the beacon does not have a lot of health and can be destroyed very quickly by a very small gang. destruction of a beacon removes local until the beacon is anchored again. the sov holder can choose at anytime online or offline the communication beacon at will. this can be used to great effect as a concealment or defensive tool.discuss:"
"i cannot support any solution that does not remove local from npc 0.0 regions."
"i see no reasion this wasent already implimented. the loss of standing from declining an agent mission combined with the long timers upwards of 4 hours was implimented to prevent players from farming the most desirable misions. the down side is that players cannot decline faction based missions that will negativly impact empire standings. i propose to ballance the decline timer by making it reset when you sucessfully complete a mission from the agent in question. this will allow you to decline multiple faction based missions more eaisly as the next mission will count as a blank slate"
"first to the frigate/cruiser thing: if ab frigates with nos already counter neuts, how exactly will they suddenly become unkillable when fitting mod to counter neuts?and secondly, i find it saddening that active tanking is so uncommon on a pvp ship that it doesn't even occur to you that such a mod would be a huge buff to it. let's see you try to fly an active armor tank mwd'ing blaster ship against anything in your size class that has even a single neut"
"without need to be in nos range you get higher speed which makes tracking tanking easy as pie.without nos you free up a lot of fitting room (on a frigate) that can be used for more damage/ewar.i pretty much exclusively fly active tanked laser boats so am well aware of the feeling. but lets say this module was fitted; you lose a lowslot (-tank/-damage) for 10-15% 'neut secured' cap .. now cycle your mwd once and see what happens.you won't be capped out as such, but mwd goes inactive and guns/tackle become dependent on natural recharge at 0-5% (which is sod all) = no change.you are better off fitting a capacitor relay."
"nos used to be the best counter to neuts, till ccp nerfed it into uselessness.now people sometimes fit neuts, but barely ever nos.cap injector is the traditional defense against neuts. it works well enough.there was a neat idea once to use smartbombs as defense against neut/nos, so activation of smartbomb would cause damage to anyone neuting you, and maybe have some other protective effect."
"no, the farther away you are the easier it is to track you. it takes less tracking to hit an orbiting inty at 15km than the same inty at 5km with the same weaponbattleclinic doesn't have anything besides one geddon you lost a long time ago. you have this evidence on another character? what (besides possibly a legion) armor tanking active tanking non-frigate hull with lasers do you fly?i was more interested in the -% neut effect the op's suggestion has, rather than protected cap as such. 15% protected cap isn't going to do a lot of good unless you're using capless guns"
"sum nos/neut resisters can be added in to the damage control or if ships had inherited resistants to them with variable effects depending ship class and faction"
"isnt this basically what cap boosters do?"
"do shield boosters and armor repairers mitigate incoming damage?"
"in the same sense that fof missiles and drones \"counter\" ecms. eccm is the direct counter module of ecm, rest are workarounds, same concept as cap booster vs neut. the idea is introduce a direct counter module for neut, which decreases its effectiveness, since direct counter-modules exist for all other forms of ew."
"it's a bad idea because i think so."
"supported./sarcasm [on]: who need this mod? fly matar you idiots! /sarcasm [off]"
"i skimmed through and was gonna say \"should be only able to fit one!\" but then i re-read and shat my pants at how completely awesome and perfect this idea is.only thing is i think meta 5 should be 40% not 70%, and i think cap protection should be 10% tops."
"hello everyone!this is an issue that we (my corp) have discovered while joining in on one of the incursions within amarr space.while there were too many neutrals in system , we tryed to make an overview tab so that only the dangerous pilots would appear (and the npcs ofc):-kos (kill on sights)-pirates -low security status pilots-wartargetsthe problem is , being a militia corporation, we have both corporate wartargets and militia wartargets.the first , we have no problem with. the latter is a bit trickier :we are unable to include the militia wartargets on the overview without having the myriad of neutral pilots too. we think it has something to do with that the militia wartargets have neutral standing towards us.is there a way to solve this problem that we didnt know of? or is it something that is just impossible?my request is that ccp be made aware of this problem (or am i posting it where it shouldnt be? :p)"
"this probably should be in the test server feedback forum...since i don't do militia i would not have any firsthand experience with what you are referring to but it does sound like a problem that needs to be fixed."
"the stupid glitch of fw targets appearing neutral existed for a long time and as far as i know, it was never fixed. be especially careful whenever u're in a high sec system bordering low sec 'cause that's where they usually \"ninja gank\"."
"someone else being just as bad at math as you doesn't make your math any less wrong.interestingly enough i took and passed both college calculus and advanced linear algebra, pretty good grades too... have you finished highschool? i find your very poor grasp variable mathimatics somewhat amusing, i suppose i'll humor your grade school level of ignorance yet again.hit chance = ((1/2)^(((transv/(range*tracking))*(sig_res/sig_rad))^2) +((max(0,range-optimal))/falloff)^2))trackingmodifications = all tracking effects stacked with stacking penalty, etc.tracking = basetracking*trackingmodifications*yourtrackingchangesig_res = signatureresolution*yoursigreschangehit chance = ((1/2)^(((transv/(range*basetracking*trackingmodifications*yourtrackingchange))*((signatureresolution*yoursigreschange)/sig_rad))^2) +((max(0,range-optimal))/falloff)^2))hit chance = ((1/2)^((((transv*yoursigreschange)/(range*basetracking*trackingmodifications*yourtrackingchange))*(signatureresolution/sig_rad))^2) +((max(0,range-optimal))/falloff)^2))hit chance = ((1/2)^(((transv/(range*basetracking*trackingmodifications*yourtrackingchange*(1/yoursigreschange)))*(signatureresolution/sig_rad))^2) +((max(0,range-optimal))/falloff)^2))funny how yoursigreschange can be inverted and moved right over and multiplied with yourtrackingchange like that, it almost as if it'd be pointless to make both changes, even despite the fact that trackingmodifications are being applied. i really don't get how you can fail to grasp that sig_res and tracking are being inversely multiplied together and that obviously any changes that have been made to them get inversely multiplied together as well (also known as stacking).and finally... rearranging the hit chance equation into hopefully idiot-proof form.hit chance = ((1/2)^((sig_res/tracking)*(transv/(sig_rad*range)))^2) +((max(0,range-optimal))/falloff)^2))would sig_res being divided by tracking happen to count as a direct relation to you? don't think it's a valid form of the equation? i highly encourage you to attempt to prove it wrong, put in whatever values you wish and compare to the original, i would be nothing short of amazed. feel free to show the math too, it'll be good for some laughs."
"i'm intrigued how you get better range from artillery on the ferox than from rails. i'm also intrigued on how they track better, or have lower fitting costs, or do better damage@range...the problem people have with the deimos is not that it doesnt work, but rather that it is a 120mill cruiser that gets instantly primaried."
"im pretty sure rational thought doesn't really come into much consideration, but it's fun to see what random crap comes next. personally im hoping he endorses laser hyperions."
"nope it fails as a blaster hull, the slots are wrong, the fitting is useless, its slow, the siggy is bloated, its got a useless bonus ..... the list goes on.deimos + command loki + guards should = win .... but they don't cause it sucks so much."
"pretty sure someone has already asked about this. but just in-case. booyah*stamp*"
"i support this, but i cant shake the feeling that it is somehow going to make some sneaky market scam possible."
"we get alerted for new email and when our skill queue empties out. clone grades aren't something we often think about and it's easy to forget about upgrading it all together. i'm just suggesting a little blinking popup like the email, skill queue, or certificate alert that notifies about your clone when it's obsolete.i just noticed today that my mining alt was skill languishing with an alpha clone at 7 million skillpoints. thankfully, she never got podded."
"yes, strongly supported, especially since being podded without an up to date clone is one of the most devastating (if not the most devastating) things that could possibly happen to you in eve. it is clear that we should get a really tangible warning if we do not have one, at least like when the skillqueue is empty (character sheet flashing)."
"i say if you have a skull by your name indicating that you are in fact a pirate then anybody should have free reign to attack you without reproach from concord."
"capital ships really need their own rig size. the price of t2 large rigs is insane at the minute. it makes no sence to have different sizes for all the sub caps, then have a titan with the same size as a battleship."
"should have been done when they introduced rig sizes.i'd even say capital size and supercapital size."
"logically i agree but,we must look at it from both sides. if the 'rig' was designed large first, and it fufilled the maximum task it needed to and fit on capital size ships and bs hulls. then logically why make the rig bigger if it worked. they instead made them smaller to fit on smaller hulls, where the ships could not spare the space for a rig of the large variation. the reverse argument is that they were designed for small ships first and have been scaled up to adjust for size and effectiveness. then one could argue that large rigs would not beable to effectively deliver the same reward to the capital hull. the problem in this argument comes about when we consider the macharial,hyperion, and other such bs hulls that rival capital hulls in size. furthermore titans would need their own size of rig because they dwarf all ships in size so essentially youd have small medium large capital titan but the problem being if we scale up cost of build with the same benefit t2 titan rigs would cost in the tens of billions. (at which point they wouldnt be used.)so as much as i logically support this i do not support the second argument as it will lead to un-needed inflation in cost to fit capitals"
"you realise t2 rig prices will increase when you add their own rig size?t2 rigs are barely used on regular caps, pretty much only on super caps (also some on sub caps, but that is irrelevant for this). putting them on supers is not optional, they will all get them. increase their component requirements 5 times (for capital rigs), the component prices will skyrocket and t2 rigs become more expensive."
"you just proved that t2 rigs need tweaking. thank you."
"how many more months of the 18 months of no-eve?csm is not functioning currently as ccps ears are closed while they finish other games, wod and dust."
"i'll support almost any attempt to centralize the roots of an information tree.-windjammer"
"lets go under the assumption that local chat is created through the sov holder (npc or player) keeping track of who uses the jumpgates. someone comes through the gate, they get added, someone leaves they get removed. yes all very simple we know this.the question is, why do the sov holders tell you this? they own the system, maybe they can make some isk off it. if you're in an npc corp your pay tax (up the ass). that corporation uses some of that tax to pay the sov holder for local data, thus explains why you can see everyone. so now if you are in a player run corp, well now your corp has to pay the sov holder a wee bit of tax to see local (tax for player corp should be less than npc, so as not to buff npc corps). this system can be extended of course to low sec and npc 0.0. now null sec. why the hell would you (sov holder) tell your enemy how many of you there are? so only blues should have access to local, if the roamers/invaders want it, then they need spies or learn how to probe or use d-scan.i just got done reading another 'no more local' thread, so i decided to throw one out myself, adding further to the problem.the first thing people say is that will kill 0.0 and roaming will die. maybe. how the **** do you know? how do i know?edit: this actually belongs in the speakers corner not assembly"
"nerf you, buff me. i should get local, you shouldn't. would you like to bring concord over to guard you too?"
"nice.regards,windjammer"
"before the new contact system was deployed you were able to make separate folders for your contacts to easily manage who you hated/war target and who were your friends. now you can only separate your contacts by standing and who of those many contacts show on the watch list. this causes trouble for when your trying to keep the regular guys you just don't like from the wt you want to keep track of in the bad and terrible standing sections. further more it keeps you from separating wts into their separate corps.i propose that we need the ability to make separate folders in the watch list section of the contacts so we can separate are war targets from regular pirates, players we don't like, and the occasional friend we like to know is on or not. this will also allow us to separate are war targets into their individual corps for easier tracking. lastly it will make cleaning out old wts from your contact list an easier task with out unintentionally removing someone you don't want to.this was something we were able to do with the old system and needs to be brought back with the new.(i asked if anyone in the eve help channel knew if there was a way to make folders in the new contacts system and nobody could tell me. if their is a way please help. )"
"if they want to do the web2.0 thing then a tags field is plenty.means very little in the way of interface. so little that it's kinda amazing that they left it out originally and didn't patch it in the next week."
"definitely needs to be changed"
"i propose that ship maintenance bays on capitals have an audit log of who removes ships from the bays.this may reduce theft of ships and/or highlight who is/may steal ships that are not their own."
"better yet, how bout we get a notification when someone takes a ship out. dude people can be pretty sneaky with that stuff."
"very much supported."
"although i kinda agree with you, balance should be done around common fits not niche fits like the 8km/s dram"
"oh but i agree which is why i haven't supported this, speed is not the problem .. it is the ability to do anything/everything at once with very little need to change fits.cutting a few grid/cpu units off it will allow it to still pwn face but without such a laissez-faire approach to fitting. it should be able to outperform afs and interceptors, but not at the same time and especially not without requiring a refit."
"so my main is amarr and with each day edging towards the aeon. part of me is saying yay but part of me is screaming \"no you are still a young man dont do that to yourself\" due mainly to how ridiculous that thing look.logically speaking that design is fail because the armor only covers the port side. the other sides are all internal structures.visually speaking that thing look just like a banana split cut in half at the center on a dish.so the whole thing doesn't makes sense visually and logically.please just replace the 3d model with some of the deviant art submit or the recent ccp design competition. they are readily available and easy enough to do (i do 3ds max at my free time, its easy to copy past designs if u have the front/left/top/down views as submitted by those ppl)."
"am i crazy for liking it? i mean, look:"
"the aeon will be a nice-looking hull once they finish it."
"yet another \"the aeon is ugly imo\" thread.must be monday."
"only after they change the mutated potato to something sane. and raven was still designed by two men that never met."
"this but you have worst than aeon, minmatar ships, seems they're made of wood and concrete, so ugly ho and wallente ships too, the only bioships in the game. when will they start by using sharks instead of walles?"
"according to the backstory it was a private financed team and they did it very very secretly."
"i can only cratch my head at how the archon could be related to the aeon in any way."
"good point.i'll update the op.overheating from the start is a valid use of oh for snagging etc."
"they have mini carriers, its called the dominix."
"came expecting battletoads...left disappointed.and no, this is a very bad idea."
"/support"
"i guess noobs don't need equipment and like to pay more then everyone else."
"i'm on the same page as td here."
"complete overhaul of the wardec system?i approvealso, while you're at it, give neutral logis aggro. kthx."
"i agree that it is an exploit, but several of the high sec wardec rules and mechanics are barely above exploits while others are so \"griefer friendly\" that it is embarrassing.unless the whole mechanic is redone the loopholes are needed as a balancing factor. the simple fact that someone can declare a war and don't fight for weeks is one of the worst mechanics."
"thanks for your comments so far much apreciated. there is a thread running on shc right now and if you take the time to read it you will see there are ways to counter it but it is stupid the lengths you have to go to. wardec pos loopholemore points of view from other csm members would be apreciated."
"seconded"
"when you think of it, that's sort of the way it works in rl"
"well that makes it all worthwhile, lmao."
"i'm curious, insufficient how?"
"+1 karma"
"there are many more people that will be made aware of the minutes by this being in general discussion, those who don't check the dev-blog page every few hours. the general forum-goer is general more aware of a new thread in general discussion rather than in information portal which due to it's nature very rarely has new threads to read and is less lurked."
"yeah, advertising of those blogs is.. well.. non existent. you'd think they'd have a sticky in gd for them.*thumb up*"
"people are going to 'karma' their own posts with their 235 accounts. glad to see csm is doing good work."
"i hope this was not just the csms idea, because if it was we need some new csms."
"i glanced at the minutes, but must have missed the part where the csm asked about a timeframe for getting bugs fixed in the game product. could someone tell me what the resolution to the bugs issue was?"
"there's nothing really interesting in the new minutes, at least compared to what's been hinted at elsewhereif you read the actual minutes, it was ccp's idea/implementation and the csm pointed out how comically exploitable it is"
"so ccp don't listen to the csms, that's even worse. so what was the point of the csms?"
"ahem. *clears throat*attention stupid people of the forums.just because it was discussed there and those things were tossed around does not mean it will make it into the final product. ccp reserves the right to put in those features discussed or not to implement them at all.the purpose of these dev blogs are to gauge player reaction to some of the proposed changes, and they will adjust implementation accordingly. that being said, karma buttons are a bad idea. cause in eve negative karma means you are doing something right."
"from the context it sounds like the csm wasn't aware of said feature until the work had already been completed, so i think the better question is 'why did ccp not request feedback from the csm beforehand?'"
"yeah, exactly, ccp should follow everything the csm say, without hesitation or question."
"nope, not saying that at all. but it is a pretty dumb idea and the flaws have been pointed out by the csm. so hopefully nothing will come of it."
"oh boy...just what the forums need, an \"i love me\" button."
"i do love me."
"is it monday yet?in the meantime, we can sit back and all agree that console fps > pc fps !!there is also an office pool going around on the time frame of when the minutes are released till we hit 100 pages of rage. buy in is 100 million isk. secured by me.welcome to world of darkness... er, i mean eve online: the patch we refer to as an expansion even though it still isn't finished.also those who still has a working gold copy of the legend of zelda represent!"
"yep, its monday. and yet nothing in terms on minutes... just kidding :p any chance for time-frame on when today part will be released?"
"24 days and countingzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz"
"since this seems as good a place as any, in the unofficial blogged minutes the option to increase true sec (so worse rats) if a system is used more is presented. is the csm really in favor of that?i can understand on a first glance it seems as a nice way agaisnt macros, but as more often with such solutions, you hurt the real people more than macros. especially those alliances that are actually really using their space, and you promote building large 0.0 wastelands. doign the same for agent quality i can agree on, but in 0.0 you hurt the small alliances since they usually use their space quite intensively (since they dont have the power to grab more than a few systems) and you give the large once more incentive to bulldozer every small alliance they see, since unoccupied space is benificial for their members (eventually it will get really nice truesec)."
"i have a few that should make the list imo =)about bots in eve"
"when is ccp going to boost the jump ranges of the bo's and allow covert cyno's to be lit in high sec? allowing covert cyno to be activated in empire will bring a whole new tactic to empire pvp. along with the bo buff to jump range and fuel usage on bridging bombers,and other recons to the field of battle.i suggest that this be done by the final patch for the sansha incursion.but that is just my opinion on this topic."
"bumporooni!"
"as others have said, an increase in jump/portal range and reduction in fuel consumption would be great.i'll throw in with the t2 resists, comparable to other t2 ships, and stats equal to or greater than their standard bs equivalents. having the jump drive and portal ability doesn't justify a weaker ship - we pay and train to have that capability."
"flog!"
"aside from them needed a bit of a buff towards range and fuel. i think the major reason why you dont see them used so much is because they require a tremendous amount of planning and out of game skill. so many things need to go right and people need to really have their **** together to use them well. its much easier to throw a gang together and roam your way to a target than it is to meticulously plan out logistics. that being said they still provide essential services."
"/me hums the un-nerf blackops song. it has a very catchy tune.star lightstar brightfirst star i see tonighti wish i may i wish i mighthave this wish come true tonighti wish for bigger fuel bay and extended jump range at least by a little. please with a cherry on top. :) ccp i promise to not bother you about fixing other stuff....at least until tomorrow."
"most of this, and maybe enough of a maintenance bay for people to change mods, not hold any sort of ship.also, who was the dev who though of the agility bonus for sin what were you thinking!improve these ccp and things will be better."
"supported!not sure if its been said before but why not go along the stealth bomber root fit them out with capital weapons with some bonuses? anty capital anyone"
"make them able to fit capital sized weapon and can shoot target battleship and up. (similar to the idea of stealth bomber)"
"hmmm, you either chose a stupid name on purpose, didn't put anything more than 3 seconds of effort into choosing a character name that could possibly be with you for years, or you bought a character with a stupid name. you made a choice, clearly the wrong one, and now you want to re-roll it? eve is all about choices, and living with them. sorry you don't like yours, but your gonna have to live with it. not supporting this one."
"i have a horrible name."
"aeronwen...hmm. well, i hate to break it to ya but in real life ...guess what...i can change my name. also, since this is not real life, and i actually pay money to play this thing...do you feel it would be bad to permit this for anyone involved? i don't understand ccp's logic at all here. if my name offends you...i can change it. if it offends me (the one paying)...tough? i like eve because you have the right to offend whomever, and sensitive role players can get all bunched over this not actually being real life and some people don't have 24/7 to play this."
"i chose my name because i wanted to play the game as quick as possible - i didn't know the tag would stick with me forever."
"this topic has been raised dozens of times. the reason it is shot down over and over is that it can easily be misused. the prime example is corp thefts. if your character is involved in a large enough theft, that name is mud. if the name can be changed, the only downside to corp theft is having to change the name of your character. the bio has been deemed unacceptable as the old name is needed to be seen in chat channels by those who have been wronged by the character.the only reasonable suggestion i've seen to counter the potential for exploiting a name change is adding some form of kos tag that can be added at a personal/corp/alliance level and allows for a description of the reason it was added. this tag would have to stick regardless of name change. it would likely also need to be viewable by everyone (in the case of sold characters having a hidden downside).a winning suggestion for name changes would be one that is fair (available to those who have a legitimate reason for changing their character name) and cannot be exploited."
"all in favour of a name change.but restrictions need to be applied... some examples i can think of:only doable once a year, like remapssame cost as a character portrait swaphistory of name change is on the character sheethistory of name change is on the limited apican't change a name within 48 hours of leaving a corpeve is about consequences sure, but it's also about deception too, and you read about this a lot in the chronicles, people getting new faces and new names.if a corp was stolen from, it's common sense the thief would change their identity and to be honest i'm all for that. if the corp really want revenge then they have 48 hours to work with to tag the thief with a - 10. when the thief name changes it's up to the corp to go through their - 10s to figure out the theif's new identity.i figure the other restrictions are self explanatory, the cost and once a year allowance to avoid exploit, plus the history of the name change so anyone can see who you where.edit: forgot to add, - can't leave a corp within 48 hours of a name change -"
"1.0"
"cant believe this is a 2 years old topic, but i'll thumbs up it anyway.yes, pretty please?"
"what if siege was reduced to 5 mins and if they were allowed remote reps while in siege"
"make super caps log off time to 30 min. can only use fighter bombers and no other drones.they have the power to insta pop any thing smaller than themselves. they have the tank to log off in most engagements.super carriers already become the ultimate god ships in eve in my opinion, 15 billion is really cheap for their performance since they always appear in groups these days so they're very hard to lose.just check out most cap killmails involved supercarriers. almost all of them died at around their base hp, carrier spider tank, triage/siege mods have no chance at all to tank them.i've seen so many times fc requests in cap fleets,\"super caps only, if you don't have one, get out and save the spot!!\" lolso, if you have a spare alt with carrier lvl 5, get in super carrier. this god ship really worth it.it has ultimate dps against all other ships. it has great tank. capital sized logistic platform. super e-war ability(ecm burst). and most importantly, you can have all of them at same time in one ship. let ccp decide if they need a ultimate god ship in this game."
"not that i am in anyway a capital buff or even know alot about how capitals work.but i am siting here thinking wow that old titatin dd would be a great counter to sc's just swating down all there dps but having so large a ehp that i belive it would take a insane number of titatins to insta pop one. meaning that a fleet would be better off in a longer larger fight by timeing the old titatin dd's to clear out as much sc dps. i mean there going to run out of fighter bombers at some point right?also what is stoping titatin's from taking out sc with there curent dd? just asking as i realy dont know."
"why again jammable? why is yet again caldary ecm so privilidgd? falcons are powerfull enough. why don't arazu get such privilige? first more skills, then ecm mods, then marauders, then this.give supercarriers partial e-war vulnerability only. all e-war has 1/5th of it's normal effect on them, so you need like 40 points to keep a sc in place, and 10 webs to keep it from moving, but you should be able to do it."
"the problem with the old-style dd is that it kills not just the fighters but pretty much everything other than battleships and capitals.a level v doomsday does 3m points of raw damage, properly set up supercarriers (hel aside) typcally have upwards of 50m ehp. you need a lot of doomsdays to kill a supercarrier."
"input from an actual woman...greatly appreciated...and yes i want to stress that \"doa\" style wobblies are not desired. boobs don't need to move just from the act of breathing."
"im here to help!"
"they can just re-use the code from the beer-belly physics simulator."
"excellence; no secondary female attributes left behind. we all know ccp likes 13 y.o. apple-kind-of-srpingy firmness, but if you put so much effort into non-gameplay content, (and thus less content for the incarna non-likers), at least give those something nice to look at."
"yes."
"+1 in a thread about ****.****, it just censored a bad evil t word. i meant boobies ofc."
"actually there's a very scientific argument put forward in arthur c clarke's novel \"rendezvous with rama\" as to why this shouldn't be included in the game. the effects of low or zero gravity on the female body causes a great deal of distraction for crew members, with more than one serious accident being the result of a well-endowed female officer walking through the navigation deck."
"omg lord embra, thank you a lot man! now i know why they are caled \"hybrid\", they combineall this things :). but i'm reskilling minmater rightnow. to bad didn't do this from the start."
"you forgot to mention very hard fitting issues which is also true for blastersoh and why blaster ships have to be the slowest deimos is slower than the zealot wtf who tested this ?"
"supported. only titan looks like capital to me atm."
"bump"
"i think i would actually cry with joy if ccp did something like this. damps are just a huge waste of mids in all but a few, very specific situations. 5% bonus per level is pitiful, equivalent to just one extra damp if you have a rack of four. oh wow.changing the bonus to 10% per level would mean a ship with 2 damps would effectively have 3 - sound's reasonable? when ccp nerfed damps they neglected to buff the gallente recon ships. (sound familiar).this would be great but, like you say, there probably needs to be some kind of drawback. part of the problem with armor buffers is that you need 3xtrimark and often some slaves to achieve a similar ehp to that of a shield buffer equivalent without nerfing your dps. however, this makes your ship brick-like.perhaps just an agility nerf rather than top speed - allowing the boat to charge in and tackle but not be used like a nano-shield boat? whilst it sounds like a great idea, the balance must always be fast=>low hp and slow=>high hp. how about... allowing some gallente ships to run their mwd for longer (ala thorax), allowing them to potentially catch kiters. alternatively, reducing heat damage from mwd o/l would have a similar effect. base speed could be mainly unchanged.this is a problem, especially with the active-tanked ships: myrm, brutix, hype. when i cross-trained to minmattar i couldn't believe it when i fitted out a hurricane... i was throwing on 1600+800 rt plates, mid-class guns, 2 neuts, mwd and the whole lot fitted with an extra mid to throw sebo/web/etc on. then i compare this to poking around with similar gallente fits, convincing myself that putting a reactor control ii (20% pg) in the lows was perhaps intended. the hype is not the end of the world (because the mega and domi are respectable) but the brutix and myrm both having a repper bonus is dreadful. one of the most common pvp classes and there is one one choice of tank, which happens to be terrible unless you lol-fit 3 reppers on the myrm and use it solo. anyone flying a brutix will fit a shield tank in their right mind as the potential active tank is pointless and armor buffer makes a small increase over the shield with a massive speed penalty.all i can think is that ccp are holding out to improve gallente in a clever way instead of slapping on half-baked ideas."
"whilst it sounds like a great idea, the balance must always be fast=>low hp and slow=>high hp. yet minmatar ships in general tank better than gallente ships (gallente have to use slots for fitting, minmatar don't).this is a problem, especially with the active-tanked ships: myrm, brutix, hype. when i cross-trained to minmattar i couldn't believe it when i fitted out a hurricane... i was throwing on 1600+800 rt plates, mid-class guns, 2 neuts, mwd and the whole lot fitted with an extra mid to throw sebo/web/etc on. then i compare this to poking around with similar gallente fits, convincing myself that putting a reactor control ii (20% pg) in the lows was perhaps intended. this all has to do with the ridiculously easy fitting requirements for 425mm autocannons for ships with the second highest pg and cpu (minmatar) and the ridiculously difficult fitting reqs of blasters for ships with the second worst pgu and cpu (gallente).a good comparison is the repper myrm. you can only fit heavy electron blasters (worst gallente blasters), but you can slap on 425mm autocannons (best minmatar autos). no cap issues, better engagement range, better everything.also, light electron blasters (worst) have same fitting requirements as largest small autocannons (best)."
"as far as armor rigs go, i think an agility penalty is the best of both worlds, since it doesn't completely encroach on the mobility of shield tankers, but it doesn't completely kill armor tanker's ability to catch shield ships.with regards to the base speed, honestly it's the only solution. the thorax can already run it's mwd longer than most mwd fit ships because of the cap bonus it gets. it still doesn't let it catch a ruppy. and even if the thorax is faster on paper, unless it's a good 1-200m/s faster, by the time it catches the ruppy it'll be in deep structure and will just get popped anyway due to the ruppy's better tracking and better tank. the only other possible solution is to make the dps on blasters ridiculously high so that they could make up the damage difference in the small window of time they have the target webbed and scrammed, though if you can never catch your target you're already dead.it's important to note that the armor rig changes and the base speed boost have to come hand in hand for them to work. if you take off the armor rig penalties, your ships are still the slowest in the game because a) you have to fit plates to have a hope of surviving anything, and b) their base speed is the 2nd slowest in the game, just barely in front of caldari (who don't have any speed penalties and actually go faster than gallente ships in practice). if you increase the base speed, but don't take the speed penalty off the rigs, the ships are still going much slower than their minnie and maybe even caldari counter parts, while still having the absolute worst ranged weapons system in game.kiting is supposed to be a very specialized thing. it is in other games, and what people here have forgotten i think, is that your tank while kiting is not supposed to be your health, it's the fact that the enemy can't hit you. kiting means staying completely out of your opponent's range through speed and peppering him until he dies. you are not supposed to have ships with massive dps, massive tank, and massive speed because it completely unbalances the equation when it comes to fighting them. even in the big 0.0 fleets, this game has become about who can be the biggest nano*** with logi support, and that's not how it should be. kiting should be a solo thing or in very specialized small gangs but should have no application in bigger fights of 10 vs 10 or greater.so i guess that my point is speed needs to be based on weapon range and not some arbitrary thing based on racial hulls or whether or not you're a shield tanker. if you want to kite, you should have to severely gimp your fit to get enough speed to stay out of the range of blaster ships (melee units if you will). the whole advantage of ranged weapons is that multiple people can put lots of dps on any target at once. to give them so much more speed than close range ships without forcing them to completely gimp their damage is, frankly, ridiculous and is the root of the death of blaster pvp."
"if you can't pvp in gallente, you suck in my opinion.what ship isn't op from them? ishtar, ishkur, daredevil, vexor... maybe a few need a small buff and hybrids need a small buff (small hybrids are totally **** ownage though and buffing small hybrids people will be flying dds and ishkurs and ranises so much it will be rediculous)medium hybrids though could use a little of a buff. large... i have no idea, never trained big guns and never will."
"like your posting."
"like the game need that crap.....lolz...."
"if it gets an ao rating in the u.s., it most certainly would cause eve's downfall."
"i believe thats the point. many players want an ao rating(what ever ao means)they don't want a kidified world that is friendly and hello kitty compatable. with everything being so kid friendly leave us our eve.where men are.....well most often men."
"i support this.life dose not have a g rating. why should eve?"
"you don't understand. ao is adults only. this is one rating above the m rating for the esrb. it is a game killer, a lot like the nc-17 rating is a movie-killer."
"ill admit to it, id do it for a month or two... yeah, why not?"
"bumping, since i finally have time to start on the 'elevator proposal' thingamabob."
"i can't support this for one quite simple reason. eve's own lore dictates that stations, particularly those in empire, are weapons free environments. can you really think of a good reason why any empire faction would allow the unrestricted use of weaponry in a space station? its established in numerous chronicles and both the ccp sanctioned novels, that station interiors are home to more than just pod pilots.there are businesses of all types, the mega rich who want to live off planet and then the tens of thousands of staff who keep the stations running. not to mention everyday folk using the station as a waypoint. having combat in stations would make absolutely no sense whatsoever, no matter which way you look at it. the only small, tiny glimmer of hope for in station combat that i can think of would be to have a pvp arena in one section of the station where pre-arranged fights could take place. fights could be arranged in much the same way as war dec's are issued in space. of course the big difference being that it would require both pilots to enter the arena. as far as i am concerned however, if you really want pvp there is a whole universe out there for you to do it in."
"ugh. no.out of all the bad reasons, \"the fiction ccp made up to go along with the game doesn't agree with the gameplay\" is probably the worst. ccp can rewrite fiction whenever they choose to with absolutely no consequences for game mechanics. but sacrificing game mechanics on the altar of fiction is jabberwockian."
"and that is exactly the problem. \"relatively realistic\". how often are you shoot at when walking the street of your city?how often someone you know is murdered?we [character in the eve world] are not gun-ho mercenaries assaulting a enemy stronghold, we are very wealthy pilots that fight in space and would like to relax and show off our money when we are in station.in real life people like us will be the mafia boss going to the high class casino or the rock star going to a party. there will be a very small chance of getting killed, but it is a small chance [and adequately depicted by the risks outside the stations]. \"combat in station\" would be like assaulting a terrorist den every time you want to go to a bar for a coffee. look real life, even in afghanistan or iraq there isn't a gun shooting with several deaths at the local market every day. but that is exactly how a station will become if open combat was allowed. try to keep a space station operative if you get battles in its interior every day. fisticuffs, barroom brawls and so on are plenty acceptable, even back street muggings. the problem is that even in the less law abiding zones of space most of the time you should be capable of minding your own business in station without troubles. they are the mechanics we see in rl, even in the dangerous zones you generally can keep up a almost normal life. it is a requirement to keep up the society."
"i wish ccp would commit to *not* iterate on wis until fw is fixed, low sec is boosted and other actual game play items are addressed. hasn't wis/dust sucked enough blood from ccp? do we really feel they need to spend *more* time on it? so instead of everything waiting 18 months lets push it back to 24 months?"
"this thread is a little silly, and this guy demonstrated this perfectly. first of all, we are not mercs, we are men with wealth of nations, and we can nuke the -other-guy whose-face-we-don't-like with a single though. we heave wealth comparable to that of mega-corporations and an average corp in eve has more military might then a small nation. we buy planets with billions of people, and for some it is pocket change. and we are immortal. with hose capabilities i would not go around punching people. if i need a station captured i don't go there myself, i buy and fully equipped army of several thousand men on the pocket change i have left on my alt after fitting a battleship. think about it like his: when george bush did not not like ****** husein he did not send him hate-mail or punch him, instead usa declared war on iraq. secondly, ccp is nowhere near the point where it would allow us to fing. they are just getting the character creator right. before we can fight, we need a combat system, new skills for each-rifle/gun, back story, clothes, station interiors/exteriors... it's a ****ton of work, only comparable to making a whole new game. and then there are whatever problem we have in eve, like with my hybrids not blowing the other dude to pieces as well as i want them to. this is very far down the road, and is not even a proposal. so i will not support it.but, a the end of the day, would i like to plant a couple nuclear charges on the other guy's kronos? definately!"
"these threads show a complete lack of understanding about what kind of would capsuleers live in...high-sec station's secure capsuleers-only areas would not be staffed by a few bored and underpaid tsa guards. the money and resources that would go into ensuring the gods can walk around safely would be unimaginable to normal people, and it's laughable that players are suggesting someone would just 'bring a gun' to shoot a rival.low-sec stations being any less secure also misses the mark completely... those places would likely have vastly more ruthless and efficient security than anything high-sec would manage, just cause they both have experience and incentive to protect.and alliance 0.0 stations should be pretty obvious."
"not supported.mostly because you said \"first person shooter\". no. for any sort of gunfights in stations for eve, it should be a third person tactical shooter.that being said, i don't support the ability to just war dec and shootout in any station. if 2 corps are warring out in 0.0 and want to take over a station, i could see something like this as being worthwhile, other than that, no thanks."
"supported.when you get killed outside of pod, you're dead for good. it's the pod that takes neural imprint. dying outside of it means biomassing. there are too many pew-pew tards in game, they need to be biomassed."
"screw personal armor! i'd send drones to do my bidding: humanoid ones, their endo-skeleton covered with living tissue.neither gankers, nor concord will know the difference! i'd never have to leave my warm cozy pod... but seriously, what makes you think they don't have termination-circuits wired to every pod-pilot?if you act up in a station, then the local authorities scramble your brains.taking the technical possibilities of the eve-universe into consideration, that would not be too far fetched."
"just put weapon detectors in high sec stations. if you carry a gun, you get fined and they take it away. low sec can have less draconian and/or more random enforcement. null sec is the wild west. problem solved."
"i would support this idea if walking in station required a separate specialized clone purchase - something cheap. killing of this clone would not effect the space ship part of the game in any way.in that case, we can have whole new in-station combat mechanics, with isk loss for equipment and clone costs. being camped inside a station would simply mean that you can't walk around freely but you can still stay docked no problem."
"this is stupid. you're forgetting a very important question here:why the hell would you be allowed to carry guns in high-security areas? guys, station environments are nothing at all like deep friggin' space! they're always going to be tightly controlled and always have considerable security, with the obvious exception of low-sec pirate havens (i somehow doubt alliance-owned 0.0 stations would have lax security... not that pirates and mercs are even allowed to dock to begin with). they're going to be scanning down each and every capsuleer that exits their ship for weaponry, not to mention capsuleers are segregated from the rest of society to begin with. sure, if someone wanders outside of capsuleer-designated areas, there should be danger... but every single capsuleer who wants to shoot people in that area would first have to find someone selling the weapons within the station and then find the target and hope they're not in the capsuleer zone (which, again, would have weapon scanning at every single possible entry point).anyway, i'm not supporting this. stations are stations, not deep space. never should the twain meet."
"i seriously cannot see any point to allow ganking in station.no shipsno lootjust griefing."
"i believe this should be another game. i think it should be completely safe zone that shall we call it:docking area when you leaving docking area, then eve online client closing and loading another game that op is talking about, but loading directly in the game without any titles, sponsor ads and credits. directly in the environment that op describes. entering in to eve online back could require identification process (same like in the customs) and this would just simple logging back in the eve universe (in this case - back into docking area)if this station fps will something like eve universe just in the format of fps and will have subscription for it (i personally do not believe it is possible to make subscription for fps), then by entering into eve from it could have similar identification process in the customs.conclusion: this is interesting idea that requires work on it and i like it.support"
"eve fiction excuse plus all caps of improved logic.eve fiction excuse. eve fiction excuse coupled with real life analogy excuse. blah.and some people do not go around suicide ganking, or mining, or running l4 missions, or... hence \"commit to iterate\". this thread is pretty much to discuss how gameplay would look. it's doable, at least for station high-sec areas, that the mechanic would work that way after combat was already initiated, but doesn't make sense to have people getting instapopped by station-concord all over the place. thank you, too, for actually commenting on the mechanics rather than the fiction. i'd point out though that, even with customs agents, you can get around them and still smuggle. and even in highsec space you can attack people and then take the consequences. a blanket ban on combat in certain areas is antithetical to the nature of eve's gameplay. there doesn't need to be a separate clone though. clone loss is clone loss, medical clones should be allowed for both. and yes, that keeps being camped into a station as something significant, rather than meaning that you need to hop out of your pod and go drinking."
"you're right, the developers build a game first and then build the lore around it after.now, explain to me what kind of fiction you would build to explain why the hell people would be allowed to shoot each other inside stations?"
"oh, and: as long as we're going to have walking in stations be part of the eve client, there doesn't seem to be a reason to transfer to a separate client to run ganking in stations, too. why not just treat it as wis with guns?"
"it's good gameplay and perfectly fits into the kind of game that eve is. if you really require fiction, \"a wizard did it.\""
"supported"
"supported."
"get it sorted ccp...please :)"
"i support this. this is what we need, as it will be a great big step for this game. such a concept will bring in thousands of more subs.which means more people for me to pew pwn."
"i had a wtf moment when you said the new character creator doesn't have height.seriously, this should be implemented. that's just a bit stupid if it isn't..."
"i find it very hard to really care about this proposal. fw is broken, neutral remote reps mechanics are horrible, killmails are broken, all of low sec could use some attention, corp ui and functions could be much better etc. dont' get me wrong sure why not have this? put this on the to do list, but please this shoud be low on the list."
"incursion is coming soon, and incarna eventually. until then, i'm sure that most of these things you mentioned are going to wait anyway. might as well take ask them to take care of incursion and incarna's flaws while it's still being developed."
"supported"
"this just delays when they will work on actual game play issues. how long? who knows?i wish they would stop fiddling around with incarna, spit it out, and start working on the actual game play again."
"supported"
"/signedchin day! <<< ask cutter isaacson for details"
"well, too bad. it is what it is. gotta deal with it."
"i approve of a counter for cap ships. i think titans should be able to bridge subcaps immediately or it would be near impossible to defend a cyno ship and actually expect to have an engagement. everyone would have seen your fleet coming which would lead to either less pvp (which is the major isk sink) or less predictable fleet engagement escalations (ie unable to predict where large fights will take place and thus schedule server resources for them). some level of surprise attack needs to be possible.edit: support."
"supported. hot-drops should be more expensive."
"but in what place should pvp ever be fair?it is a perfectly fair strategy, just like an ambush.sorry eph 90% of the time we agree dead on but on this we do not. ambushing ( hot drops) are an expected tactic. \"obvious trap is obvious?\"i'll take then on in order of the 31. 20 seconds from the grid loaded, tackled, cyno up, jumping, landing, locking, confirming tackle and repping the cyno/primary tackle, and applying dps. assuming a ship is using an mwd cause we are assuming 0.0 and that the tackle was a hic. in even 5 seconds at 1 k per sec they will be 5 k away from the hic 10 seconds 10k now thats battleship speed. bc doing 1.2- 2k per sec will make it the same or double the distance. assuming the hic is at 0 on the bs's well then they have to get 30 k in lets say 10 seconds if they havent hit the gate and jumped. 2. what are you talking about sir i've killed carriers and dreads with less than 20 people. not to mention when dropped with superior numbers (only ever on gates or stations) we would just jump when they appeared knowing they have session timer.3. haha no sorry 20 seconds is still enough time for an undocking maelstrom to 1 volley a recon or a frigate. 4. i cant debate points that don't exist.i dunno, i cant agree with any talk of hot drops being exploits.lets follow the premise that ccp admits that meta gaming is a valid game mechanic and tactic.therefore the use of it in defence is also an expected tactic. therefore the defense and counter ability of hot dropping is obviously meta gaming, as much as some don't like to admit it. the north has been using it to fight tri for years. do you mean recon cyno?because covert ops cynos are for black ops not caps, also not for jump frieghters.if you wanna use black ops sure thats fine but ccp should not and probably won't limit the ability to use caps offensively, with the same result.not to mention black ops cynos are dangerous, ships that can light them have low ehp, the ships jumping to them have low range.finally ccp endorses hot drops proof of point is black ops cynos piercing cyno jammers. but they do not limit it to black ops only.ok im going to take each paragraph one at a time.1. why should it be balanced why should a 100 man alliance beable to effectively a 5000 man alliance? it doesnt make sense. when an army sends more troops to a fight because they can, is it fair... no but its their right. if you can't counter the hot drop, run away. 2. jump frieghters jumping to and from lowsec or through npc space is dangerous and sometimes unavoidable, good try tho.3. don't you mean the time it would take to push the hot drop to useless as an offensive aggressive tactic. you ever tried to make a rapier last 30 seconds against bs? it goes pop when they lock.4. basically you would make cyno's and caps as an offensive weapon useless. except when your jumping to a fight that is already engaged or killing a tower.5. they already have time to gtfo easily. i escaped a hot drop in a f*cking phoon 30 carriers vs me and 3 guys they dropped us when we engaged their bait nearly killed it while we were making rage and staying outa point rage from the carriers. then warped away that was 2 bs 2 bc and a dictor. so your telling me you cant get away from a hic +...to be continued"
"continuedhic + plus some other tackle before their carrier friends jump? cyno cant move meaning bubble can't move, meaning burn the tackle and gtfo not hard. also some tips if it looks like a trap assume it is engage the target aligned, or if on a gate with only 1 ship or 2 which are aligned. this will force them to show their hand or wait to get a better opportunity.they only change to cyno mechanics i want to see changed is if a ship is warp scrammed or jammed or neuted, one of the three, it cant open a cyno field.tho i do agree with some of your points my nc brother. i fail to see why you support the change proposed in its current form. instead of stating your approval of an idea that you deem appropriate. as the idea's listed above remove surprise from pvp as the only surprise in pvp is login traps, gate traps, hot drops, cloaked fleets (some what a surprise not really tho cause numbers are known), titan bridge hot drops, and undock traps.1 is an exploit, 2 are useable but easily scoutable and usually do not work, 2 involve the cyno mechanic that would stand to be changed, and 1 isnt really a surprise.if one loses the ability to jump to a cyno immediately all the fair skinned recon ships will be relegated to logistics work and transit ops, instead of one of their primary roles. and don't say light the cyno off grid cause you know what that would leave? omg cyno off grid warp away tell the bombers to bomb it, they wont be here for 30 seconds. which would leave the job to triple plated bs, which might stand up to a small fleet for a short time, but against a large fleet will still melt quickly.are you fracking kidding me, so you have 25 bs on grid say 250 mil per bsm thats 6.25 bil. they hot drop you with a recon worth 150mil fitted? plus 10 carriers each woth 1.1 bil fitted no support other then that well son it is already a wager that if they dont win they lose 11.15 bil. double the cost for half your numbers. not to mention the recon can only tackle 1 or 2 and the carriers wont lock you in time to stop you from warping off.furthermore 25 bs dps conservatively 600 each (usually higher) vs 1 hic for 10 seconds. thats 15000 dps over the ten seconds unless this guy is fitting to tank multiple old school dd's do you think that he will tank your 150k damage. now assuming my fleet fit chimera lands on grid and i have a sebo loaded with a script i can lock your bs in 9.8 seconds. wow so from the time i land to the time i can attack you is 9.8 seconds. ok now lets add a second for reaction time of the hic landing and not cynoing immediately and a second for the caps to respond and 3 seconds for them to load and see grid and have mods primed and locking thats 15 seconds aint it. well that means that your 150k damage just jumped so 225k damage guarentee you melt the hic before then. so either a you engaged in a very obvious trap or b your using smaller gangs or quicker ships. to the argument of them trashing rr bs gangs, yes of course they do carriers and dreads are the counter to bs. but an rr bs gang sound beable to tank them long enough to deagress and jump off a gate or dock for god sakes.are people failing to see that caps are pvp ships aswell and the natural counter to bs, cyno being their only way to attack and move it is unbalanced and un'fair' to make it so that their chance at pvp is gimped. compare them to a gate trap bait yells red box you jump you load you lock you attack. you will find the time for engage is similar. stop hating on older players and cap pilots just cause we like to use our caps to fight doesnt mean we should be punished because the 100 man alliance wants my station in fade and well they cant fight us, and when they roam through and we hot drop them for coming into our space that we have some how committed a wrong. i still cannot support this tomfooler"
"basically obvious baits and traps are obvious. the choice to engage is your but you choose to engage again unknown numbers art of war, good book you should read it"
"i'm not suggesting that the game be balanced so a 100 player alliance can effectively fight a 5000 player alliance. i'm only suggesting that the 5000 player alliance should have an omnipresent \"i win\" button in the form of being able to hot-drop multiple supercapitals on a bunch of folks in battle-ships taking pot shots at abanoned poses.show me a jump freighter pilot who would be happy with you lighting a cyno for them into a pirate-infested system. the sensible ones will wait for a quiet moment, you light the cyno and jump. the dozen seconds or so required to lock onto the cyno is not enough time for red/neuts to warp to the location, leaving time for the freighter to dock or warp out after jumping.plan your engagements better so you're not trying to hold down a bs fleet with a recon. don't enter system with a solo recon with the expectation of \"trapping\" 30 battleships. at the very least you'll want a hic on grid doing the trapping while the cyno is lit safely out of range of the targets. off grid sounds like a good plan.that's right. capitals and supercaps will not be starting the fights, they will only be finishing them. other people will be responsible for springing the trap and holding the targets on grid for the 30-odd seconds it takes the supercaps to arrive.you got away once, but there are plenty of instances on the killboards where a half-dozen supercarriers have jumped a solo battleship (or a small squadron of bs/hacs). now what if your computer was slower at loading assets than the guys arriving on grid? or what if the folks arriving on grid knew what they were doing and had their drones/fighters attacking you before the carriers could get a target lock?the hotdrops i've witnessed have involved neutrals in lowsec popping a cyno, warp scrambling the target, supercap fleet arriving on grid in a matter of seconds, and the fight being over before i could warp from the gate to the fight. by the time the recon is dead, the supercap fleet has already arrived.hotdropping capitals instantaneously is, in my opinion, hyper-escalation of a combat situation. if we have to plan on every single 1v1 in lowsec being instantly escalated to 1 vs supercap fleet, people will get sick of flying in lowsec. as more and more bored supercap pilots resort to jumping small fleets in lowsec, we'll find even fewer people bothering to fly in lowsec.there needs to be a greater risk when deploying capital ships than being stuck in a system for a few minutes until they can jump out. there should not be a need to dock up every time a neutral enters system for fear of being hotdropped by a supercarrier fleet.if you spring a trap involving a couple of bses and then summon the cap fleet, good for you. there must be a proper trap, and it must be sprung. no more \"suddenly, capitals, thousands of them!\""
"how about...1) a short delay between cyno light and ability jump... 10-20 seconds, reduced from 20 to 10 by cyno skill. should not affect other cyno usage too heavily(?)and2) a new mid-slot module called a 'cyno jammer'. similar to most ecm modules but with all optimal (no falloff) and 100% chance but a heavy cap usage, making the ship susceptible to capping out / neuting.so...counter-to-cynos:fit a 'cyno jammer'(s) and be quick and effective at using it. kill the cyno ship while he's jammed or fly/warp off.counter-the-counter:neut/jam the cyno-jammer or wait until he caps out or have more cyno ships.maybe something like this could be used exclusively on the under-utilised eafs?"
"you could make cyno ship invulnerable for 15 seconds to compensate if people are worried they get popped before anyone can come through."
"your proposal impacts the vast majority of players that use conventional cyno's, that do not participate in \"hawt dropping\". your basically asking for a change because you feel this tactic is not fair. so yeah lets make logistics that much more of grind."
"are you aware of the growing tide of opinion about removing jump bridges and reducing the jump range of jump-capable ships? the idea is to make logistics an important part of maintaining null sec sovereignty. no longer will running supplies in or out be as simple as walking to the shops.requiring a delay before cyno can be jumped to will not impact logistics except in busy neutral/red systems where you shouldn't be flying without a fleet anyway. perish the thought that deploying assets through cyno jumps should require some preparation, planning and projection of power."
"if you want to go that route, then activation of cyno should automatically deactivate all warp scrambling and web modules.so you can't have a single ship scrambling the target and hot dropping at same time"
"1) why not? if it is their tower why shouldn't they be able to swat the proverbial fly away?if you wanna play with the big boys bring the big boy toys and take the risks. its not an i win button by any means look at test avatar loss, they were ****y and hot dropped the gate, and got counter dropped by rote and lost a titan. 2) well i can name several frankly being a pvp corp in a large 0.0 alliance, my corp owns 3 corp jfs and 5 personal jf's. i've jumped mine into 100 man red systems, onto hostile towers, into npc stations with reds in system, into systems with no towers and such. gotta do what you gotta do, when stuff is needed and you dont have safe towers on route you make due, and no i dont use bobbeh.3) well recons are ships that are meant to cyno. yes hics are great but why remove recons from their actual job? as per my numbers above even a hic would be ****ed if it had to wait 20-30 seconds on grid with a small bs fleet. off grid cyno will get nothing done because you lose the surprise tactic. enemy sees local spike and cyno off grid at which point fc says get clear and get safe, you lose your target. 4)why should caps be limited in their fight starting potential, no other ship is limited on their fight starting potential. caps of all breeds are ships just like bs, bc, c, d, and f's. stop hating on caps.5)yes so meta game whos in your area scout their cap staging systems, be prepared. or just look at the kb if you see someone in a ship that isnt appropriate search eve kill and find out what he usually does. meta game is part of eve. had a recon uncloak on my tower in 0.0 the other day trying to kill me took me about 10 seconds to scare him away and i was in a covert fit legion. unfortunately his webs allowed him to glide outa my range and live but he hasnt tried it since. if you fight fire with fire your a less appealing target next time. instantaneous maybe, but theres planning and risk and waiting its just like any other pvp, except you dont see anything till your tackle says tackle cyno up. whats wrong with that? im jumping a ship worth usually at least 5 times more into a fight where i might lose it.and hot dropping 50 bs on a 12 man cruiser gang isnt hyper escalation?dropping 50 cruisers on 10 frigates isnt hyper escalation?low sec is where i go for pvp and i live in 0.0 cause there is always smaller scale pvp there, but to this date roaming with 3-5 bs some bc's and fast tackle i have yet to be hot dropped and killed, and its been oh 3 years now.i love my caps and my super caps, just as much as my bs's and my bc's and cruisers, i dont want to have to choose between them just cause some people cannot afford to field them aswell, or because that does not interest them. if i want to drop 10 dreads on a bs fleet i should have the right, and the ability to do it cause thats how my friends and i want to play with our 15 dollars a month (or 60+ dollars for some of us.) why they are risking f*ck tons more isk than you already, and being in hostile space and engaging unknown numbers. make friends with people with capitals and supers, wi personally has friends in the gallente militia, if they get hot dropped and we are bored we will counter drop with them. why dock super caps are harmless against sub caps....when was the last time you saw 1000's of caps? i can say i've seen 1000's in one system twice this year. if i have 100 friends in dread and we wanna screw up a bs fleet we will its our game to play aswell."
"bobbeh, arguing for the status quo is futile. unless ccp are completely brainless when it comes to game balancing, they will introduce some kind of new feature or a nerf to hot drop mechanic.you'd do more for your cause if you tried to push a proposal with minimum shift from the current system. arguments for keeping things as is will just be ignored.compromise.as example, i have always been very much against the great nano nerf, but even at the time of debate, i did support some limited nerfing, i recognized that the status quo was a problem, just didn't agree with the radical solutions."
"there is no technology, no matter how profound, that cannot be screwed up by the marketing department.marketing departments should be in their own building away from everyone else. their views should be heavily filtered and the lot of them kept on a short leash. theyre necessary, but most of their ideas should be treated as something from someone just this side of a straight jacket. if not watched they go straight over to crazy.under no circumstances should they be permitted to roam freely without supervision. they are dangerous and those who are not trained in handling them should not try to. in extreme cases, tasers are authorized.regards,windjammer"
"i support this notion...no facebook only events. evegate is a much more appropriate venue (or at least it *should* be!)."
"supported."
"you need to check the little box to give the thumbs up for support. it's right below the message box when you're composing your post.-windjammer"
"/signed"
"supportedi don't use fb either"
"the basic concept is this:joejane pilot has saved a variety of ship fittings that they are happy with. joejane pilot docks in station 1-xyz - i - pod-me logistics prime.as things work now, joejane pilot spends a fair amount of time purchasing the hull, fittings, rigs, ammunition and/or drones one item (or stack of items) at a time, then manually assembles their new ship.with a \"purchase fitting option\" button on the fitting screen - enabled only when docked in a station or outpost with a market - joejane pilot opens the fitting screen, browses to and selects the fitting du jour then clicks \"purchase fitting\" and the entire saved fitting is purchased from that station's market. hull, modules, rigs and drones are purchased with a single click, with a prompt totaling the price and requiring a \"yes\" or \"no\" click to confirm the purchase. purchases would be from the cheapest fittings on the market at that station. ideally, this would also assemble the ship moments after the \"purchase fitting\" button is clicked. the only thing that would remain to be manually purchased is the various sorts of ammunition (charges, rounds, crystals, missiles, nanite repair paste, etc.)if the entire fitting cannot be bought in that station, the prompt would automatically decline the purchase."
"shameless bump"
"yeah whoops. hit the enter button before typing anything here anyways, it would be sweet if we the playerbase had a function to report botters similar to the \"report spammer\" one. and to add a little icing on the cake, if enough reports come in on the same individual, their ships power core suffers a melt down and their capacitor leaks out and diminishes down to zero until a gm can investigate it further. the suspected botter can still do anything they want with their ship so long as it doesn't require cap to use. no mining, no warping, no ratting. it can still cloak but who cares.obviously abuse can come of this, but the same abuse was a concern with the \"report spammer\" function and it turned out ok."
"i'm not lacking support of this because of possible abuse, but rather i just think the function would be useless. i can understand a report spammer button, but investigating a bot is a bit more complicated, i'm sure, than looking at the logs and saying \"yep, this person spammed\"..."
"hey the \"report isk spammer\" button worked pretty well for making all the tears stop while not actually fixing anything.so why not.... if it hides the issue and makes everyone stop *****ing then sounds like a good button, even if nothing ever gets done with the reports at least it gives the perception of something."
"/bump"
"my name is m3talc0re and i support this campain."
"it's probably impossible to stop all conceivable types of bots or macros from being used in eve. however it's probably not necessary to stop all bots imaginable. what you need to do is modify the value equation for reward of doing x with a bot and the difficulty of doing x with the bot to such a point that it's no longer worthwhile for people to expend the effort of programing the bot or take the risk of using the bot. then (and only then) will the masses change their behavior. since killing rats and mining are also legitimate player activities, any solution to the bot problem would have to effect players minimally and effect automated systems (bots or macros) severely. my proposal does that to an extent (although not perfect in every conceivable way), and it uses already existing game mechanics(grav sites) which already exist in all areas of the game. there is even a pathway for developing an ihub for increased grav sites (ore prospecting array), and it is poorly used if i understand it correctly. in any case my main point is that there is no way to have a \"perfect\" fix for all types of bots in eve. ccp and the eve community overall would be wasting time trying to develop one, it's not possible or even necessary to attempt that. the fix will be an incremental change that makes botting less worthwhile and more difficult, therefore hopefully far less people will do it."
"the only solution is compelling gameplay.when gameplay is created that revolves around repetitive actions, then bots will be made to do what they do best, repetitive actions."
"forcing bot users to actually interact with the game in some capacity will reduce their impact to the level of player-run mining operations. at least they won't be able to warp to the same bookmark day in, day out, extracting the same high quality ore from the rich asteroid that respawns at exactly the same location on a predictable schedule.restricting the largest grav sites to those capable of keeping a squad of 10 miners busy for an hour should be enough to limit the economic impact of bots. smaller sites should be down to the level of keeping one hulk busy for a quarter of an hour.i would definitely move ice to the same system too, with small ice deposits only keeping a solo mackinaw busy for a few cycles.as for the mechanics of it, i imagine small sites would be \"static\" to solar systems, with larger sites being \"static\" to constellations and regions, with a couple of \"super sites\" randomly spawning anywhere. thus miners will need to have scouts out looking for new deposits, encouraging cooperative play even for people who will spend the next four hours mining with eve minimized on their work computer.i know, it is a nerf to afk mining. the means will exist to cope easily with that situation, it just requires having friends you trust. while i appreciate the low mineral prices brought around by afk mining, the current environment makes it far too easy for bots. no aspect of a game played for entertainment should encourage repetitive, mechanical tasks."
"this criticism is kind of pointless, no? i mean... is there anyway that pve can avoid becoming repetitive? given a sufficiently intelligent human, interacting with a machine will become repetitive at some point. ask the guys who live in wormholes if it ever gets repetitive doing sites? or ask the guys who scan and run null sec plexes, they will tell you the sites get repetitive. those are probably the two most exciting pve activities you can get involved in, so yea... avoiding \"repetitive actions \"is impossible for pve gameplay."
"i have some more defeatism for you: trying to stop botters is pointless, as the root of the problem is not the easily identifiable botters (them that bot 23/7), but ccp itself. ccp, while not maybe loves the botter, certainly firmly looks the other way, as we're talking thousands of russian and chinese accounts (read = income) that they'd otherwise miss out on.as long as ccp is unwilling to enforce the rules, or to really crack down on botting, i fear i can only sigh and resign to the knowledge that nothing will change."
"this. i think i'd rather see something that miners thought of as making their lives easier/better than something that they would (rightly) view as a nerf.-liang"
"just integrate this and authors sugjestion and some better npcs on that sites, and we have a winner :)so non static belts that you nead to scan for and that will be again gone after some time and defended with smarter npcs would solve this problems. exploration system is way to go. :)anyway please, just do something about this !!!!!"
"first of all,that is utteraly ridiculous. so a mining company of 5 hulks and an orca will spend more time scanning and warping then doing the sites? that's silly. you want your ships to cost 4 times more? and how exactly does one crack down on botting? how will you ever know what other programs are running on my computer and checking what is installed on my pc without i illegal by the way. not without my permission or order anyway. this is not really criticism of the op, unless you care to propose someoverall, i thinl this is a trong idea, and need to become part of one large mining expansion. move the sites. get us comets. make mining more entertaining and involving (there where some suggestions on the forum). make mining lasers change colour when you change crystals. i suggest someone collects taht all into one proposal, under one roof. then we will talk."
"very simple, comrade; you're either:1) playing 23/7, requiring no sleep, which makes you a bot; or you're2) sharing your account.both are banishable offences. see how simple that was? :)which brings me back to my original point: all ccp really needs to do, is compile a quick list of people who currently don't require sleep, and ban them on the spot. count yourself lucky they're apparently not willing to do so, but it ain't right."
"^this.go and petition a macro miner or botter.nothing will happen."
"i would like to be able to have more than one wallet division in my personal wallet. this means that i could keep better track of my funds and for example allow me to keep a sale of say some faction loot that i got with friends in a plex separate from my own funds."
"people have been asking for this for as long as i have been playing the game (2+ years now).we keep supporting it, ccp keeps not doing it. i for one, would at least like a reason why we can't have it."
"i can give you a reason.ccp dont care about this. its not important for them. you want it, i want it.but thats not enough."
"the only possible reason i can think not to have this is that it may increase server load, but i have no idea by how much."
"god this would be so awesome. have been wanting it for over a year. keep raising this issue, excellence, no wallets left behind!"
"yeah... damn good idea."
"great idea. should be straight forward to code too since they already have similar implementations for corps.i'd even deal with them adding it as a trainable skill ... say \"personal accounting\" to the trade group. each level gives you the ability to have one additional walet division."
"in real world you need to have a permit for everything.you must have a permit for trading and your papers must be in orderyou must have a permit for transport and your papers must be in orderyou must have a permit for mining and your papers must be in orderyou must have a permit for everythingand in real world you have inspectors who check whether your permits are valid and ensure that you are doing by the book.why not implement a permit system and some bureaucracy in eve?so make it like that for all civilian things you do in game you must have a \"permit\".i'll talk about this one example of mining.you are going to mine and inspectors come to belt and they warp scramble you and start communicating with you (same mechanism as customs police when you are smuggling).and then they ask you for a security code. this code will be one time valid code that you get form space trafic control when you request one and with it you will verify your permit.in game you will buy one in-game item (permit) in station and when you use it you get that code on the screen. permit is not consumed by usage. that security code will be small picture generated on server and will look like the picture code that you must enter on web pages when you type wrong password repeatedly to verify you are human. so that code no bot can read, only a real person can do it.when you transmit that code to them, inspectors thank you and warp to other belt.time given to player to transmit the code is long, but all through the time the player/s is/are warp scrambled.if miners are in fleet only one person can enter that code (code is valid for all pepole in that fleet but only if they are in the same belt, if part of fleet is in second belt they must enter code too when inspection comes to them)if person dont transmit the code there can be sanctions like fines and for multiple offences it can be ship destruction.if some person over and over dont transmit, that can be a direct signal that the account is used for botting and devs/gms can that see directly and take appropriate measures.this system can be implemented in other civilian operations as well.in mission running, your mission agent can do it before giving you every 5th mission (or so) ask you to input that codein ratting, there can be the same implementation like for miningin trading, inspection can ask you permit code every hour or every 100.000.000 isk exchanged (or something like that) - this would be 100% like in real world when inspection \"comes to your door\" if you had transaction bigger then some amount to see where you got that money and why...i think this is not too hard to implement in game...mechanics is real - its implemented in real world...it can free us of bots and isk sellers.its not too much to ask people to enter one code every hour, two or three... and that is few seconds of a job...and it makes the game more realistic...there is one more option in this system, permits system could be the way of taxing miners.corps or sov holders could sell mining permits and in that way tax miners because mining is only occupation that can not be taxed now.permits (in game item) would last for some time, after that you need to buy a new one or extend it.but this is only an option."
"there is this rumor about ccp not taking action against botters, because they are 'also' paying account holders and ccp is only after profits. this is baseless, because it is the botters who actually dont pay for the game as they can easily maintain their accounts buying plexes. they are increasing plex price and reducing the economic value of most items, which causes paying players to leave because they cant get what they are paying for. for example, a 2 years old industrial character can be easily beaten by a 6 months old bot in mining. i can post the calculations if there is need, to prove my point.bureaucracy is implemented in real world to stop scams and criminal acts... its time to stop scams (not those jita scams, as it is completely a different matter) and criminal acts in eve too!"
"standards and practices already patrols the spacelanes looking for violations of the penal code.your idea is unnecessary."
"you're doing it wrong. corp buys ore/minerals at a reduced rate is the \"miner's tax\" right there."
"i vote against it.permits are not the answer to the bot situation as it will create unnecessary load on the server and thus more lag. the best solution so far is to let the players deal with the bots in their own way (gank 'em). this way, bot-account holders will feel the pressure when they see their precious little bots explode."
"flying logi isn't exactly easy, being able to jump is about the only saving grace.without that ability you'd lose so many logi that you'd very quickly stop flying them.i really do think nerfing the ability to jump/dock will kill off their use.the logi pilot has to get some breaks, they don't get killmails and they risk more then just about anyone else in fleet."
"eve is long past it's golden age lore wise, eve use to have a much more advanced human race with a larger space presence with presumably really really big space stations.would love to see more intresting stuff in space and things intresting to explore. i huge wrecked station that you could fly into. it could have a long tunnel type feel with hangers off to the side.. maybe even some lurking pirates.i have the wonderfull mental image of a frigate slowly exporing though a huge wreck and as it proceeds the next hanger contains some rouge drones. it's be dark and creepy and just amazing to pilot through. could even be at missions or space becones.would open an intresting mission dynamic and give some more things to explore as exploring is lacking in eve(not talking about scanning but exploring diffrent places.)thoughts?"
"it sounds fun. it might require some reworking of the maneuvering controls though as double clicking works well in space and can get hard to use when navigating through caves in asteroids let alone a station.i contest the idea that eve is past its golden age. i argue it has yet to come into its golden age. if your argument is that little has been done to spice up pve types of things in years, i would have agreed prior to incursion (the new incursions is definitely a big step in the right direction)."
"ha, no eve online is awesome...ment the tech level of the races in eve is not what it was. lore wise when the eve gate was still open the tech level was generally higher. acording to lore we have only recenlty re-descovered warp travel and warp gates. aperently the jove still hide old terran tech near the eve gate so we don't descover it.that is what i ment by eve being past the golden age. i ment it lore wise.will edit to reflect that"
"i like it, i think you mean re discover earth built stations which who knows it could be some good salvage and loots.i don't know where it would be put in though other then site seeing with maybe some ratting"
"yea more things like this in eve would be awesome"
"sounds good to me"
"how would you explain the very esoteric function of this button placed in an overly prominent area to the noobs and other 99% of eve players who are never effected by this issue?adding a button for this tiny case is all well and good, now come up with a ui for it that isn't dumb."
"there are no consequences for the action. if you want to scam using margin trading, at least make sure you have the funds to cover the purchase your specified minimum quantity of x.alternately, having a margin trade fall through should have some consequence - such as a sec status hit, standings penalty with the corp whose station you used for your business, etc."
"yes"
"i do support a change in the way the skill margin trading functions.to clarify my opinion on the best possible solution without destroying margin trading is as follows:when setting up the initial buy order the amount taken to start is as it is now or the amount to cover a single purchase at the minimum quantity required by the buy order, which ever amount is larger.after someone sells to an order a check is made if enough isk is still in escrow to cover the minimum quantity.if there is not enough isk then enough to cover another purchase is put into escrow from the appropriate wallet.if there is not enough isk in the appropriate wallet then the order is canceled."
"so what is to prevent nap trains from doing this constantly to all of the blue tech moons around?more to the point, what is to stop the individuals who own the moons themselves from doing this to staggeringly boost their income?if you are bringing this up in some way that it disrupts the actual cycles of the harvesters on the pos anchored at the moon, then that sucks too. every cloaker and his mother will go into systems and simply fire these probes at moons to screw with the pos cycles.i'm very hesitant about any idea that messes with pos's with as broken as they are currently. until ccp changes the way that pos's work, i don't want them to tinker with anything else that might affect them.additionally your idea seems flawed because there is no cap on the resources of a moon currently. why would your probe throwing chunks of the moon into orbit have any affect on how much the harvesters pull in?lastly, go manage just 6 pos's for a month and you will want to tear your eyeballs out. every piece of the pos gets in your way, even if you think you have set it up perfectly. you end up bouncing off of your hangar arrays and spend tons of time just getting to where you want to be inside one of them. in short, it's not a pleasure cruise to maintain pos's and adding in cycle derivation to the mix would be soul-crushing.here's the other caveat. you can feel free and blow up whoever's pos is in your way at the moon you want. person holding it brings in too many people to defend it? get friends. it's a sad reality and a crappy answer, but it's the truth, there is going to be no way to stop super large entities from taking the best stuff. just like there is no way to stop people from blobbing a system to death.all that being said however, it would be sweet to have a capital ship with a capital moon miner on it that doesn't affect the yield that a pos receives from mining the moon. if the moon has a pos on it, then the owning corp would get a mail if another entity began mining the moon. if the moon is empty, then game on. i would love to gank a moon-mining capital/supercapital."
"seems like a neat idea.op did you forget to support your own proposal?"
"something is wrong with the idea that combat ships need to be arbitrarily pvp gimped."
"just what sort of mutiny were you thinking of there, sparky?"
"yes, more marauders in pvp plz."
"supported"
"bump =\"
"i'm to stupid to say what need to be done, but i know that something is wrong in gallente/armor/hybrid comination."
"this"
"since 2006. btw. i sopport the idea of \"some thing need to be done\" and i'm despaired enough to agree with deleting gallente and creat something new!"
"serpallente? -same ships but work a little bettergallentis? -remake of the whole mess it is right now, no thanks.minallente?- wow, this should work realy finegallentar? -if we get close to their speed (matar), their web bonus, their mwd bonus, then we could keep the \"wallente\" design and recall it \"sharkente\"never mind i must be drunk yet"
"omg learn how to spell philosophy. no, i did not read your ****ty post and yes, i'm mad!p.s. bring back haul tanking, and get rid of drone bandwidth..... fixed!make it happen ccp!"
"lol! :) lovin it!thinking about it and with recent things to come with the incursions, itd be hilarious and somewhat mental if sansha saw the state of the gal navy and its fighting potential, and decided it wanted gal space for itself!have a flip of situation where gallente become a scattered race and the sansha end up being one of the core 4!:o"
"do it, these goddamn liberal bureaucrats cannot get anything done, their democracy is useless. overthrow it. sansha would value my efforts and isk investment into their research much better. fed navy lost so many systems to caldary, they are hopeless."
"i was skeptical, but i really freakin like this idea"
"bit too random imo. one way or the other, not arbitrarily both."
"removing local yes , but it must go along wiht somewhat cloak nerf.ability to detect or consumption of fuel for example.on and d-scan remodeling."
"why not npc regions?"
"now find a way to make the mechanic portable to npc nullsec, low sec and hisec, then i will buy into it :)such an element of infrastructure will provide a clear target for roaming/black ops gangs."
"i am quite surprised that everyone wants it to affect npc 0.0. i got the exact opposite sentiment on the features/ideas.off the top of my head i am unsure of any good solution. you could give them beacons also and have em respawn after a certain amount of time but i find that less than ideal. if anyone finds a good solution by all means, i'll edit it in.for now i removed the line about keeping 0.0 npc the same."
"giving this one bump"
"well, why would a pirate faction want to help anyone else who lives in its space? maybe npc 0.0 local should require certain standings with the npc faction."
"i support this.i also think that npc 0.0 should not be included in the mechanic. if you don't want local, get your own sov."
"great i can support this, but make it based on standings completely, so if your roaming lowsec and have low caldari standings, the caldari systems don't show you local, but high sec should remain the same.this will make npc 0.0 alot more interesting as most ratting bears have horrible pirate standings.midna"
"honestly, i'd prefer it if only people who are in the alliance or have positive standings would get immediate access to local. everybody else would have it delayed if the owners of the tower decided so (give it an option).in the same respect, you could have npc 0.0 local based on the standings with the faction. overall, i support this core idea, but not necessarily the implementation given."
"i am unsure of giving local to a selective group simply because i don't think its going to work in practice. everyone will simply use spies or alts to check local. the status quo continues (albeit a little more inconvenient).as for npc 0.0 and lowsec i leave it unanswered. let another suggestion deal with them. judge this based upon its impact on 0.0 sov regions.on a side note: personally i am a fan of delayed local based on system sec status. 1.0 = 0 sec delay with an additional 3 seconds of delay per 0.1 decrease in sec status. i would love to see this suggestion in this thread and a delayed local added together but that is for another thread."
"i approvewell-thought out, although i would put a 2 minute delay for onlining the communications tower so people a: can't spam the crap out of it and b: can't wildly abuse it."
"now this one i like, reasons - it doesnt fully remove local but provides an option to have it be there or not be. not the extreme remove all local perma.my thoughts - npc 0.0, low sec and high sec are excluded from this. leave this to only affect player controllable space.now following the lore and crap to have local, you must draw a local line from empire or a 0.0 npc space. ex- if you live in ngm-0k there has to be a beacon anchored in each system leading back to either thukker npc space or low sec empire space to have local there. now this can be done via a direct line or by way of tying into another 0.0 dweller say, your phone line from there goes to providence to connect to empire.this could be more interesting as a small fleet could take down communications in 1 system and quite possibly knock out all local communication for the alliance.anyway just some thoughts."
"i like this.i like this. small gangs should be able to mess with comms arrays.p.s. there is already a model for comms arrays for missions which could be ported into this idea."
"some missions are terrible (rouge drones anyone?) and i feel that the 4 hour timer is too long to wait."
"lol. i just did rogue drones again today, and the alloy salvage on it is yummy! :)as for resetting timer upon successful completion of another mission: fair enough (but only if it's one of the same level or higher)."
"bountyhunting improvements alternate proposalupdated: 01/13/2010 (completely re-written.)proposal: evelopedia: bountyhunting improvements alternate proposal summarythe proposed changes outlined are an attempt to bring balance back to the low-security regions (0.1 through 0.4). making bounty-hunting a feasible means of generating regular isk income should be a priority; as currently the incentive exists most prominently for piracy. there is a need to bring balance to the equation. giving bounty-hunters the ability to display contract-kills as a decoration provides considerable incentive to pursue bounty-hunting as a profession. an opposing force to the notoriety of great pirates, will be the great bounty-hunters that hunt them.the issue of alts collecting the bounty is minimized by the blacklist and other filtering features; while there may be some alts or cooperative third parties initially, with a little research contract issuers may blacklist/filter suspected alts/co-op third parties.i believe this proposal is superior to a contract based system in that it still rewards roaming groups of bounty-hunters, is fair due to the reward being split evenly to all involved parties, and still allows for large completion rewards.purpose of alternate bring balance to low security space o this proposal is meant to balance low-sec not just to make bounty-hunting feasible as a career. restrictive contracts o contracts only allow for one capsuleer to accept and complete them. --+ disallows for fellow bounty-hunters to assist you. --+ raiding gate-camps undesirable. --+ restricts bounty-hunting to being a very lonesome/individualized career path whereas piracy is usually conducted in groups. less than desirable payment amounts. o payout approximate to damage may be negligible, undesirable. --+ not worthy of time spent hunting vs reward. --+ disallows for big rewards."
"so, small turrets 5 and medium turrets 5 > electronics 5 and engineering 5? the higher level fitting skills are there to fit t2. that's why the t2 take up more cpu and pg than the meta 4's. did you have t2 medium guns when your toon was 2 months old? i didn't. i trained up my fitting skills to be able to use them first, and before that i trained up the support skills to make my t1 guns better. and by that time i was well beyond 2.5mil sp. and yes, that would be two months at an average of 1700sp/hr.while i agree that the omen needs a little love, (i fly them all the time, only cruiser i fly) i don't agree with the rationale that \"a two month old toon should be able to use a rigless t2 cruiser fit\" that's the point of the op, right? lower sp toons fitting t2 fits on an omen. the whole reason electronics 5 and engineering 5 exist is so fitting t2 guns will be easier.p.s. it takes just under 2mil sp minimum to even use an omen with t2 pulses with md pulse laser spec at lvl 1 and elec 4/eng 4. this is not including any other skills for any other mods. sp would definitely be better spent elsewhere first."
"can likely get what you need by changing the order/priority under the backgrounds tab.ui makes little sense, but that order controls the way filters are applied."
"can we improve kill mails to more reflect the entire stretch of combat?often tackles and damage happen on one side of a gate, yet if the kill is on the other side none of what was doen before counts.just a minior annoyance."
"kill mails need to be removed. that is the only acceptable change for them."
"for some reason i think thats true"
"basically finding a fair fight in highsec is near impossibleso much so that solo pvp happens less then the percentage of podders getting laid!going to low sec will guarantee you get ganked by 20 guys and if you do end up finding someone to duel you have to trust their e-honor which usually ends up in you getting ganked by 20 guysthe only ways to do it is fight a corp mate or can flip which usually results in you getting borked by multiple bad guys or fight on sisi but hey... there is no real risk of loosing assests on sisi...so my proposal is setting up a contract system that is sanctioned by concord that allows said parties to temp declare war on each other (time period max 30 min) timmer starts once contract has been accepted...the cost would be 5 million processing fee paid by each party and there would be a betting price set by each partyeach bet price would be negotiable between the parties and would not have to be the same amount.the fights would run under war declaration rules but only the involved parties would be allowed to shoot each other or affect each other in any way so that means any members of a gang or allies or corp mates would not be allowed to rr or shoot at either party at penalty of being shot at by concord"
"yes i support my idea"
"i believe somebody somewhere proposed to have arena or even several of them (one for each big faction) where people could do that. betting like in the horse races could be lot of fun"
"courier missions should be removed. they are an annoyance for players, and the only purpose they serve is feeding the macros. those things are all over, when you kill them, bot grabs another cheap industrial prestocked in station and clunks on. eve would be better off without courier missions."
"believe it or not, there are players who enjoy this alternate mission type.and just because bots are abusing the hell out of this game feature doesn't mean it should be removed. the bots will simply move on to other areas of the game and we would be right back where we started. not supported."
"^^ this. not supported."
"supported times infinity.if you like this kind of mission so much, do it in contracts."
"pretty much this. doing courier missions is quite convenient in some situations and a nice alternative to combat missions for people who can't or don't want to do mining. you also have to keep in mind how important standings are in this game, and currently missioning is the main and often only realistic way of raising them. this means there needs to be as many ways as possible to do missions. removing courier missions would only make an already flawed missioning system even worse.not supported."
"if you don't like courier missions, use an agent that gives very few of them (like security or intelligence). when a courier mission shows up, decline it. it's not exactly rocket science, although you might have to run a few couriers when researching it :)not supported."
"my biggest complaint with courier missions is that they are very obviously used by bots. wander low sec long enough and you'll come across a hive of bots running a courier agent.i don't think courier missions should be removed. they definitely need to be revamped."
"interestingly enough the game does invert tracking, by definition, as part of the hit chance equation; so not only are they capable of being inversely linked, they very clearly already are. i rather suspect you don't even know what inverted means... maybe if i used crayon-drawings to explain you could understand, but i doubt it. i do however find it moderately amusing that you don't seem to understand that the only purpose tracking has is existing in the hit chance equation, and serves no other purpose in the game; thus you somehow believe that tracking modifications are somehow magically not directly reflected in the hit chance equation. you don't even seem to understand the concept of operations on equations.however, sadly you're now rapidly approaching boring. i had hoped you could actually perform some math to show your erroneous point of view so that i might be amused by it, but it seems even a display of very bad math is beyond you. you seem only capable of misquoting my posts and filling them with your horribly undereducated arguments and syntax.too much ignorant drivel to continue, goodbye."
"you are wrong, rented is right.proof:tracking is: ((transv/(range*tracking))*(sig_res/sig_rad))let:transversal = 100 m/srange = 10000 msig radius = 250 m1. comparison of 20% increase to base tracking and 10% reduction to sig_res to a 33% increase to base tracking.normal rail: sig res 400 m, tracking 0.009625rip miner's rail (20% more tracking, 10% smaller sig res) : sig res 360 m, tracking 0.01155rented's rail (33% more tracking): sig res 400 m, tracking 0.012833tracking equation result:normal rail: 16.62338rip miner's rail: 12.46753rented's rail: 12.46753conclusion: identical results for rip and rented. therefore, 20% increase to base tracking and 10% reduction to sig_res is identical to a 33% increase to base tracking.2. now add a 30% tracking computer:rip miner's rail (20% more tracking, 10% smaller sig res) : sig res 360 m, tracking 0.01502rented's rail (33% more tracking): sig res 400 m, tracking 0.01668tracking equation result:rip miner's rail: 9.59041rented's rail: 9.59041conclusion:adding a tracking computer increases the tracking of both weapons by the same amount. 3. remove the 30% tracking computer, add a 30% target painter. target sig is now 250 * 1.3 = 325 mrip miner's rail (20% more tracking, 10% smaller sig res) : sig res 360 m, tracking 0.01155rented's rail (33% more tracking): sig res 400 m, tracking 0.012833tracking equation result:rip miner's rail: 9.59041rented's rail: 9.59041conclusion: a 30% painter gives the same tracking bonus as a 30% tracking computer.qed.rip - you cannot separate mathematically a value of \"tracking\" from the quotient of [sig res]/[sig radius]. they are multiplied by each other, therefore any factor acting on \"tracking\" also acts on the quotient of [sig res]/[sig radius] - and vice versa."
"quite simple, i am a 0.0 dweller, and i spend about 10 minutes a week in station, 1 of which im idle, the rest is buying pvp stuff or waiting for scotty. but i am about 1 hour a day idle at the pos. some sort of short range clone jump into station is just reasonable. dont make me miss out to incarna (and our corp, for that) because i will not fly x amount of jumps just for that. neither will my corp"
"i support this but only if there is a null-gravity environment like in our rl space station."
"would be neat if pods could dock at a pos. the pos would have a few corridors and rooms. nothing fancy. no bars or anything like that, just a small corporation room and captain's quarters for every pilot. but yes, jump clones in the pos would be sufficient. but how would this affect wormhole dwellers? would it be op? nah."
"stop forcing pvp on people who don't want it. i stay in high sec because its suppose to be safe. but because you's listen to the pvp who want everyone to pvp, people like me end up cancelling their subscriptions and going to play wow.it has to end, should be no pvp in high sec (unless previously agreed between both parties). so no more can flippers, no more ganking in high sec, no moreand the fact that the game's end game and high earners are all based in null sec, shows that the game is totally in the hands of pvp'er.have you ever thought about the increase in actual players this game (and thus increase in revenue) if high sec was purely pve.and if they say that is not possible to implement, then they are talking bollarks. its easily implemented through solid coding.not to mention as well, the gm's and by extention, the game develops seem to endorse people who blatantly cheat by using macros for mining etc etc. macro miners are easy to spot, i know, i have reported more than enough of them but they are still in game, still mining, still ignoring chat requests and warping into asteroid belts at 200km repeatedly for an hour."
"high sec was never supposed to be safe, only safer than other areas. if somebody wants you dead, the police will punish them, not protect you. this is more of a firefly universe than a sterilized star trek universe.eve is not for everybody. if you don't like it, wow is that way ======>"
"pvp can be removed from hi sec if all asteroid belts, ice belts, moon minerals, planetary resources, level 3 and 4 missions, station labs, station refining, and station factories are also removed from hi sec."
"then there would be no more point in high..icwutudidthar"
"quoted before the op realizes how utterly, utterly, utterly stupid this post was.oh, and i bolded the stupid parts for the op so there should be no trouble finding them."
"do not want. adapt and stay or leave and go find yourself another game to play."
"bit of a necro but oh well.how about instead of the skill creating a remap the skill lowers the time untill the next remap?for example trained to level 2 11 months till next remap, lvl 4 9 months etc.i still agree that it just becomes the new \"learning\" skill but 12 months seems like an awfully long time to wait if you screw up a remap due to inexperience, imo a remap every 8 months feels like the sweet spot to me but thats just my opinion...also would be nice if remaps stacked regardless of being used"
"this is a learning skill. it's a learning skill because you invest sp in it to gain increased sp/hr rates in the future. we've finally got rid of these and you lot want them back? come on..."
"anything which would prevent you from remapping at least twice a year would -- for obvious reasons, you'd think -- be pointless.and a 16-20 multiplier might be too high. bringing any of the old learning skills to lv 5 took 2 years or so to recoup, time-wise. so, for a remap skill to make any sense, you'd actually have to be able to profit from it in the foreseeable future. a x16-x20 skill would take over 2 months to train, making the recoup time way too high. remember, you'd have to be able to profit from it within the same half-year span, or it would have been in vain as well."
"this really needs to be moved up in there list of fixes.too many characters are leaving the game due to this type of incident where the victim is not looked after."
"it would help if ccp stopped treating isk if it was real money."
"giev authenticator nao"
"i already mentioned this several times, there is a very easy, free but military secure way if you use a crypted 2 key (public and private key) version in the way how pgp works."
"necro, bump and support :p"
"random conversation this morning gave me this brilliant idea. basis:super capitals are designed to be the pinnacle of capital destruction and they are never mentioned without a significant amount of epeen stroking. but apart from being mail-generators they do not do much else to warrant their place in eve.proposal:add a tab in show info (in-game epeen, best epeen) of titan's and sc's that contains a truncated list of capital kills the ship has participated in. notches on the belt as it were."
"i don't think it will allow for scams, as they'd have to time it exactly, and it's only to change a single aspect of the order. if anything, the benefit would far outweigh any exploitable aspect to it.supporting my own topic.edit: i never restricted this to sell orders, i only used a sell order for the example."
"would this really be a bad thing though? lolsupported"
"yes, and if you do this plz let us also change the order range!edit: why does op restrict this change to sell orders?"
"evemon already does that for you. :)"
"inb4 \"not hardcore enough for no reason.\""
"yeah, i think i posted or saw something about this idea a while ago"
"lol^^^supported"
"regular capital ships (carriers dreads) should still use large rigs.super caps should have to use capital rigs."
"honest question, you've talked about gm responses. did you escalate to a senior gm? that is, is this a problem with broken wardec mechanics or insufficiently trained junior gm's?"
"this is absolutely an exploit, though you may have to run them through at least one more cycle of war dec avoidance to get a clear case to present.the activity was judged by ccp to be an exploit back when there was a certain alliance offering war dec cleaning as a service. so the judgment is already in. if you have trouble convincing gms of this, follow the advice of a previous poster in this thread and escalate.regards,windjammerp.s. kudos on your persistence.p.p.s. escalation is achieved through choosing the group rules and policies, category game masters and isd when filing a petition. contrary to some of what you may hear, the petition system really does work. escalation is sometimes necessary because there are inexperienced gms."
"i believe that all manufacturable goos are over supplied from the raw material side.the game has changed so much over the last few years that macro mining and botting is the only real way to make isk.a lot of the high risk activities of playing the game are now not worth it, e.g. reaction pos. they require high investment but give low return. manufacturing is the same."
"sour old bag says what? your post, issler, shows exactly how well you work and play with others as well as the lasting resentment you carry. the hypocrisy involved in accusing ankh of such things while displaying them yourself is nothing short of astounding. ironically id respected you until this hate filled post of yours."
"not necessarily true. in lawsuits the winner is often predetermined by who has the largest legal war chest. safe to say, ccps is probably bigger. that having been said, ndas being what they are and the csm being what it is, it is likely that any of the csm could have been and still could be charged with an nda violation..technically. and that technicality could be used to successfully defend in any lawsuit brought against ccp no matter how insignificant the breach of nda.ankhs silence is understandable and was predictable, though disappointing. under an nda someone can not only be removed from the csm, but a violation of the nda can be used as basis for a lawsuit filed by ccp against the violator. the suit doesnt have to have merit and can be based upon the smallest of perceived violations. also, someone who causes a corporation grief can easily be sued for damages based solely upon what they say about the corporation even without the nda being a part of the equation.all of which points to a plausible scenario in which ankh may well have been told shed be putting herself at considerable risk by pursuing a verbal and/or legal campaign against ccp with little chance of success. ccp wouldnt even have to threaten her. her own common sense and perhaps advise from legal counsel would be enough.-windjammer"
"ummm what about no.how would you know if some1 is protected or not? it's just not fun and add's nothing to the game.what if you had to pay the cops to respond to your calls? a different bill for fire and ambulance. think about it."
"for me the best part was when the csm's talked about how hybrids need a fix..."
"now then, it's part 1 of 3.then again, i'm expecting nothing"
"apparently we only have to wait until friday for the complete set."
"gotta collect them all!"
"\"the idea of booth babes (pretty girls dressed up in eve costumes, handing out stuff) was discouraged by the csm\"ok i see what you did here....babes handing out stuff....no wait i don't see it...wtf???????"
"moved to csm discussion from eve general."
"ok that does it!!!!lets start resolution of no confidence in this csm"
"hmm, is there something wrong with that csm? or was it the stuff the babes were handing out?"
"oh the horror,the horror!!! every time someone reads that line from csm an angel loses the wings.....and a glass of beer gets wasted somwhere around the globe!!"
"players in sov space pretty much ignore belt ratting now in favour of grinding anoms in upgraded systems - which aren't affected at all by tru-sec.personally i think it should be the other way around. continuous belt rat deaths should result in an escalated response.but then the logical conclusion of this line of thought is that eve's pve badly needs a massive overhaul, and has done almost since it was introduced"
"it is true that it is mainly anomalies these days, but it is the same for the macros, so then the question is: why change it when it has limitted influence anyway?but still, all influence it has will be in favour of havign many empty systems over few empty systems. this is something you cant argue against, the question is, will it ever happen?"
"rather than iterate on the existing pve mechanics ccp decided to develop a new pve mechanic - incursions. we did argue on this point at the summer summit, but ccp had already set the devs' priority and didn't want to change their focus."
"so now we'll have two different pve designs. and unless ccp nails incursions on the first try, they will both be underwhelming."
"inested of using the curent duble click method of manuvering your ship i think it would be fairly easy to inplemnt a simple hot key togle that would allow players to wasd contole there ship.in pvp dynamics this wouldent change mutch, speed of a ship would remain the same only manuaveribility would improve.from a pve perspectave, it give the player a stronger sence of controle with one's ship.likes on this? why or why not?"
"please search forums. there is a sticky thread in an features and ideas section (oh, and you posting in the wrong section ofc).this was discussed many times ad nauseam.no, maneuverability will not improve. perceived maneuverability will decrease even."
"there was a distinct lack of flogging of the equestrian variety.the people have spoken on this issue. if the csm is a functional body and not just a pr tool every session that ccp set up should have went thus:ccp: \"we'd like to show you...\"csm: \"that's great, but we want to talk about the pos'\"and yes, you would say it in all caps, because that's the voice of the forums being channeled through you."
"i was very disappointed in the hate on booth babes.not cool csm!"
"why are you quoting someone having no freaking idea of what he's talking about... the one time i used an orca maintenance bay it was to drop a tengu in it and it sure isn't a mining ship.frankly i was on a few blacks ops hotdrop recently and black ops pwn. maybe they could use a light increase in range but even with jump drive calibration 4 they open lots of possibilities (exemple, systems in range from osoggur with jdc4).the fuel cost/fuel bay equation got the merit of limiting the size of the hotdropping gang, which is imho a good thing, the last thing eve needs is mroe way to ridiculously outblob people.proposal wanting to make them sort of a carrier are plain stupid, i bet a good 95% of black ops pilots are carrier pilots, so if the situation call for a carrier they'll just jump in theirs...the only thing i agree about 100% is that the sin got issues and should basically be redone, but by someone with a clue for a change...as for people wanting the covert ops cloak i've yet to read a single good reason, black ops don't warp to targets, they jump to them, and jumping from covert cyno to covert cyno is a way better way to evade camps than a covert ops cloak will ever be. could someone provide a realistic scenario where a covert ops cloak would make a huge difference?"
". a variety of ideas were put forward which would make them harder to move around, the most promising of which was a cyno spooling time.basically the idea is this: cyno pilot drops a cyno in the destination system and depending on the distance from the departure system it takes a certain time to either get the cyno field up to the required strength or for the capital ships jump drives to get up to speed to make the jump. this time would increase with distance and the cyno would need to be defended during this period. this would limit the ability of super-capital (and capital) fleets to hotdrop on targets with no warning from half the galaxy away, it would also mean that a capital fleet would not be able to cross the entire galaxy in about 20 minutes. (taken from:"
"what is your answere to the fact that some 0.0 are hugh? sometimes u need to travel a region to get to a target region. how do u want to cross that without empty'ing your fuel bay for half? or bring 2 vloaky haulers to bridge a small gang? how about the +20 lightyear regional jumps? they still need to be done manualy and are often camped. (bo bridge fuel cost)"
"see here is the pinch.you got a ship that can move around semi well without being seen that has okay dps where in a normal fight two bo ships de-cloaking of your port weapons locking without delay will shred anything before most people know what happened.just based on that mental picture non-cloakers first reaction is to nerf cloaking.long story short don't be afraid of the bo ships by buffing them fear being foolish in playing this multiplayer game alone!"
"if you can't escape a camp on a region gate you are pretty hopeless, most often people now camp one jump further to be on a smaller gate and that one is jump bridgeable.there got to some risks still associated with bo, or are those calls for 'balance' are really call for a pwnmobile?"
"ccp pls fix them"
"they just have to fix that gay spin ships do when they come out of warp. make it look like this:"
"didn't see this on page 1."
"[/sarcasm]i just want more and more features, even if they are barely functional or useful.[/sarcasm]i do not care about 2 expansions a year. however if this is the decision of ccp then one expansion should be content and one should be nothing but fixes, iteration, balance, and review of existing features. i believe it has been outlined that you try to do some balance and fixing with every expansion, however i do not think that it has been working well. i think the developers would be better utilized focusing on one kind of project at a time. either new stuff or making old stuff better. but hey if you ever do release a expansion that leaves nothing out and is bug free and well balanced on release, then sure give us 2 new expansions a year."
"i agree with you completely. this is why i suggest an a.k.a. tag for each name. so in the bio or on forums i might be \"something else\" a.k.a. spendingyourchildsupport"
"these are excellent additions!!!"
"you were born a slave? sorry, you'll be slave forever.you were born poor? sorry, you'll be poor forever.you were born stupid? sorry, you'll be stupid forever.sorry, but i don't subscribe to your line of thinking. people grow. people change. you are not what you were yesterday. you will not be the same tomorrow.i always try to have character's names that i can live with. it means a lot to me. some people don't care at all. but preventing people from changing from \"don't care\" to \"do care\" in a supposedly role-playing game is just bad form.i'd rather have \"i was stupid, but i got better\" people, than \"i was stupid, and now i'm sad, too\"."
"the same way you are assigned 'titles' for a corp, it can say \"old name: xxxxxx\"i still am in support of 1 name change in a lifetime."
"thx u for taking the time to explain that to me.i dont know jack about caps or sov warfar but i have ran into a few low sec sc's. if there as strong as they do seem to be. i think there going to get nerfed into the ground at some point for all the same reasons that bs's did. how and in what ways i have no clue."
"and anyway: how can you distinguish between people who picked a bloodline for looks and those who picked them for stats? the female achura has quite a popular look but they also had the best starter attributes in the \"old days\".so just give everyone a free bloodline change?still waiting for any ccp/csm imput ....."
"seeing as ccp has not bothered to deign us with any kind of reply, we can read a lot into their silence, however we do get a free char portrait transfer(go look! i speak no lies lol)-so create a disposable alt then transfer portrait-then you get the avatar you want! pain in the ass tho-we should get to choose!"
"i would say for any release pertaining to the character creater we should be able to change ourselves again."
"well then it is a good thing that ships in eve don't have zero gravity. and even if it were low gravity it is still gravity and a bra could make up the difference. by your argument women shouldn't be allowed in space. has nothing to do with whether or not boobs move or not."
"won't somebody please think of the children!"
"you know that sounds like a justification for this idea right?"
"i /support boobies."
"oh my word...its soo crazy it might just work"
"1.0"
"i really like gallente ships. i started some cross-training to amarr ships to see how i'd go in one of their aesthetically nice ships, such as omen. i found i was already doing better pve with omen than i was a thorax... a disappointment, really.i like to go for dps as well as speed when i have a blaster-boat fit for one of my ships in pve, and it's virtually useless because by the time you get in optimal range, at 305m/s, with mega neutron blasters, you could've already popped off 2 of them with a volley of railguns.edit: support"
"maybe one day someone from csm become aware that gallente have some serious problems. for now, all we can do is spaming forums."
"wrong, i would do it in a heartbeat. i wish i could do it right now, cause i want to get an alt ready for hulkageddon iv.thanks for the support guys. it's such a simple proposal, it might not take much to get this through! keep thumbing it up!"
"i only just support it. in principle. there are so many extra facilities they could add in for \"dual pay\" accounts it would be a shame to \"waste\" it on merely training 2 alts at the same speed. still, it's a choice with value.still, :lolcsm: though. forget it."
"really makes sense, supported."
"its a fantastic idea, but i would like to see a lower price for a dual train. most of you seem to think that you only want to do it for 2 months and you would be done. there is a lot of merit to haveing a second character training at all times or at least a significant amount of the time, and paying pull price for half the benifit would be a waste.if you really want ccp to make more money then it would make sence to entice players to keep a dual account memebership going, not burn out at 2 months. it would basicly just generate an income spike then drift back to about normal in a few months time."
"in all stations? no.possibly in low or null sec... but even those stations would be npc controled and would make sense to have security.so..... no support here."
"not all null sec stations are npc controlled, which is why i thought maybe this sort of thing would be ok in player controlled stations..."
"this is why reading a proposal helps. i specifically said that they would all have security."
"i instead don't care about the game mechanics but care about the logic of gluing your gaming environment to eve. an the idea of \"fighting in station\" is a bad one. it is not logical both lore wise (no one will allow people to freely fight in a ambient as fragile as space station) and as a depiction of a credible reality. it could be acceptable only if there was a \"station invasion\" phase after a system has been conquered, but only during the brief period of time after the station has changed hands but before the new owners have taken full control of it. and any invasion force would try to keep it as brief as possible to minimize station damage. great, the only reason to do it you can find: \"a wizard did it.\" no, it don't fit in the kind of game that eve is.corporate backstabbing in station fit in the eve game, mad guy going to a killing spree in the market don't fit."
"i definitely do not want walking in stations to be focused on pvp. but having the ability to carry and use armaments makes sense and adds to the realism. using them should be strictly forbidden, so you have to be careful how you use them, and it won't be an every day thing.i think implants should be salvageable; they should make busted implant components that can be used to make a new set of implants that don't come from the lp store. that way carebears can't live it up safe and happy with expensive implants that nobody else can afford to use. only alert and well-managed players should get away with using really expensive implants.also, there should be an implant scanner module, just like ship scanners and cargo scanners. that way people aren't gunning down random pilots hoping for implants. people looking for em will know who has em and who doesn't. and the base cost of the implant should determine the amount and rarity of the types of implant salvage you get, or something like that."
"it fits in perfectly with game mechanics. everything, other than concord, can be murdered. absolutely everywhere in the game. there is no such thing as safe space, by design. but there are consequences in certain locations. rather obviously, stop trolling. and talking about actual game mechanics is an argument about the logic of the game. refusing to address game mechanics so that you can talk about fiction is, however, nonsensical. that pretty much ends it. you don't care about game mechanics, but you're pretending that having eve, in eve, is somehow violating eve. also, evidently, illogical. again, some pretty obvious trolling. i pointed out that it's good gameplay and fits into the game as a whole. i pointed out that for people who require fiction, then 'a wizard did it' is as good as any other. if people play a game with superliminal communication and ships that can be disassembled, put into a freighter's cargo hold, scooped out of the freighter once it's destroyed and reduced to space-debris, re-assembled in a pos in a wormhole, and then still have thousands of crewmembers materialize on it who don't need to eat and never try to leave the ship even when it's suicide ganking something in empire... well... it's up to them if they then use the fiction to determine gameplay. hopefully, at least, they can understand that fiction doesn't change or effect the game at all. if tomorrow the jovians were 8 foot tall purple bunnies, the game would be the same as if they were cannibalistic space-elves. if the caldari were hippies, it would be the same game as if the amarr became atheists. but a change in game mechanics instantly alters the nature and balance of the game. reality is whatever doesn't go away when you stop believing in it. the rules that govern the game are real within the confines of the game. the fiction you use to roleplay? not so much."
"stations should have their own security and police force that is totally separate from concord. some kind of assaulting system might be interesting, however, a full on fps in stations would suck donkey balls."
"doesn't have to be a \"full on fps\" (whatever that may mean, precisely). but just like you can fly around and do various things and someone can shoot you without the game becoming freespace ii, you can walk around stations and get jumped by another player without it becoming halo."
"if you really think that you are heavily deluded. it is not a fake quote, it is a perfect sum up of your post at the top of this page."
"ahhh, truly a brilliant factual rebuttal.but yah, you're right. eve is fungible with freespace ii.no, seriously, stop trolling. as i didn't say it, and as you made it up in order to troll, obviously it's not a real quote. and of course as you were trolling, the substance of the quote itself is a lie. i've very specifically addressed the logic of game mechanics, and the validity of my proposal by grounding it in game mechanics. you've, bizarrely, said that you don't even care about game mechanics and lied about what i actually argued.in your own words, you don't care about game mechanics which inform how eve works and what eve is. what you do care about is fiction, something that has absolutely no impact on the game and is useless for anything other than roleplaying. and you claim that by wanting to discuss game mechanics in a thread about game mechanics, instead of role playing, that i'm ignoring \"logic arguments\" (whatever you think that's supposed to mean).i get it, you're trolling. you can stop now."
"how much time finn, how much time? when can they start working on the actual spaceship game of eve? back in may or so they said it would be 18 months just to get out what they had planned. that will likely mean at least 24 months before they really get back to spaceships. now you want to add a whole first person shooter combat system? surely that will add at least a year. so eve will be forgotten for 3 years?i say f that. if your proposal said they would spit incarna out as soon as possible and not work on it any more until they fixed fw, boosted low sec in general, did something with neutral reps, fixed killmails, fixed the ui, when you send your drones to attck have them attack without having to give the command 3 times - same with docking and other problems with the game. how about 2 orbit and keep at range presets? how about when you hit orbit your ship doesn't come to a complete stop and then start orbitting? how about your overview doesnt' show someone 100k away when they are 500 m away? or show them as 500m away when they are 3 systems away? is that too much to ask before they start working on a new game? if your proposal said they would not touch incarna anymore until this was done first then yeah i'm for it. but ffs how long does the spaceship game have to wait?"
"dunno. i didn't set any time frame and tbh i wouldn't be interested in doing so. all i'm asking for is a commitment to iterate, not a deadline to do so. i'd also note that it's not a zero sum game. past a certain point simply throwing more manpower at a problem actually begins to show diminishing returns. there's nothing that says that they can't work on the space component of the game and the station component. the fact that they chose to shelve major development on the space side was what was at issue, not that they were working strong on it but devoting some man-hours to the station side, too.they can start iterating on wis the day it goes live, or they can simply begin brainstorming and not get on it for another year (or whatever). in my mind, that's not the main issue. the issue is that i want a commitment that it will happen, sooner or later, and that wis won't be left to rot on the vine as so many expansions have."
"yes there is. it's called a payroll expense. when you run a business you can't just hire everyone in the world to do everything. you have to pick and choose what you want to hire people to do. yes it is a zero sum game. this is what ccp explained to the csm. we have to hold on all the spaceship stuff until incarna is finished. your proposal sends a message that we want some sort of first person shooter game to be a priority."
"yes there is. they already have their dev team, and not all of them do (or can) work on the core space mechanics. nobody is talking about 'hiring everybody', or what have you. nobody, least of all me, has even suggested taking devs off other projects, for all i care they can ask devs to voluntarily brainstorm ideas in their free time and stuff them into a cookie jar until they're ready to begin iteration. i'll also note that your comments rely on the fallacy of equivocation. yes, they can indeed work on both incarna and space-content, they've done it for years, including when they released the single most popular expansion in eve's history, apocrypha. you're using \"work on both\" and equivocating it to mean \"devote the totality of their resources to both\". which, of course, is not and has never been how ccp operates. the fact that ccp treated it as a zero sum game is what annoyed people. yet again, they've been working on incarna for years while also working on eve's core space gameplay, nothing says that they can not return to that model. the fact is that they chose to deviate from it. cite anywhere in my op, at all, where i say that this should be a priority. because what i actually said is that ccp should commit to iterate. yet again, no time frame, no deadline, no temporal demands at all. just a demand that wis is not left to rot on the vine. just like i just said. just like my op said. if you want to argue against the idea that iteration on wis should be a priority, you'll have to wait until another thread comes along and someone argues that iteration on wis should be a priority."
"pretty confident i read a chronicle where a pod pilot is walking around, has a security team with him, and gets shot at. it definitely fits eve fiction. only problem is we'd end up with a bunch of npc \"security\" dudes swarming around each player to truly match eve fiction. anyway, i would much rather send a pile of these marines i have sitting in my hangar to shoot some idiot than shooting him in the face with my character as logic would suggest both individuals would die. being able to assassinate other players would be good."
"work on this on your free time? ok yeah i agree with that. ccp should no longer allow work on wis during working hours. if people want to do this on their free time thats fine. but the thing is when you have employees you can't just add things to the list of things to do. if anyone is a manager or business owner they will find this mildly amusing. every time an employee says that they have too much to do just respond thats the fallacy of equivocation. work on all of it at the same time! let wis rot on the vine. get it out so everyone who wants to play dress up and beauty shop can play that. but then ignore the demands for fancier sweaters and haircuts. otherwise this whole game will go pear shaped fast. incarna isnt even out yet and already we see people pleading to be able to add or reduce their height by a foot. wtf! we have the boob jiggle crowd. you think this will end after its out? you will just have nerds crying even louder to have their male friends appear in game like the girl out of their dirty magazine/video. now you want ccp to commit to some sort of entire first person shooter combat system? dont get me wrong i would like that too- if they had infinite resources. but for me i would like them to work on the spaceship game. we should be able to see bookmarks in the overview. the overview itself shouldnt be such a jumble in too many ways to list. fw shouldnt rot on the vine. we should have the cargo we want in the cargo space when we fit a ship. i mean really why wouldnt the guns be grouped and full of ammo and extra ammo in the cargo just like when you saved the fit? its because that would take more dev *time*.we should be able to choose from several custom orbits without having to right click and type in what orbits we want during combat. and the ship shouldnt stop every time we click orbit. i could go on and on. i mean there is *so* much to do why push to have them start on what is essentially a whole new game? this game is fantastic but much more could be done with it. you say you want them to commit to doing this but you dont care when? how is that a commitment? someday we will. is not a commitment."
"you do realise that these implants are 1m^3? first off there's no way you'd be able to fit it in your head without looking slightly off. also, if you'd manage to shoot someone then you'd probably hit these large implants, damaging them beyond repair. like your other ideas though."
"not sure if numping is alowed but here goes anyway"
"of course!"
"supported.the rper in me wants to see this."
"i can still voice my own opinion . but yeah if the masses want ccp to spend resources/time on space barbie that is what they will do. im just pointing out that the ccp resources arent infinite. so anytime you vote for one thing that means something else is not being worked on. i suppose i am the only one who wishes they would work on game mechanics instead of making our avatars pretty."
"supported"
"bobbeh, can you explain how one goes about \"hot dropping\" ships that cannot jump, without using a cyno?"
"not true eph, i argue for status quo because i dont think its broken i've already said my compromise would be making it so that if you scram a ship it cant activate a cyno gen. fast locking inties would stop a hic from cynoing pretty dang fast or needing a certain amount of cap to light a cyno. as it is i think the mechanism is fine, and fits well with the lore. cyno opens its a fixed point in space the jump drive locks onto it much like typing www.something.com and that locks you onto an ip through the dns virtually instantaneous except on really slow connections. the ship then folds space and appears at the destination, all in fractions of seconds. what is broken is peoples lack of ability to adapt to this strategy of play. cyno's and the way they work outside of combat is perfect and you cant change them outside of combat while changing them inside combat. instead you can change the strategy to defend, what i would agree to and this is even pushing my bounds is this.you press cyno, beacon loads you have 5 seconds to scram the ship and shut the cyno down before its broadcast to the capitals on the other end. this would accomplish both side of the argument it would add more of a counter while not removing hot drops as a tactic.quite simply as the term hot drop is now associated with caps, but its basically just a quick description of a large increase of force in a very short period of time. like baiting on one side of a gate then when they agress jumping through, or agressing them on a station and then undocking your forces. or engaging them in a system then jumping through the jump bridge. or using a cyno and bridging sub caps onto a smaller subcap fleet.all of which has the same nearly immediate effect as hot dropping capitals. but people are only but hurt because someones slapping down a bigger epeen and they are forced to die or disengage.please don't use the argument of the signal is being transmitted over vast distances, because its not with the creation of jump drives is also the creation of faster than light communication, nearly instantaneous over vast distances.what people want is the ability to kill the inferior force before the hot drop comes and get away. thats not fair nor is it justifiable. so eph there is my compromise.and mara we all know your a capital ship hater and proud of it so the point in arguing cap mechanics with you is moot.how is me using my titan and bridging 40 bs onto your face different than dropping 20 caps? its nothow is me telling my fleet to logg off in a system while we agress next door so we cant be scouted, then when they attack logging in and jumping different? its not and its not an exploit. log in traps are logging off in a grid and waiting for someone to come onto that grid. its not people just dont like the fact that i can be roaming with 10 guys and have 20 carriers waiting to back me up if **** gets hairy. im sorry but dont punish me for having more friends."
"the difference between a cyno and a jump gate is mainly that you expect the jump gate, and can scout the other side. a cyno can bring ships in from anywhere, only a very lucky (and prescient) scout will be able to find the rally point and determine that this particular group of ships will shortly be exiting the cyno field at your location."
"i disagree if im on the other side of a jump bridge 5 lightyears away you arent gonna beable to scout me or if im in a dead end system 2 away waiting for the call to jump and warp and enter system you prolly wont find me"
"exciting....isn't it?"
"that wouldn't stop anybody, short of clumsy or sleepy people.it would be just like with cloak. when a new ship enters your overview, you cannot possibly lock it before it activates cloak (unless he's unable to activate it due to proximity). it would be exact same thing with cyno - people would always be able to activate before even the fastest inties could finish lock, much less activate scramble.that solution would be acceptable only if warp scrambling a cyno ship blocked everyone from using the cyno. then the timing wouldn't be an issue.also, i am pretty sure that most reasonable people would agree that current hot dropping mechanic is broken due to it being so easy and instant - timing is the key factor. it's just too damn fast. if you see no problem with that in a strategy/tactics game, then you just don't have a good feel for what strategy/tactics games are. i guess it's one of those things that you either get it, or you don't.even tho my opinion of ccp is very low right now, i still believe they have somebody in their office who's capable of understanding game balance issues. that's all it takes, 1 person over there to be able to understand. then we'll have some kind of solution and all we have to do is propose the most reasonable ideas."
"no, not really. flying around low sec on a bs/hac roaming gang, just me and 9 friends, enjoying the scenery and getting no \"good fights\" because everyone else is in gangs of three or thirty. we manage to find a similar-sized group camping some other fleet in a station, so we engage. one of the folks being camped undocks in a falcon. then suddenly, super caps! dozens of them!the proliferation, mobility and sheer firepower of super caps unbalance the game.altering cyno mechanics will address the mobility to some degree, reducing jump ranges might be necessary too, ultimately ensuring at it might be possible to scout out enemy cap ship fleets. adding upkeep costs will address proliferation to some degree, so the presence of super caps in a battleship fight will come as a surprise (rather than an inevitability).i have been in interesting lowsec fights which were ruined by super caps that deployed from the other side of the cluster expressly to drop on that fight, just because the cap pilots were bored.altering cyno mechanics to nerf hot drops will not seriously impact upon the primary purpose of super caps which is blob warfare, anti cap warfare, and infrastructure bashing. deploying supercaps should be a strategic decision, not a tactical one. the battlefield might dictate the decision on when to bring the supercaps in (e.g. when you spring you trap), but the decision to bring super caps must involve a commitment to hold the field for some time.remember, we are talking about a pause of about 20 seconds. i am not suggesting that super caps be limited to two jumps per day. perhaps that might be a more acceptable option."
"i disagree completely and its not because i dont grasp strategy its because some people view hot dropping as an unfair tactic or a manipulation of power to easily where as i look at it as a means of projecting force into your surrounding area. the low sec population ( which is much much smaller then the 0.0 population) wants cynos changed negatively because they affect them and since the lowsec population tends to group in small numbers and living in small groups they cannot effectively counter it. tough luck. its always one thing or another, i tackle a command ship and his buddy and bring in my 6 friends to kill it and they accuse me of blobbing, i drop 3 carriers on a ratting carrier and im accused of cheap hot dropping. i run away from a rr bs fleet on the gate at 0 when im in snipers and we gotta jump into them and im called a chicken for not taking a fair fight. so much whining...why are cynos broken? what ive heard so far 1. they are unfair2. they are to fast3. they are unscoutable 4. they escalate fights to easily5. they ruin small gang pvpand my responses1) eve isnt fair, its a sandbox, its not meant to be fair, if i wanna shove sand down someones throat i will.2) they are as i explained as fast as lore would dictate, not to mention having a 20 second timer on engagement of a cyno would make it so that caps wouldnt beable to engage for at least 35 seconds. they are combat assets not pretty lil hello kitty boats. 3) its called spais, ccp admitted its part of the game now adapt and use it for frack sake.4) everything escalates the fight when in war has anyone ever brought a 'fair fight' \"oh sh*t sir the enemy have half our number\" \"alright tell our guys to divide into 2 groups and pick one group to go home, cant outnumber them thats unfair\" yea right its more like \" good it will be a swift victory for us\"5) they do not ruin small scale pvp, my corp and i run small scale roams every night in blackrise and genesis and placid and the rest of the fw areas and have not been dropped once. and have had many \"gf's\"ccp has not even discussed that cynos are unfair, so where are you getting this from the same tactics have been used for 2 years now nothings changed. we in 0.0 have been dealing with and adapting to hot drops for that time and now they are rare cause theirs alot of risk in doing it.now to maradude have you tried to kill a bs in a sc? prolly not! well i have it is slow as ballz using fb's and most sc pilots are running fighters so that leaves ogres and sentries all which have a range of 55k from the sc. fail sir failreducing jump range would f*ck deep 0.0 alliances completely. as there are places in eve right now that are only reachable with calibration 5 without traveling halfway around eve.obviously your not a super cap pilot as you would know that current jump ranges for sc's and titans are quite limiting already. i bet you'd be all hunky dory if caps were removed form the game completely wouldnt u?unfortunately caps are here to stay, sorry to disappoint you.bringing caps is a decision and you hold the grid as long as they are there no longer than needed.super caps arent for blobbing they are anti cap platforms and to support sub cap fleets and on occasion strike out and project force in your immediate territory ( one cyno from your staging point)so bascially in your opinion pilots who fly super caps and caps should change they way you play because you dont like it. so limit their ability to play the way they want because it affects your pvp. and your too lazy to change the way you operate to avoid hot drops so just nerf them so you can play your game without changing. thats very narcissistic and arrogant of you."
"supported, but carriers and dread jumping should remain unchanged."
"bobbeh, \"fairness\" doesn't come into question at all. i'm all for hardcore pvp and i know that real pvp is unfair, and that's the way it's supposed to be.the real issues with cynos are:1) too fast2) too easy3) unscoutable/unpredictablethat sums it up in most basic form. has nothing to do with fairness, has everything to do with game balance. do you want to play fps where each player has option to activate a nuclear bomb and wipe out all opposition instantly? can you imagine what that would do to game servers?do you want to play chess where each player has ability to turn the pawn into a queen at any given turn (lets say based on dice roll), not just when the pawn reaches end of the board? who cares about fairness, think of what that does to the game. it immediately loses vast portion of its strategy and tactics potential.in same way, the ease, speed, and unpredictable randomness of hot drops takes away huge part of strategic and tactical planning.small random factors in games are good, they add to the game. large random factors are bad, they destroy the game. and i'd say that the potential to get 100 people with motherships instantly materialize out of thin air, in any given situation, is a pretty damn huge random factor."
"give jumping via a cyno some small travel time. let them travel at something like a third of a lightyear per second (or base it on the cyno skill of the beacon lighter). if the cyno is destroyed in transit, it doesnt matter, they are already jumped. this does not change things very much, but makes it actually possible to flee from a properly set up hot drop fleet.this also allows the game (with some clever programming) to eliminate loading lag, since they could use that ~10 second window for loading."
"leave a cyno alone, the issue is capital ships."
"your right and wrong at the same time. it removes strategy and tactics for people unable to field counter drops or kill hot drops but adds strategies and tactics for those able to do the previously listed.also its not like that at all, nuking the field on command is more relevant to the old dd. also turning a pawn into a queen wont guarantee you a win. 1) too fast? how so? they have set up and been waiting for 20-30 minutes maybe more , they also have to wait for someone to take the bait and agress then the tackle to be made and cyno to be lit. then they jump and fight then wait to lose their ships or jump away. doesnt sound very fast to me, but hey i might be wrong. if a lone hic is flying toward your fleet and you dont think its suspicious? 2) easy? its not like they just undock and jump, they need to make sure they have fuel for the round trip everyone has the skills and its in range, that theres noone waiting to counter drop, and finally wait till someone takes the bait.3) unscoutable/unpredictable? i already told you meta game, it is an accepted counter. if that doesnt suffice, fit a t2 frig or cruiser with a ship scanner and if your about to engage scan their ships if you see a cyno you know its a possible hot drop.have you seen a random gang of 100 sc's cyno somewhere to kill a small roaming gang??? no i didnt think so. make a plausible argument such as when was the last time i saw 5-10 supers drop a roaming gang, and i'd say 2 weeks ago. and they nearly lost all their supers.when was the last time i saw a titan hot drop a support fleet last week and he did lose his titan.when was the last time i hot drop someone? well month ago random nyx attacking an offline tower unfortunately a fw fleet ran into it first and he ran away and logged at a safe spot.do i think it sucks when you get hotdropped yea it does but do i think its a valid tactic? yes i dois it a good strategy to intimidate roamers from coming into your space? definitely if they know they might face a random cap fleet they might head somewhere else first. success full strategy. is it also a good strategy and tactic to attack larger alliances. definitely cause it takes less caps to kill more sub caps check cry havoc, or triumvirate, both entities use hot drop tactics to attack a much bigger foe and be in and out before they could counter or fight back. sorry eph something you think is \"broken\" is a known working tactic for guerrilla warfare in 0.0 for the last 2 years. now its starting to hit lowsec more often and people don't like the change. but changing it in one will also change it for the other. im sure vietnam sucked for the americans and all the surprise attacks and rat holes, tunnels, murder holes. it sucked needless to say. but war is war and all is fair"
"in what sense korvin? their proliferation? or their role? or their ability to counter support? or their use in pvp?"
"this is not a bad idea. needs to be worked on, sure, but i will add it as a possible solution to the op."
"i wonder if that is really the case - from where i am sitting, the only two major issues i see with capitals is the need to buff the dreadnought, and nerf the supercarrier, in order to make both fill a given niche.the problem discussed here are the mechanics around the actual cyno system - the actual ships that use them are not all that problematic, apart from the mentioned issues."
"i don't think further arguing is going to add much to the discussion. the main points of concern have been presented.we need to know - does ccp \"get it\"?if they don't, no point trying to propose ideas.if they do, we can start picking the best ideas and get support for them."
"i'm not sure, i think bobbeh et al have presented many good arguments against it, while you and others have argued well for. i believe the issue needs a good debate, with respect given to all opposing views, so that we can weight the pros and cons, and overall implications, in a fair and balanced way. it is indeed a major aspect of nullsec pvp (and indeed logistics in general) that we are talking about, and it needs careful scrutiny and consideration due to the wide implications any changes to it would have.personally, i abide by my original proposition - i think it needs changing. i do not believe this would ruin it for either those who use it as a means of logistics, nor do i think it would invalidate it as a crucial element of fleet warfare."
"#1 is exactly the fix the game needs. i'd say the timer should be like 30 seconds. 10 is just laughable.the ****ing hot-drop mechanics just turns the game into a state where only isk matters.also, equipping cyno generator should result in ship getting a clearly distinguished mark/aura around it."
"problem with buffing dreads as stated in the supercarriers thread is that it would make them un-balanced with bs, as it stands right now dreads of equal number do fairly well against bs fleets. buffing them would distort this.and nerfing super carriers to much would give titans a massive advantage in the cap warfare field, as nothing would beable to kill them if they logged.as stated the area dd was a good counter to fighter blob and therefore fb blob, and blob in general but became a problem as titan number grew. i agree that there is some balancing needed at the moment but what i cant say definitively is that the problem isnt caused by the advantage cap ships have due to lag. specially titan dd's and in moderate lag fighter bombers, and fighters.i state this because in low lag to no lag situations small support fleets can easily clip fighters and fighter bombers. but when lag is higher this becomes harder to do and therefore carrier vessels get a benefit due to lag. furthermore, if severe lag where modules won't fire titans are the only ship on grid still killing with their dd's.some of the problem people have with hot drops is lag. the momentary spike from several ships appearing infront of you and then their fighters/fighter bombers can cause a momentary slowing of not as competitive computers. this can lead to hot drops being inescapable. unfortunately in pc gaming there will always be drawbacks of not having good/great hardware, or enough of it."
"i just don't want this to play out like the nano nerf discussions - over 100 pages of debate on the issue, mostly rehashing the same arguments over and over again. numerous ideas proposed. no sign of life from ccpthen months later - ccp announces a radical solution that nobody called for. all those 100s of pages with ideas worthless. and as result the game got worse than before.it could easily happen with cyno mechanics. ccp can just announce out of the blue that they got some bright new idea that changes everything and only radicals on 1 side support it.we need better understanding of what ccp believes - what they see as problem and what they think is fine. there's been enough discussion already to at least get that."
"thank you for that horizon, some people just think im a troll, but i truly believe that at least someone needs to point out the hard facts on the assembly board. if not because the majority of the posters arent older players or deep 0.0 inhabitance or super cap pilots, but because people often forget that everyone who plays the game deserves to play it the way they want.missioners hate gankersminers hate macroers small gang roamers hate hot dropperscap pilots hate super cap pilotsand they all have a right to but that doesnt mean one has the right to nerf the other or eliminate the other from the game.personally im an 03 player thats dabbled in most aspects of the game except macro'ing/ lvl 5 missioning/ and ninja salvaging. so if noone speaks up as the devils advocate against an argument i feel inclined. there was a time where people believed the insta-locking perma point lowsec hic should be an exploit, not a tactic. and it still exists to this day (with a few tweaks, like stacking penalties and max sig res) but believe you me when i jumped through a gate yesterday and a remoted sebo'd stilleto locked me the minute he clicked me and i didnt even get a chance to cloak (little lag was prolly a factor too) i had no choice but to burn to the gate and jump back through.sucks? yes, valid tactic, yes, slowed my day down? definitely.so yes when im roaming and i get hot dropped i agree it sucks, but i've also been on the other side of that, when its went well and when its failed horribly. when it goes well its alot of fun, but when it fails horribly is really sucks. so as i said above there are other factors at play with the hot drop game mechanic that arent even related like lag, actual newer player surprise, lack of knowledge of tactics to fight and counter caps. the easiest answer is always to nerf, with the current mechanics artillery is op, not because it actually is but because in high lag situations and lack of heavy tanked bs, the alpha fleet can succeed. as the alpha fleet is the natural counter to the rr fleet, which is the natural counter to the sniper fleet, which is the natural counter to the close range fleet,and so on and so forth. carrier roaming and hotdropping is just as much part of the game as cruiser roaming and baiting. thing is though as capital numbers proliferate the number of hot drops will increase. 2 years ago the number of capital ships outside of the big 0.0 alliances was much smaller than it is today. this meant there was less hot drops, just like there was less titans which meant less dd's. now proliferation of numbers can show inherent flaws in mechanics or just make undesirable mechanics more popular. such as the artillery buff rejuvenating highsec ganking, and the drama that ensued. and since to this date ccp has refused to put artificial limits on certain ship classes as per numbers of their hulls. one cannot limit the number of carriers or dreads or sc's or titans in the game because the amount of minerals in the game is infinite. we can expect the number of capitals to continue growing till hotdropping is pointless cause everyone will beable to counter it. but unfortunately we are at that stage right now where there are enough caps to be an annoyance to roamers but not enough for hot drops to be uncommon, due to risk.as for the argument of it being easy, it may seem to the target to be easy but for myself to say i want to put my 1.1 bil isk carrier on the line to gank someone in lowsec not knowing if someone in a sc gang is looking for a target, and my hot drop would provide that to them. one fix would be to disallow super caps in low sec period. this would **** alot of people off including myself but would result in cap hot drops being more common but super cap hot drops wouldnt exist. as i have stated earlier i think the fix will be found in a counter to the mechanic not changing it. continued"
"also bobbeh, nobody is trying to eliminate hot drops as valid game tactic. those who do are just trolling.all moderate ideas merely shift the timing and placing of the hot drop, with net gain of 20-40 seconds.as far as strategic hot dropping goes - with numerous people on both sides, they'd hardly be effected at all. the most significant change in tactics would occur on the small scale, when small/fast gangs are being dropped by large/slow gangs. and even then, people would still be able to execute hot drops successfully, they will just need to put a little more effort and thought into it.so it's wrong to defend cyno mechanics in a way that assumes we are trying to get rid of it. that's not what we are arguing."
"because changing the mechanic is any way always will result in breaking something else, or an undesired affect that we were unaware of in testing. simple counters would be in the first x period of time (5-15 seconds) a cyno can be blocked with a module, like a warp scram or a focus point... during that period the ship wouldnt suffer any penalties of the cyno module but would broadcast system wide a cyno beacon. and if it was jammed successfully the cyno module would be shut off and not beable to reactivate for 30-60 seconds. the work around would be multiple cyno ships, in one fleet cause you cant jam all of them. problems with keeping the same mechanic but not allowing ships to jump for a certain period is that the cyno ship suffers because for that period they must tank the entire enemy gang alone, or with very little support. as i've stated earlier the main ship for cynos is the one with the bonus to it force recons, this ships are not built to tank dps, or fight 1v1 against hacs, bcs, bs's, and the like. they are force multipliers through ecm and cyno's. this being their role any change to the mechanic will have an adverse affect on their use and abilities for positive or negative. making cyno'ing / hot dropping too hard will remove it as a valid pvp tactic. i do agree in to the statement that hot dropping in your sphere of influence is a relatively easy maneuver, and the further from your comfort zone you go the harder and more dangerous it is. an rl example is, it is realtively easy to make and plant an ied on the side of the road in iraq and afganistan, but it is a painful and hard job to find and disarm them. but if your not vigil for them you will be killed and the bomber/terrorist/ activist will have done minimal work.now i know eve isnt rl and rl isnt eve. but the example applies in the way that its easy to set up an ambush that will have almost instant pay off but its very hard to avoid it and scout/prepare for it.so lets think about it from a ig sense if a fleet was having problems with cynos and hot drops what kind of technology would they create or make mobile? or how would they change their strategies?well first off they'd probably bring ship scanners and be vigil for certain ship classes acting funny and scan them for cynos.secondly they would not engage targets if there was a decent chance it was a trap that they couldnt counter or deal with.as for techthey'd probably try to make the cyno jammer tech mobile or focused to shut down or block a cyno in a local area. if that was impossible they'd probably find a way to scramble it so that there was a delay in its broadcasting. if that failed to come through they would probably find a way to expedite their withdraw from ambush engagements through fitting certain modules.i have to head to my graduate classes but i'll continue when i return in 3 hours."
"^^ this.and supported."
"say you implemented the following;cynos take 10 seconds to power up + up the cpu/grid to something like 50/80.-10% / level for covert ops / recons + fittable on covert ops frigs.hics get a script to produce a 20km rad cyno jamming bubble.dics get a 20km rad cyno jamming probe.in that situation a gang can prepare to counter cynos with an appropriately fit hic/dic.assuming a gang brings along suitable counter a simple hotdrop strat would be to have a tanked bs bait, a bubbler ready to go, an a force recon 30km+ from the bait. asoon as the gangs bubbled their 5 secs away from having some caps on their head.a nerf of 5-10 secs before the caps turnup.recons are more obviously a cyno threat.need atleast a throw away cruiser hull.bringing a counter buys you 20km+.obvious to the droppers if you haven't brought a hull that can counter.no real impact on logistics.^^ the aboves not a monster nerf on hotdropping, just turning it down a notch and increasing the thought required to execute or counter."
"going to point everyone in this thread to what will be the upcoming dev blogs (friday it sounds like) providing the minutes for the rest of the csm summit:part 2 - economist discussing how these huge 0.0 fights are critical to keeping the economy from spiraling into massive deflation. in fact he apparently was discussing his worries about the decreased amount of pvp and the effect it has had on the market. read this as caps need to be able to fly around the galaxy so they get into fights and go boom to keep margins in the market.part 3 - devs agreeing that dominion didn't work so well and how they are worried about super-cap proliferation and why it is a bad thing. of course they weren't privy to the dramatic increase in super-cap losses of the last 2 weeks at the time of the summit.so, something has to change. \"nerf cynos cause the little guys don't have them and that's not fair!\" isn't the answer."
"actually part 3 says otherwise:so people can call it a nerf if they want to but, something has got to give."
"stargates can only bring into system subcapital ships, only at predefined spots and other side can be easily scouted.cynos can bring into system about anything. suddenly. at any spot. no warping or whatever needed.imho. this is not a new issue and not related to amount of supercaps whatever. it's been always a tad bit overpowered.suddenly capitals or titan bridge. gg.it would be good to have at least some kind of delay after cyno is activated so people can actually react to it. even in laggy system. i don't even mind if cyno ship can move after deploying it. maybe it could be a probe you launch and it activates after x seconds."
"yes. the problem with putting the counter on the cyno instead of the caps is that combat cynos will not work then. titan bridges need to be able to instantly send subcaps to a cyno beacon if ccp wants null sec fights of any size to happen (let alone cap fights). i'm in favor of putting a counter on the cap jump itself, but a cyno pilot should be able to instantly bridge a sub cap fleet into combat.in null sec cap fights, sub caps start the fight and caps jump in later, so this really wouldn't change things much out here. it would only limit the small super cap hot drops without support, which is really the problem anyway."
"oh please, what a cop out.eccm is a counter to ecm. does ecm still work?warp core stabilizer is a counter to warp disruptor, does warp disruptor still work?a hardener and armor rep is a counter to weapon damage. do weapons still work?all a cyno counter can do is provide a chance for the other side to win, and chances to win are more dependent on player skill and preparedness."
"this whole mania for facebook advertising by the marketing divisions of various companies is reminiscent of the dot com frenzy before the bubble burst. people were convinced that anything to do with dot coms was a money maker. then they discovered that there was so much of it going on that people filtered it or just couldnt get to it all. burst bubble then, looking for a bursting bubble again.-windjammer"
"personally would love something like this if it were as easy to implement as it sounds"
"joejane pilot should also be able to purchase ammo through this way. it is really painful loading up missile/autocannon ships with different ammos of every type."
"great idea"
"i will support proposals that let me sell you overpriced items faster."
"the fitting should add the ammo to cargo too."
"i would not protest if the saved fittings included the varieties of ammunition either. i believe that this option would be easiest to implement.after all, anything that allows players to get back into a fight (pve or pvp) is a good thing. or to get into a fight in the first place. ^_^"
"seems like a good approach to me .it might even cut down on server resource usage ? if i undertand it right as the hit and hit quality won't be in doubt other than a range calculation, no calculations about angular velocity between the two ships would be needed. i'd imagine that calculation can get a bit recursive and from my very limited programing experience i remember recursive calculations can be pretty taxing at time ?of course, ignoring speed would be a major change.it would add to the uniqueness of the weapon ...excellent frigate killers ... and would make its roll specific adantage large enough to overcome their lack of flexibilty in range and damage type.."
"and allow us to set passwords for different divisions in the wallet to keep large amounts of isk safe from my own foolish."
"i saw many people making proposals how to solve bots problem, and in every time one of the reasons against it was \"bots read client memory and nothing can be done\"this is first solution (that i saw) that cant be answered with that answer becouse bots cant read pictures. and becouse of that i suport this very much!some ppl love to answer \"nothing can be done\" or \"do nothing, players must kill them\"we all know who talks like that...you can't do anything to bots by killing them. they loose like 150m, yes, but they earn billions per week. they just buy another hulk and continue to earn their free billions.and about load on server... bots are creating unnecessary load!you all could saw in devs blog how load decreased after ccp banned that much bots.so with this you will maybe increase load by fiew %, but with les bots load will decrease by like 30%and one more + for this is that it can be implementad easier then any other solution.that was my 5 cents."
"so to kill off bots, you want to use captcha. thisnidea is not new, and certainly not worth implementing. the proposal certainly does not prevent bots from operating, and serves to inconvenience real players.do pvpers want to have a permit for every time they fire a weapon?we already have a permit for all in game activities, that is the subscription fee."
"captcha??? again!?!?! wtf!!!machines are heaps better at solving most captcha when compared to how many attempts a human needs to get them right.they have been scientifically proven to be complete crap.even if you run some kinda social network, never resort to the dumb idea which is captcha.got an awesome captcha? ever heard of amazon mechanical turk?never supported."
"i'm not saying its easy. and maybe they could still jump. but the idea that they can jump *and* the enemy faction on the other side of the gate can't even shoot them without going gcc is a horrible mechanic. this needs to be fixed as it clearly makes neutral pilots more valuable to the war cause than pilots who actually enlist."
"they would need a much better (as if eve doesn't already need it) control interface to do something like this and have it worth while.i still support it though."
"supported.it reminds me of freelancer (what an awesome game, btw).the background nebulas made sense and space actually was fun to \"explore\", to find new jumpholes, hidden stations, huge wrecked ships, etc..i remember flying through that abandoned mothership in the omicron alpha system...memories"
"this."
"that's what i was picturing when i read your post, op.i don't know if ccp has the time or manpower to get stuff like this done, but i can agree one of eve's biggest faults is its lack of visual adventure. lots of cool artwork but it's all just pinups to look at."
"supported.it sounds fair and works well. seems to be the only people complaining are those afraid to lose their risk free scam. besides, shouldn't we have a market that makes sense?"
"i understand that some don't make much sense but the same holds true for many moon materials as well.i think the benefit of fixing the pi market vastly outweighs that issue.also supporting my own proposal."
"you can't revert reactions (advanced materials are fixed and can't be recycled).all you can do is recycle the t2 components and get advanced materials. for comparison: this would be like recycling pos modules or whatever comes after the advanced commodities. as this is the case you're fine.you even have a case that's way worse.. t3 subsystems. those are made from subsystem components and can't be recycled. so if you want something to be recyclable start there.. not with the pi stuff./not supported, working like everything else"
"bump or i shall repeatedly smartbomb jita 4-4 on the test server with my kronos."
"marauders: battleship-class vessels, intended for prolonged frontline deployment.almost sounds like they are supposed to be for pvp... but their attributes make them solely pve ships."
"issue: low sex is an unhabited wasteland that is used as a dangerous highway to get between point a and b with no compelling reason to stay there. activities that before used to occur in lo sec such as missions and mining have all but disappeared and even pirates are starting to feed on each other out of sheer boredom.proposed solution: rebalance all pve content in lo sec to be doable with pvp fits, and to better reflect a pvp environment. this means a reasonable amount of pvp fitted buffer tanked, not too isk intensive ship setups should be viable for completing lo sec missions. also upgrade the payouts and spawns in them to make them more worthwhile, and perhaps most important: give all lo sec mobs sleeper ai which does not stick with the first thing targeted forever and targets on the base of threat, health, etc.rationale: the proposals that i have seen here to fix lo sec tend to focus on downgrading high sec, and to come from self righteous \"pirates\" that think they are somehow entitled to shoot defenseless pve setups. this, i believe, misses the main problem with the pve content that makes participation in it so unrewarding: the mission balance is ill thought off, making pve content both unrewarding, and requiring massive isk investments in ships to complete, ships which are for all purposes defenseless against a decently fit pvp setup. consequently, nobody not in an unprobeable t3 tends to participate in this content.my proposal is to rebalance the missions to be in line with the territory, favoring buffer tanks and standard pvp setups, and making such fits bot able to complete the content and to do so in a reasonable time frame. furthermore, the situation where mobs stick with the first thing they target is ridiculous, resulting in an automatic gang bang for whoever had the aggro when the pirates warp in.the proposal would address this, since barging in in a mission would no longer be a mindless affair where the missioner is usually pre engaged, pre damaged, and sometimes pre scrammed, but a fluid battlefield with risk for both the missioner and the attacker.why this should be done: i know of a lot of people that enjoy pvp and would enjoy participating in lo sec content such as l5 missions, however at this time, engaging in those activities is akin to a death wish; a plump turkey flying into the wolfs den. i contend that making the content reflect the area and the reasonable setups for that area as well as transforming static death traps into compelling fluid battlefields where there is a risk for the attacker as well and a possibility to defeat them, would go a long way towards reinvigorating the area.furthermore it would provide a compelling and alluring experience for players; which would be distinctive both from hi sec missions, and null belt ratting, just as it should be, delivering more small gang warfare, and more population across lo sec as a whole, as the risk and rewards would be in harmony and the ship setups would be reasonable and balanced."
"the only problem with lo sec is hi sec. the entire spectrum needs to be worked on."
"changing high security missions isn't going to affect low security missions significantly. gallians is right, i would never fly a plump turkey into a wolf's den.i support the original proposal."
"because sex is too low."
"the problem is that people have this idea that low sec can compete with hi sec."
"this would be great. have \"slots\" for missions, a place where the mission name and accept/decline buttons go. if you decline a mission you would have to wait 4 hours until the game gives you a new mission (all by itself, you don't have to ask for one) and the get a new mission now for a loss of standings would be removed, you would be unable to get a new mission in that slot for 4 hours (mission would be grayed out)."
"what will really happen is pilots will farm more missions in their existing mission hub.the way to spread mission runners out is to limit the number of missions the agents give out at all. one the well runs dry, it only fills up again very slowly. this will push mission runners out to agents that actually have missions to offer.combine this with a listing of which mission runners consumed the most missions from each agent, we might see some actual pvp arising due to competition for the good agents.there is no reason to make life easier for mission runners."
"no they won't. no more missions means end of subscriptions for ccp. carebears won't use border agents and go to lowsec, it's won't happen. being able to select highsec missions out of a list means carebears will go back to the better paying border agents rather than staying in a overcrowded deep highsec hub running a poorly paying agent."
"yeah, let's fight bots and rmt by making them more simple to setup let's extend this idea, and instead of making the same mission again and again, just spawn the isk 5 times a day, and lp 10 times a day to everyone docked in an agent station."
"supported."
"on this topic, the following thread is an excellent proposal that goes well with this one:"
"i like the basic idea of having a few different missions to choose from. this would be a sort of solution for people who don't want to fight against some specific faction, without forcing them to have multiple agents in the area or stop from missioning for the 4 hours. i'm not going to comment on how many mission slots you should have available or how long the cooldown timer should be, since they are a side issue from my point of view. they can be tweaked to whatever seems balanced once you decide to go through with the basic idea.what i do not like about this is, that the number of slots is based on your standings. it is a logical alternative, but this is as good a chance to inroduce a new and meaningful charisma based skill to eve as we propably will ever get. as a bonus it could also be a high rank social skill, since the benefits are obvious to everyone who has ever flown missions on a regular basis. using standings as the basis for the extra slots will also make the beenfit apply only to high level missions. is there any reason you would want to do this? surely the extra slots would be desirable on lower levels too. if you use a skill for the extra slots, the benefits of the system will also show up on missions of all levels and not just on higher levels. support for the general idea though."
"i think rather then choosing a specific mission you should be able to choose either the mission for more money and small standing increase or the mission for no/small amount of money but larger standing increase. it would defo stop it being such a grind just so i can refine or use a specific r+d agent for that corp"
"i for one, welcome our new sansha overlords"
"bump"
"what are you talking about?"
"if you want cap protection from nuets, fit specifically for an insane cap. use cap recharger, batteries and rigs to make it impossible to cap you out. or... deal with it, like i do (good method is use a nos to cap him out, and have projectile guns, so you can still shoot)."
"maybe that would work if i were playing station games or some other high-sec carebear bs, but not in 0.0 or even low-sec for that matter.let's look at it this way folks....gallente have several ships that get a bonus to active tanking. let's take a myrmidon for example.even fit w/ autocannons, once you put on a cap booster (or two) you've still got to power, at minimum, 2 medium armor reppers that suck even more cap because of the (at least 1) nanobot accelerator i rig. then you've also got your scram, web, ab/mwd, and whatever else you like in your mid slots, an possibly an active hardener or 2. once you stick only the ammo you'd need for a short roam and fill the rest of your hold w/ cap boosters, you'll still only have enough to get you through 2 or 3 good fights.now lets imagine you run into a gang of 4 or 5 frigates, lets say, jags, wolves, and a dramiel....no problem, right. your scram/web combo whould be enough to let your drones pull them apart....wrong. they each have a small neut fitted. now, your cap boosters can't pump the juice fast enough to keep up w/ the drain because of reload times and before you know it, your myrm is an insurance claim and the frigs are running for bigger ships to scoop your loot, including the cap booster charges still in your hold when you blew up.so, here's the deal. if i'm going to spend a few million on a ship, it damn well better have an auxillary generator, battery back-ups, or something to keep me from being capped out. i can buy something to lower my chances of getting jammed, scrammed, tracking disrupted, and sensor damped, and there are drugs to counter target painting effects, but there isn't a damn thing i can do about nos/neut.eve is a big game of chess. for every move, a counter move. nos/neut has no counter. cap boosters are not a counter and neither are cap rechargers etc as \"fitting for insane cap\" is possibly the stupidest thing i've ever heard since there's no way of telling whether or not you're actually going to encounter cap warfare or not and wasting the slots on such a fitting is utterly moronic.hope i've cleared up things a little and given you an idea of the kinds of scenarios i had in mind when i proposed this. i think it would be a boon to active tanked ships and make even the venerable hyperion a more atractive ship to fly in pvp."
"cap batteries should be immune to nos/neut, protecting the amount of cap the battery is worth."
"/me approves of this proposal"
"it needs electronics 5 engineering 5 weapons upgrade 5 and advanced weapons upgrade 4 atm just to fit tech 1 fmp's, 800mm plate and a mwd, and that squeezes in by 0.5 powergrid"
"exactly my fitting skills. let's see here:[omen1]focused medium pulse laser ifocused medium pulse laser ifocused medium pulse laser ifocused medium pulse laser ifocused medium pulse laser iy-t8 overcharged hydrocarbon i microwarpdrivej5 prototype warp disruptor i'langour' drive disruptor if85 peripheral damage system i'skadi' coolant system iadaptive nano plating ienergized basic adaptive nano plating800mm reinforced nanofiber plates i[empty rig slot][empty rig slot][empty rig slot]308/312.5 cpu908/912.5 pgnothing over meta 34.5cpu and pg to spare, plus a point, web, dcu, hs, and res plating.here's a t2 version for those with hull upgrades and weapon upgrades 4 (an extra week and a half of training <gasp>):[omen2]focused medium pulse laser iifocused medium pulse laser iifocused medium pulse laser iifocused medium pulse laser iifocused medium pulse laser iiy-t8 overcharged hydrocarbon i microwarpdrivej5 prototype warp disruptor i'langour' drive disruptor idamage control iiheat sink iiadaptive nano plating iiadaptive nano plating ii800mm reinforced rolled tungsten plates imedium ancillary current router i[empty rig slot][empty rig slot]295.8/312.5 cpu963.2/1004 pgyeah, it uses a pg rig. but the extra 65dps and 3.4k ehp are worth it.tl:dr - yeah it's tight but not 0.5pg with those skills tight."
"i'll get to the point. eve needs a new manual control system. point and double click is awful to me, and just leaves a lot of possible content in this game out automatically. please note that i, in no way, advocating for removal of any of the automatic control systems as they are now. all i want is the following.-2 controls, one for deceleration, the other for acceleration. for this, there would be a bar on the speedometer (or whatever it's called) at the bottom of the screen that shows to what point you're accelerating too. once the actual speed reaches this desired point, the ship stops accelerating. the ship can also go backwards very slowly by pressing the deceleration button further.-toggle key for wasd -qe controls for the ship. essentially, w is up, a is down, and so forth. q and e rotate the ship. hold another button (possibly shift, or whatever your choice) and then press q or e at the same time to strafe.-possible joystick controls should also be optional. keep in mind that such controls would mainly benefit possible features of the game that could still be developed and give eve a much more immerse feeling.that is all."
"that is not eve.not supported."
"this is quite possibly the worst reason i have ever seen for not supporting an idea. a cookie for you.honestly, i don't see why you wouldn't support it since it doesn't take away from any of the current options, but rather just adds to them, and doesn't alter gameplay at all unless you really want to use it 24/7... even then, it wouldn't be game-breaking at all."
"what is \"backwards\"? is that something like heading forwards in a different direction?check out the new keyboard shortcuts on singularity. i think you will be pleasantly surprised."
"not a new idea.use"
"this idea has been proposed, and debated, ad nauseum. please, thank you for your input, but do search the forums before proposing a common idea. you are sure to find a thread with a long debate, and worked out proposal on it. no need to make a new one.and no, not supported for now - the reason is the server load this would cause. also, remember that you are commanding a starship, not flying a fighter craft, wasd would maybe make sense for frigates, but hardly anything larger than a cruiser."
"this bug wasnt discovered on the test server , that why i posted ot heretheres the same issue with militia corps wardekking another militia corp. => can only see them when you put militia members on overview tooi personally think its because when you uncheck the 'pilot has neutral standing' button in the states tab, militia wartargets (having neutral standing) disappears tooperhaps ccp could modify the overview settings so that the system is not 'what you dont want to see , you untic' but 'what you want to see , you tic'anybody understood that last line?"
"yep the killmail should accuratly show what killed your ship."
"while i do agree that non combat players should be aloud to bet on the fight...i do not agree that it should be instanced arena combat... it should be on the field in regular space...furthermore to avoid exploits threw suicide ganking... the contract becomes null and viod if either ships are killed by non registered combatants...here is how you win1. whomever does more total damage (this includes repped damage) to the other player wins only the isk at risk... (this is in the situation where niether player can kill the other)2. if a player leaves the field of combat (250km radius from start of fight) then the other player wins the isk at risk...3. which ever player is left alive after the fight gets salvage rights to the wreak and the isk at risk..."
"it's just gonna break down to \"who has more neutral logis\" anyway."
"exactly. i won't change anything. now it will just be getting jumped by 1 guy... and his 19 neutral basilisks.\"plus ca change, plus c'est la meme chose.\""
"perhaps you did not read that part when any non combat player tries to either rr or attack either combat player concord steps in and kills them....or are you suggesting that you will have enough rr to tank concord?"
"there are a lot of threads discussing cyno-jammers, jump-dislocators and other ideas to prevent hotdrops.i recently came to the realisation that the objective with changes to the jump-mechanics should be to make capitals vulnerable if tricked and not just to insure that you don't get ganked by bored rich kids.what i think would work:- add a fuel modifier based on security of destination system (ex. times 5 ((sec x 10)+1) to jump into a 0.4 system). that alleviates the hotdrops into low-sec but doesn't remove it .. just ups the cost and add possible logistics factor.- add a module (hic's only perhaps?) that works in null and low-sec. when activated on a grid with a cyno, either before or after lighting, any jumps to said cyno consumes all fuel in bay.- remove ability to store fuel in corporate hangars in carriers and scs and/or add a limited storage capacity for refuelling purposes.result:- capitals jumping to an interdicted system without spare fuel become stranded (read: vulnerable) until fuel can be brought in .. introduces the sadly lacking idea of supply lines and tender ships.- makes cross cluster jumping and low-sec hotdrops more of a challenge with logistics involved rather than just pressing a button a few times.- makes capitals proper assets that takes thought to use and not just a random ship that can be thrown around willy nilly.addendum:- create an armoured version of the jump freighter to act as tender ships that can follow a capital task force around with fuel/ammo.reduced carrying capacity and maybe even some limited fitting options (no high slots though, don't want cloaks on them!).- if fuel becomes an issue it could/should be added as a product manufacturable through pi."
"i think a cruise battery does 17 dps, before damage mitigation. they are unspeakably bad. the only reason that people don't really care is that no has any sp invested in pos batteries."
"switch agents."
"it's a bad suggestion to decline courier missions just because you don't like them.there are already too many occasions that i have to deny missions just because they want me to kill minmatar or gallente..."
"while raising standings for non-combat alts, courier missions are quite welcome. while my main is busily blasting through combat missions the alt can afk ap the courier mission. very low reward, but there is no risk or interaction required.yes, it is easy to bot. how would you modify courier missions in order to make them less mechanical? ideas that occur to me after a few seconds of superficial thought include having the agent redirect the shipment mid-mission, require the player to carry contraband, have a delivery that must be made inside a particular window of time (no sooner than x, no later than y), or multiple items, only a small number of which need to be dropped off at a number of stations along the route.imho, removing courier missions altogether will hurt more players than botters."
"they could make it a mission type where you move goods through deadspace areas trying to avoid npcs and sensor grids... which would be dynamic so it would be harder to bot them."
"if you want to run combat missions in a mammoth, go ahead and do so :pi would prefer courier missions staying like they are now.bthe macros that get blown up by suicide bankers will be losing standings for failing missions - it all adds up eventually."
"bots already have perfect standings from running 23/7. you'll lose sec faster than they lose standings."
"yes, lets behave like headless chicken and kill a completely decent type of mission just to satisfy our craving for security against what we perceive as a threat. now where did i hear something like that in rl again..."
"i always hated that center for advanced studies only had advisory agents, and even more when my level 3 agent gave me 6 courier missions into lowsec in a row. courier missions have some flaws that i'm not entirely sure how to work out. but that's not a good justification for removing them.not supported.as it stands, the best way to make money and/or raise standings via courier missioning is to get a good storyline agent so that the quick courier missioning pace keeps the storyline missions rolling. the best way to thwart macro miners then is to keep courier missions short and low-pay, and make sure storyline missions are complex enough that macros can't complete them."
"not supported the more kind of missions the better imo i might have supported this if we had to many kinds of mission tho"
"i must say i a sorry to rented. i was wrong on the way that would work out. as a side note it would have also inc. damg on smaller ships too. i am suprized that did not come up as well. loli think you for helping me to better understand turrent weapons."
"i think the reason hybrids keep slipping by unchanged is that the caldari ships do fine with missiles and the gallente ships do fine with drones. that puts the pure hybrid ships mostly or completely out of business.an easy fix: boost the hybrid weapon bonuses on ships that rely heavily on them.a balanced fix: listen to a lot of the player ideas here about fixing them and come up with a new setup that puts them right alongside other weapon types. and then to balance things out, make sure that the drone and missile ships that can use hybrids don't become overpowered because of it. possibly remove a turret hardpoint from most drone boats, and missile ships are probably fine since they don't have hybrid bonuses anyway."
"it's called petition."
"it was escalated and allthough the gm and senior gm replies have been read on various forums they can't be shown on this one.basicly what this 1 corp did is similar to the wardec cleaning alliance you mentioned but you are allowed to leave an alliance that has a war and you are allowed to rejoin said alliance again later. i think a fair minded gm or senior gm for that matter could have used discretion in this and deemed it an exploit but i know this isn't a unique case and having dealt with similar cases they have to show consistency even if it is becoming glaringly obvious it's wrong.i'm still waiting for more csm viewpoints on this and indeed other aspects of the wardec system. i'm sure potential voters are as well!"
"do a bit of research. that ruling was rescinded. you can find relatively recent tread (2-3 months ago) were there were senior gm comments stating that leaving a wardecced alliance is non exploit under any circumstance, included a reinforced pos."
"i have no experience in wardec mechanics, but would this be a viable patch to current mechanics for this problem:when a corp a leaves an alliance with an active war vs corp b, corp a is automatically at war with corp b for 24 more hours. the 24 hours are treated like the last day in a war-week.this may cause problems due to the limit on active wars permitted by corps, but i'm not sure what problems that would cause."
"it would have to be the latter, everyone knows she has none of the former."
"i agree, services like police are pair for by taxes and fines. no one should need to bribe concord to do there job in highsec, not to mention it would create a tremendous isk sink. there is enough oppunities for destruction in highsec as it stands, and it would make it a lot harder smaller player corps, expaically those just starting off.however the idea of possible extra protect in lowsec could bring more people to lowsec. for example possibly paying other npc police corportations to provide limited protection, say if you have a pos in a particular system."
"i enjoyed reading your articles.thanks for postingcheers!dardol"
"well, you have to look at it this way. ccp has only so much money to spend on fanfest, so the options were:1) spend a lot of money on booth babes (aka summer glau instant virgin detectors). hundreds of players totally fail to get anywhere with them, and drown their sorrows in astronomically over-priced icelandic booze.2) spend the booth-babe money on subsidizing alcohol sales. hundreds of players depressed by the lack of booth babes drown their sorrows in only stratospherically over-priced icelandic booze.it was a tough call, but that's what we're (not) paid for. you will note that we fought hard to get you cheaper alcohol at the party at the top of the world, in the hopes that more inexpensive intoxication would induce a particularly potent beer-goggle effect in the icelandic maidenry."
"so you are saying particularly potent beer-goggles are required to enjoy the icelandic maidenry?"
"beer...babes....beer....babes........cut the babes by half....and spend the money in beer support.....where's the point in being drunk if i cant get humiliated by trying to hit on an uber hot girl?!?!?call me a dreamer but i will fight the system.....ccp beer&babes(tm) please!"
"soooo, is it wednesday yet?"
"sorry could you type everything again and spell like you actually give a ****."
"so true!!! thumbs up ivar!here you can find a csm response to that : csm beervsbabes"
"more thumbs up!!"
"given the amount of added value this would bring i can't help but support it.heh \"support\""
"roflmao, this topic is probably going to be the highlight of my day. not quite sure if i support it or not, i think it'd be awesome and amazing and it'd give a lot more, i dunno, boobness into the game.but i'm honestly going to say that i'd prefer them to spend more time on things that need worked on and will affect the overall gameplay of eve."
"i can imagine how the actual female players feel about this."
"bump"
"csm is aware, they're just incapable of working together and coming up with a solution, that and ankhasemtapemkah was really the only person who brought up any gallente-related issues at all.... funnily enough she got booted.you won't see anything - at all - until next csm. these guys have mostly been focused on getting ccp to be more responsive after the disaster that was tyrannis."
"being someone who checks killboards on csm people before voting, i am under the impression that several fly gallente ships from time to time.i would point out that gallente recons are pretty good. i would put them in 2-3rd place of the races. minmatar recons are an easy last place for those recons. for carriers, scarriers, dreads, gallente are general top picks. gallente titan is fairly meh though. the rest of the gallente line up is pretty non-functional.it won't happen with this csm because this csm has been busy kicking ccp to clean out the backlog of all the stuff csm proposed and ccp said \"we'll do that\" then hadn't. no sense adding to the backlog unless it is something that needs immediate attention. the majority of sub-cap gallente ships have sucked for roughly two years now, so i wouldn't consider it a rush that needs to sideline other things to fix right now.that said, i support gallente attributes and bonuses being fixed across the board."
"you didn't read the thread did you?this thread is not about the consequences of adding nudity or futanari to the expansion. it is about the choice of weather or not they should be in the expansion. things like how it is implemented, ratings and censorship are not part of the decision making process of this thread. this thread is solely for people to support if they think incarna should follow the lore close enough that gender is optional in gallente stations."
"supported"
"supported."
"i would do it like this:main char is 100% training speed. if you want a 2nd char on the same account your training speed is 1/2 on that char and a 3rd 1/3 on that char."
"why not throwing in a plex on the second or third character to start the skillqueue until the plex is gone ?wouldnt hurt anyone."
"this is exactly what i'm doing witch you agree make more income for ccp for the meanwhile, but (the but in the butter) once i have the skills needed, i'll just close the other account and so somehow falsified subscriptions statistics.this in not a valid option to determinate the good direction the game is taking to improve it and grow the number of real new subscribers, or, have real numbers about the positive interest the game has to attract new players.if all the guys plaing several alts with plex tomorrow decides to close 1 or 2 accounts just to prove they have more impact than you think, i'm pretty sure there would be some panic.at the end, if you want to play several char at the same time, you still need to have more accounts than the guy that chooses to play one or the other char in his single account."
"thank you for your support. yah...there's a whole lot that's weird in new eden.[8)]the mach is a battleship, it's as big of bigger than carriers, people carry around 10 cubic meters worth of implants in their skulls, etc...could be, but i think that gameplay supersedes spatial concerns. treat implants similar to mods on a ship, after all, there's no reason that any of the guns, engines, etc... of a ship would be intact after it was blown into scrap."
"you are mixing your quotes. i never cited fiction. i cited rl and and a logic approach to the game. no one will use a station that is extremely dangerous. even the pirates of the caribbean had rules and killing wasn't rampant. and if you really need an explanation why it will become halo (or any other first person shooter) as soon as you give access to weapons and the possibility to combat in a station outside of a full invasion of the station, you suffer from a lack of comprehension on how people play. even if people interested in \"killing for fun and murdermails\" would be 1/100 of the eve playerbase they will make moving around in any populated station a game of room to room combat. you can think that it will be fun, but i don't play eve to participate in a fps."
"ahh, the same wonderful factual refutation: the argument from nuhn unh!!!the fact that we're already allowed to gank anybody, anywhere, and the game hasn't turned into freespace ii shows that if we're allowed to gank people in stations, that won't turn into halo. to say nothing of the fact that many people will still be playing the spaceship game and not space barbie. (feel free to respond with \"nuhn unh!!!\") talk about a lack of logic...currently, you can't even get out of your pod and do anything, at all. even when you can, the plan is to only let you play space barbie. obviously you don't play eve to play space barbie, because it does not exist. obviously you don't play eve to do stuff when you get out of your pod, because that's impossible. so if first/third/whatever combat is added in stations, and you totally ignore it, it will be the same game, for you that it's always been."
"i completely agree with opinion that at stations firing or at least fights should be possible.now, the station too safe place also was always safe, but it seems to me that would be more interesting, if the player knew that it is sometimes more safe to sit in the own ship, than to be at station.in the second turn, the player should understand that without using possibility to leave a capsule, he loses any interesting and unique useful things.for example, to the player with the low security status or have a bounty on him it would be more dangerous at military station caldari, gallente, amarr or minmatar, than to the player with the high security status.if the player hates amarr race it is more dangerous to it to be at the stations belonging amarr, than on any others.if at the player the high security status it is more dangerous to him to be at piracy stations. for example, station of angel cartel.it would be interesting, if having come into a bar, it was possible to receive the interesting missions not similar to the old.in additives, it would be interesting, if it was possible to spend diversions in various sites of station, for example, temporarily to break some of her functions.it seems to me that the station from within, should be a small prototype of a star-map in which there are the safe systems, dangerous and very dangerous systems, and also such in which not so simply to get access.if at station it will be not interesting, the player won't have a powerful stimulus to leave the capsule, only to walk and play in an arcade in a bar.separately it is necessary to take into consideration, outposts and stations belonging to players.presence of personal premises in which access will be interesting to owners of stations will be possible only at them and-or their corporation/alliance."
"lol, you drive around in a car attached to an assembly line with industrial robots? sounds like it wouldn't manage to turn the tight corners."
"good stuff. this is the sort of brainstorming that, i hope, is going to be going on back at ccp."
"on the technical side of things, i could definitely see this being possible if they used instancing in stations. since a station is much smaller than the universe, i don't see why this feature couldn't be implemented at the very least on a basic level. the main problem being developing the combat mechanics/engine to handle it, but since they're already building incarna, i'm assuming they have at least a basic framework given dust as well. but i'd definitely say that the best way to avoid performance issues would be to instance the stations in some way. either have each \"deck\" be its own enclosed space, having to use an elevator or lift to access the next area and thus help with performance, or something akin to that since i can foresee some technical issues in stations like jita, where everybody and their mother is in a station. another idea is perhaps limiting this sort of interaction to non-trade hubs. so stations like jita, you wouldn't be able to do any sort of combat, but all other less populated stations, you can. lore wise you can say that in jita, everyone gets scanned/patted down and weapons are left at the door."
"the lore of the game is that it is the capsule which downloads your mental information and which sends it to a clone, as well as the device that ensures the death of the capsuleer.ganking in stations does not fit at all with that.i would like to see this but it would have to be controlled strongly.idiots suicide ganking with biomassable no skill characters comes to mind as the first concern. and i think i'd like to see incarna and wis before thinking either way."
"not supported. docking is no combat. undocking is rock and roll time."
"the idea consists that while you haven't left a capsule and you haven't gone for a walk on station, you stay in absolutely safety.just as and earlier.but at station it is safe only in safe sectors.the capsule can transfer mind of the character to cloning station on huge distances.probably, within the station a lot of power it is not necessary for information transfer?"
"please read the official lore that is associated already with pod pilots walking around in stations. in fact, jita station is where this chronicle takes place. even there, pilots can go places where they could be killed.seems to me that ccp is definitely planning for stations to not be happy-happy-unicorns-and-rainbows land."
"they've already invested a lot of time and resources in incarna, they might as well let it pay off and make it fun. incarna is already beyond the spaceship game, better if it has some pewpew instead of just dressing dolls.supported."
"see, this is just completely disrespectful of the game's lore as well as any sort of verisimilitude. anything they put into the game has to be in some way believable, barring abstractions they put in for convenience's sake (i.e. instant docking, no crew management). allowing people to run around high-security stations with arms in hand completely breaks any sort of willing suspension of disbelief. it just doesn't make any sense and, as long as you continue to ignore the issue, it never will, as it is simply illogical.perhaps in low-security stations and pirate havens they may have a policy of weapon possession in-station. that, and nullsec stations where the owner sets the policy, are the only places where i can possibly imagine it being allowed. if it were allowed exclusively in those situations i could support it. otherwise, it's just putting in gamey-ness for the sake of it."
"the problem is not if the capsuleer could be killed, but whether he could be cloned in the same fashion as in a capsule. yes, there is a framework for capsuleers walking around. is there one for dying and coming back outside of a capsule?"
"sound like words of player which is afraid of nullsecs and constantly crying.in books, films, cartoons, other games scenarios there is no \"pirates\", crimes, bad and mad peoples can be everywhere where it is possible and impossible? how about real life?i think that it in general the basic part of of all films and serials. i even can't imagine a film where it wouldn't be. maybe only in melodramas.in such cases a question usually in what pluses and minuses of criminal actions in concrete places and a cases.i agree that in systems with high security status, to bad guys should be is more difficult to do dirty work, than in systems with low level security and their illegal actions should be punished more strongly.to get a gun - already should be aggression in hisec-stations.also at the station there should be safe zones and risk zones in which just and there can be a fight or firing.but duly a realism genre, it should be present at game.at stations sansha, angel, guristas, serpentis, can be on the contrary more safe for bad guys, than for the good.also there should be a possibility to remain in a capsule in the dock on old tradition.in that case we should be in perfect security at station.safety everywhere it is unreal and uninteresting.dark dangerous space and even at home bad peoples may kick your ass if there are no other good people nearby like security officers - it is a real interesting scenario."
"no, but we should be able to poison people who fail jumped. have bar room brawls. occasional knifing. maybe push people into airlocks and jettison them. set explosives in their room. regular eve stuff. there's plenty of mayhem we should be able to do in stations that would fit eve but will apparently not be released.they should lose the sp they gained since the last time they were in the pod. definitely should lose any implants they have in. honestly, that isn't the weirdest thing i think will happen with incarna - what happens when a character is in station and disconnects? emergency warp? does the character run for the nearest bathroom? does the character just dematerialize?"
"stop. stop right there. trying to attribute qualities to me that i have never exhibited symptoms of is a very, very easy way to completely remove anything you say of any sort of credibility whatsoever. i am concerned about believability. i am not concerned about safety. i am concerned my immersion will be broken by someone walking up to someone in the middle of a high-security station filled with all kinds of sensors and cameras with a weapon in hand, through some nebulous, incredible miracle. even if that guy is shot dead as soon as the weapon is pulled, my immersion has been broken. the illusion is gone. maybe you can understand that better? and stop trying to pretend i'm being some kind of imaginary carebear crybaby.i can support brawls, because that actually makes sense. explosives less so (again, security at every checkpoint), but the other stuff makes far more sense than people walking around with guns in hand in places they clearly should not have them."
"+1 supported more needed than just walking."
"it is a great idea. there are some who will argue with something like, \"eve is for spaceshipz!!\" but whatever lol.if they do this it will no doubt take a while for us to get it but hey man awesome idea, supported."
"i have told that it \"sounds like\", but hasn't told that it is truth. anyway sorry for that. not all of people write on english i can translate correctly :]p.s.the strange thought has jumped in a head: one character in a hangar winds an 10 meters orbit around other character and avoids half of damage from its assault blaster.miss, hit, miss, hit."
"right, i think thats just about enough derailing thankyou. may i suggest you go back through all the old info on the development of eve, go ask a dev or a gm, ask some of the older players or even email ccp themselves and ask one question \"what has been your vision for eve from the beginning?\" or i can save you all that time and effort and tell you right now. from the very beginning eve was destined not only to be an \"internet spaceships\" game, but a fully realised sci-fi universe, with as many layers to it as possible. ccp started to build this universe with pew pew in outer space and once their income was assured and a playerbase established, the plan moved ahead.work began on the next step in creating this sci-fi universe, its development title being \"walking in stations\" a rather bland name for what is essentially the other half of this game world. now 5 years on and with a real deployment name of \"incarna\" we are almost there, the universe for us is almost complete. to you incarna seems to be fluff and nonsense, you think it is taking time away from fixing other things that you deem more important, yet what you fail to realise is that the people working on incarna were hired to do just that. no-one responsible for bug hunting, patch deployment or any of these other areas you deem important have been re-tasked to work on incarna. it has its own team of people and its own section of the budget and it doesn't interfere with anything else. your bugs will be hunted, your fixes deployed and the world will keep turning on its axis. so calm down, read up on how ccp/whitewolf operate, realise that \"the masses\" don't tell ccp how to spend its money or its resources and for god sake cheer up."
"yeah, a bit weird, innit?"
"i support idea!if our character, shortly, ceases to be a simple portrait, the height choice will be necessary for him and also it is necessary to think of other parts of a body, such as hands, feet, a neck."
"support this idea"
"maybe a 1' range, but different height for different races.imho:gallente - normal, females shorter (todays average)caldari - taller, males & females have same range (they're ****s bred for war)minmatar - shorter, males & females have same range (hardy folk)amarr - varied, females shorter (many systems/races subjugated)or something like that without going the elves/dwarfs path..."
"more diversity can only be good, the editor already has quite limited options .."
"supported!i doubt they'll implement it but i'd love to see more ways to tell characters apart from a distance or in a crowd. height would certainly help, if we could modify our posture would be even better.i'm gonna stop dreaming now :)"
"... whenever that is ..."
"yes, even if the 1 foot was only broken into 3 options (short, normal, tall)."
"wow you are really misinformed. you must have somehow missed the csm minutes where basically ccp told the players representatives that just about every area of spaceships will have to wait for 18 months while they work on incarna and dust. and i am not just talking about bugs  indeed i dont think anything i mentioned was a bug. read the dev blog that followed that showed how few resources at ccp were dedicated to spaceships. it tried to do damage control but basically gave the truth. very few resources were put toward spaceships especially considering that what they counted toward eve also included dust. you should do the reading. read the minutes from the first meeting between ccp and csm. go ahead and tell me how many times they said they were delaying things 18 months to work on this?? i dare you. and the whole point of assembly hall is to tell ccp what the players want. it appears lots of players want ccp to continue to dedicate their resources to cosmetic issues of how they look prancing around stations. im sorry i dont care if i am a foot taller or shorter. i like the game they made with spaceships but it could be allot better, ccp agrees but they are waiting until this incarna stuff is done. yes i know they have a whole science fiction world planned from the beginning. it has dust for the out of space ship fighting. and incarna for strutting around and playing dressup. but lots of people would prefer they not abandon the spaceship part of the game any longer. thats my opinion. get incarna out but for god sakes 18 months (likely 2years) of abandoning the space ship game is long enough. give the space ships at least 18 months of dev time before they turn back to the space barbie part."
"jack you have made your point, please stop derailing this thread. i posted this to find support for my idea, not for people to complain about how their stuff isnt getting dealt with."
"i am going to support this. height is one of the basic attributes of a person, it has to be supported."
"hotdropping sucks. give jumpdrives a healthy amount of spoolup-time. it's a joke capitals are easier to deploy on a tactical level than battleships.capitals should be a strategic element. so hell yes, make it come true."
"not supported. dreads already suck ass as they're only useful vs. structures. carriers should be more than heavy transports that repair said structures. if the hot drop is nerfed, all capital pilots should have their skill points as well as the value of the skill books reimbursed."
"i believe you are taking it way too far, the nerf we are discussing is not an invalidation of hotdrops as a fleet tactic - it is merely a balance.also, why would this balancing ruin it so much for dread/carrier pilots as you say? it has been a common fact now for some time that dreads need a buff, and if you ask me, carriers are fine as they are. focus should be given to actually fixing dreads, and leave the hotdrop mechanic as a topic of its own, which we are discussing here."
"dear lord jesus christ how bad are you players that are getting hot dropped?possibility one: \"hey look guys a single ship just engaged us on a gate. hmm he must have some balls since its 8 on 1\"reason : obvious bait is super obviouspossibility two: \" hey look that crazy dude just lit a cyno what should we do? o we should totally just stay here and see what comes through\"reason : stupid player is stupidthe only time i have ever been hot dropped unexpectedly was.. wait i never have.on top of that any \"spool up\" timer added to either end will have one affect. you cant get capitals to the battlefield in a timely manner.hey look they opened a cyno on grid cyno guy is now primary. or....hey look cyno is up off grid everyone fall back and run the hell away.i really dont mind the idea of an anti cyno bubble or module that has high requirement and stops cynos in an area as thats more tactical but to add spool up timers is uber ******ed."
"say what? if the cyno ship has to decloak then site there with an advert that anyone in system can warp to for any length of time it best be in a deep safe (that doesn't exist anymore) or that cyno ship will be dead within a few seconds. already, i've been in fights where the cyno ship was killed before much of the fleet was able to get through.let alone dropping on an enemy pos or fleet. subcaps need to be able to bridge immediately. caps should have to spool up."
"if a cyno is lit off grid, the fastest way for anything larger than inty to get to it and open fire is about 20 seconds. and that's for short warps.so if that type of delay is acceptable for regular fleet movements - warping between pos's, between gates. why is it suddenly a no-way for caps? caps shouldn't be faster than sub-capsas for on-grid cynos, in combat situations, unless you are lighting it right in the middle of a big hostile blob, you can easily survive 20 seconds. just your standard drake would do.i'd say that 15 second delay between cyno and teleportation plus a cyno jammer module of limited range would be optimal way to bring balance to the whole cyno mechanic. it would fit well with other elements of eve game design."
"supported. :ccp: just seem to be ****ing up even more than normal recently."
"good idea"
"no need to decline the purchase if at least the hull can be purchased. every available module/drone/ammo can be fitted, then the pilot can fly that ship to the next station to get the rest of the kit.but definitely supported!"
"i like it. make it happen, you have your orders."
"its good idea. anything what can make blasters better is good !"
"i'm against all these changes, some of them more (like killmail nerfing, probing change) and some of them less. actually, directional scan range differences i could almost support, but i wouldn't tie them to sensor strenght.and when the hell you would even use the cloak breaking thing? you are doing anomaly with main and keep alt with recon running the cloak breaker? for your information, if the cloaker is going to uncloak, he will do it in the warp at you unless he is in bomber."
"some ideas are good, some are bad, some are ridiculous (set local to delayed? i lol'd)i think you would get more of a response if you suggested things one by one where they could sink or swim in their own merits. as an omnibus of a fix, i am vehemently against it."
"nerf cloaking, killmails and probing??? are you nuts, no offense but not supported"
"i don't care if you offend me, i care if you take the time to actually debate. cloaking is barely nerfed in this idea, probing is buffed really, and killmails... there is no defense for keeping them that isn't complete bull****."
"i'm supporting this. mostly because i find it more positive than negative. actually, the things that i don't find positive towards making a better game probably wouldn't make the game any worse, either.probes do need to be reworked. d-scan is a clunky pos that needs to be changed into something better if local gets removed, killmails put a rather pointless and annoying aspect on the game, imo...but nothing in that post is gamebreaking."
"careful, people might think you are my alt or something."
"no."
"yes."
"please, implement the openid provider on the evegate.killboards (after some minimal modification) will benefit tremendiously, as it will be possible to post killmails and comments under you in-game character name without registering it on every killboard on the planet (and a lot of killboards simply have registrating disabled).evegate will benefit from that too. just think how many players will start to use evegate if they will know that they will be able to login with it on most of killboards."
"would this provide another way for people to try and steal our accounts?"
"the short answer is no."
"1.0"
"i propose that ccp be requested to invest one team of developers to the perpetual job of iterative development of past expansion's content.ccp has been extremely resistant to further development of past content. in some ways, they've been positively dismissive of it (\"nobody ever uses rockets!\"). but now, they've gone and done something very silly: they've proven then can create and invest a team to do this. they just don't want to. but now team gridlock is out there, they're doing excellent work, and they're really thinking about, working on, and making progress with problems created by a past expansion.i propose that when team gridlock is done, they or another team of developers immediately be put to work thinking about, working on, and making progress with problems from other past expansions. this would be a perpetual development team in eve, constantly making the past expansions better. it would not be folded into development of new features, ever. there's no shortage of work for this proposed team:1. fix low-sec faction warfare, for heaven's sake.2. do a new iteration of cosmos missions with rewards that don't suck.3. develop some new sleeper sites; doing the same three sites is a bit dull.4. continue developing and expanding pi.5. retune the early-developed l1-l4 missions. some l1/l2 missions are stupid-hard for a starting player (i'm looking at you, the blockade). some l4 missions are stupid-easy (that'd be you, massive attack).6. develop a few more l4 missions. people have all the current ones memorized.7. give us the t3 frigates and weapons you promised us.8. make certificates not suck.9. engine trails! cyno effects!the list goes on. these are things that are never going to be worked on because the current development teams are so focused on new features. these new features are released, then systematically ignored until three years later, they're fw and cosmos missions.so, formal proposal: i propose that ccp be requested to maintain at least one development team at all times whose focus will be continued iterative development or repair of past content."
"supporting my own proposal."
"yes, ccp keeps stating \"we'll iterate on that later\", but with few exceptions it has never actually been done."
"i think i saw some new level 4's on the test server. i didn't do them though, i was too busy testing other stuff./support"
"do this (except for the part about t3 frigates, horrible idea)"
"yeah, the suggestions on what such a team would work on are just that: suggestions. there are probably 25 other things i could have put down instead.the point is that we keep asking for one or another single item on this list instead of just asking to change the dynamic of how ccp operates. if there's a whole team devoted to making past features better, there's no limit to the number of items they'd eventually get to."
"while i can't agree with every topic you posted, and can think of others you didn't post, i do agree with the core concept. supported."
"i guess this would balance battleships more, i'd love to see this happen"
"just give me a tengu with cruise launchers and the bonuses, a t3 vargur, a 15 drone using t3 domi, a t3 nightmare.thats all you need."
"on the surface, your idea has merit. the problem, as i see it, is that if you put a bow on a megathron, it's just a megathron with a bow. it would be tough for players who unfortunately chose gallente to get behind an idea that would still see the pvp battleship of choice be anything but gallente."
"it does make sense.supported"
"^this!^ as it's a simple fix. however they'll catch on to it before long.how about having the 'roids coming from out of system, barreling in would explain the resupply much better than the 'growing' ones do now.(similar to comets coming from the oort-cloud, that have been disturbed by a dark companion-star)edit: forgot to support"
"it might work but...how about tying the amount mined in a belt to the number/toughness of the rats that spawn there. the more/faster a belt is mined, the more rats and tougher the rats that'll show up. 2 top-end hulks could generate enough rats to kill 1 of them type gig. 3 and without coordinated attacks, 1 of them will die. 4 and even with coordinated efforts, 1 of them will die if not all 4 - 1 after the other. something like this.if you wanted to get a macro miners in highsec, grab some friends, and fly out and jet-can mine the area for a short time. when huge waves of rats show, warp out... dead mining barge/exhumer by npc's. this can remove the effective \"protections\" from highsec botters. you run with a gang of 5 to 10 cruisers fitted with mining lasers and make a belt unsafe simply by mining it. the same with ice or the like too."
"the \"root of the problem\" is that the most monotonic forms of gameplay are the ones that generate the highest incomes. the \"root of the problem\" is that there are no policy restrictions on players logging in 24x7, 30 days per plex. the \"root of the problem\" is that everyone is so focussed on making isk, they forget about the game.restricting the activities of bots to those that a dedicated human player could manage for a sustained period (ie: no more than 8 hours of interaction per day), will at least put the bots on a level playing field with the humans. either limiting the hours that an account can be logged in (or active), or selling plex that grant hours of logged in time rather than 30 days of unfettered play, would do the job. the bots will keep going, but at least they'll be cycling three times as much isk through the plex market into more deserving hands.of course we are at an impasse, since some players want to be able to afk cloak camp a suspected botting system 24x7."
"please read the other hundred of threads about the same idea before posting it again. at least you will think about some of the problems of the suggestion and try to resolve them in your op.1) scannable mining sites in alternative to fixed belts would be a good thing but making the scanning skills mandatory isn't a good idea.the new players already have a lot of skill to train, making another set of them mandatory is counter-productive. learning skills have been removed and now you want to make another set skills.problem is that if you make the on board scanner sufficient to find the mining sites bots will use it and all return to the starting point.2) small mining sites would bother much more corp level mining than bots. bots operate on the principle of minimum wage, so long as they get more than the cost of the subscription, equipment and connection they are ok. 3) ratters need easy to warp locations to rat or a huge increase of encounter sites. again, encounter sites can be found on the on board scanner and bots will not have trouble finding them.4) 0.0 roaming gangs need targets, if all the targets are in locations that require probing to be found they will have problems. the apparently \"easy\" solution is not so easy to apply in reality.a \"easy\" solution for macro bot ratting would be to remove bounties from all the npc and substitute them with \"tokens\" that can be sold to npc (tags sold to concord or enemies of the faction, planetary money that can be sold in any station and so on). but again probably it will not really stop the bots as apparently the drone regions are full of bots that loot and salvage the drone wrecks. they mine 23 hour day, it is not possible without an eula violation. sure, but there is people that stay logged 23 hours day without doing anything active [from guys afk cloaking to orca pilots parking at a pos and giving fleet bonuses while sleeping or working), so banning everyone logged for 23 hours don't work. beside that i am convinced that the advanced macros are capable to log off and log in with another character on the same account or even on a different account. when you are operating 23 hours day the cost isn't the subscription but the hardware, the connection and the loss of money when several account are banned. so the 23 hours/day test will get mostly the guy with the home made macro or the one that has brought a macro from internet (and hasn't jet been burned by the keyloggers in the macro), not the \"professional\" botter. the problem exist, yes, the solutions are easy, no."
"a limit of 8 hour day is highly questionable. some day i have been logged for more than 16 hours.generally i wasn't at the keyboard all that time but mining or hauling stuff around while you are doing the house cores isn't a problem, with a hulk rigged for cargo you can be afk for a decent time and if the asteroid pop you will lose a few or several mining cycles, nothing critical, same thing wile hauling around for 20, 30 jumps, the risk of a suicide gank is a bit higher but nothing critical. similarly i have been logged and afk wile taking a shower, eating, speaking with a surprise guest and so on, leaving eve open and forgotten for hours on a stretch (generally i dock when that kind of thing happen but i will not log off for a supposed 10 minutes interruption, even when it later stretch to hours). so the 8 hours limit would be problematic. i have been in 0.0 fights that have required more than that time between assembling, reaching the destination point and returning and i am not a regular 0.0 denizen. i doubt most of them will be happy of a similar limit. edit:a total hour for week/month would be more manageable but still some people would complain as they will cram long hours of eve play in in some specific periods of the year (holidays, summer and so on)."
"i was under the impression that the hacked client interface allows the user to know the location of everything in the solar system and warp to it without scanning it down.the best solution to bots is find a way to make the client secure. sc****r bots where no where near as efficient as the hacked client bots."
"dont take this the wrong way as i dont like people who bot but its a nessesary evil. there simply arent enough high sec miners to keep up with demand of low ends like trit and pyer with out them becomeing really expensive. dont get me wrong everyone and thier mother would be mining toons if trit ever hit 5 or 6 isk a unit but do you have any idea what that would do to pvp?currently a maelstrom cost about 104ish mil to make. there 10m trit at about 2.2isk per. at 6 isk per this would add almost 35m to this battle ship. imaging what that would do to caps. that doesnt even take into account pyer and mex which will also be greatly affected.as for ratting bots.. ya they should burn in the deepest darket caverns of an std infested 500 pound prostitute."
"fixing mining to stabilize prices is a fairly small deal compared to fixing the game to stop bots."
"the problem is if you \"fix\" the low end minerals then more people mine them instead of high end because its significantly safer and would have to be almost equal to some of the high end ores to make enough supply to fill a reasonable demand. the end result of this is that high ends will go up as less people are mining and thus you have the same problem with ships becoming much more expensive and pvp going down since people cant afford it. thus turning those people towards people who sell isk in order to get thier pvp fix. its a never ending circle of stupid promoted by stupid people who try to make money off the game. (and im not talking about ccp as they have a right to make money off the game.)"
"/supportedhowever, may i add my own set of recommendations?1. make hi-sec grav sites accessible only through mission agents. in order to accept a mining mission from an agent, you should be required to enter a randomized \"gotcha\" code (distorted letters that computers can't understand on the screen). the grav site is then randomly generated for you.2. in addition to moving ores from the common belts to the need-to-scan gravimetric sites, place a spawn timer on the grav site. say about 3-4 hours before it despawns (with or without the ore being mined). if the ore is drained from the grav site before the despawn timer, the site will not regenerate on the same spot for you.3. when you're done with the mission, you have to wait at least 6 hours to accept a new mining mission if you want to mine in the same system. if you go to another system, you can accept a new mining mission immediately.4. you will only be allowed to complete \"x\" number of mining missions per day.5. only a limit of \"x\" number of grav sites can be generated per system so that mining missions for different players will lead different players to the same grav sites so as to promote competition among miners.6. the grav site should have more ore than what the mission agents require so that the rest can be up for grabs.7. grav site restrictions and quantities would change according to the system's security status.8. the higher the agent's mission level, the more dangerous the rats get. note: drone rats drop no ores. other rats bring little or no bounties with them. you should only see bounties in pve missions.these limits will encourage miners to take more risks entering low-sec space for more precious ores while crippling the efforts of the bots."
"if pvpers rat or mine... why not???i wrote that this would apply on civilian activities, not pvp things...or... you can implement that verification is asked at next undocking after civilian activities... like verification for undocking... if you are worried about problems with hostile situations that my happend when you rat or mine and inspection comes...and your last part is lol...so... if we pay taxes to our country we can do everything???where did you find that country... i would love to steal things there without consequences and come back in real world with a lot of money... oh... right... that is what rmters are doing... and to others, sorry if you dont like my suggestion...it seems that any suggestion that could make living harder for botters will came across many ppl that will make fun about it (and about any other suggestion on that subject)... it only shows how many macro users is in this game...if you dont support some suggestion, you can just say that (and why), and dont make fun of ppl who propose it...just say anything that would help and dont just be against everything or quote \"nothing can be done\"...by this last paragraph i am talking about all proposals that would help in fighting botting and rmt problem and not just mine..."
"no"
"not supported as i used to mine in high sec adn wouldnt want to deal with it. i used to mines ice for my towers when ever i had free time doing homework adn stuff and would simply hit mine and come back 30min to an hour later warp to station rinse repeat. i love the fact that this grinder stuff can be done afk and having a system that makes you here while hit f1 f2 adn f3 and then have to wait almost 15mins before doing anythign else is stupid."
"in game lineage2, at first with bots struggled in such a way:from monsters were beaten out not only gold, resources and clothes, but also invisible in the client anchors which at a picking up added at once 999% of an inventory overload, then on the server worked alarm, and the character couldn't move.the client didn't know such anchor-items and the player simply couldn't lift such subject. and the bot for some reason picked it up with all other items. but after bot have changed on ingame-version, it has ceased to work. what admins did in further, i don't know. also i remember that adjustments of responses in the bot options had a very-very huge set.perhaps, to make inspection completely invisible to client machines, to make its arrival quick and in random time, lock directly of invisibility and putting disruptor on miner?what normally does a bot in case on it when it is caught on disruptor? logged off momentaly? <- there is a way, i think.but even after that, i am afraid that a bot will simply rewrite by its programmers and instead of an old method it is necessary to invent the new.and about constant input of the code from a picture, i am not assured in conveniently and regularities of such method.it will seems to me it to irritate only all real players and to hinder comfortably to play.try to imagine a sample:0.0 sec, miner is mining arkonor, round it fly npc, and in the local, there was just formed a neutral pilot.during this moment the inspector flies and brakes you attempt to warpout on safespot by this window. losing necessary seconds, we die. and making a more and more sounds of very strong language."
"wow. l2grammar.ot - adding even more bureaucracy is not the answer to bots, it'll just cause more pain for players. and bots do help the economy, they keep the plex prices down and likewise makes sure there is a large supply of cheap minerals. imagine what would happen without them, the mineral prices would climb and for a long time people would be trying to adjust, which means even more pain for the players."
"back in june 2010 ccp met with our player representatives and acknowledged that many things would need to be worked on in the spaceship game but because of incarna they would have to wait 18 months. i appreciate the honesty even though i was not thrilled with that answer. but i would ask that after incarna is finished that ccp put it down and work on the spaceship part of the game. i have good reason to suspect that the spaceship game will continue to be ignored even after incarna. when incarna comes out it will draw new crowds to the game. and those new crowds will be here in assembly hall asking ccp to dedicate *more* time to walking in stations. they will want more tattoos and piercings and bigger wardrobes and more hair styles, more make up, pets, sports cars etc. just look at everything barbie has and it will be requested. (even some things she doesnt have like jiggly jugs have been requested) these folks dont exist in large numbers in game now because eve doesnt offer the dress up game they are after. but incarna will draw them in.even now before incarna is even out we have people who want to make their character 6 inches taller/shorter or have jiggly jugs. we also have proposals for a whole combat system in incarna. the clamor for these sorts of proposals will only grow once incarna is out and that crowd starts filling the forums. the items brought up by csm 5 in june will continue to languish. accordingly as a player, who waited patiently, i would propose that after incarna is out ccp please resist the temptation to put off spaceships even longer to iterate on incarna until the items in the june summit that, to the current players chagrin, were tabled for 18 months are actually done. and before anyone says we cant make proposals about when ccp works on what etc. let me say your wrong. i just did. and i would like ccp to work on the space ship game that everyone acknowledges deserves time. i know that to get incarna out this has been delayed. but i would hope they wont continue to push those issues aside after its out. if you agree with me please support this proposal. it doesnt take a genius to see the problems outlined in june, are likely to be pushed aside even longer than 18 months. not only will the space barbie crowd grow very large after incarna, but many who like to play the spaceship side of the game will see they are irrelevant and leave. hence i am putting this proposal up now. thanks for reading."
"supported. +1with the advent of pi, i already got too much of a 'sims' feel (i was this close to seeing myself building a theme park on a planet).new character editor is fine. maybe have 3d corp meetings in station along with it? also fine. but yes, let's keep it spaceship oriented."
"personally, i'm getting pretty sick and tired of the whining. the walking portion is going to be as much a part of the game as the spaceship portion. \"definitive sci-fi simulator\" can only work if they cover all areas, not just one or the other. not supported."
"i don't mind if they work on incarna after it comes out, but i would prefer that they give it equal time to any other aspect of the game that needs work (fw, pi, low-sec, corp roles, ad infinitum). incarna will be a part of the game, but ccp should keep in mind that it's just that, a small part of a greater whole.as for the incarna debacle that seems to be forming, i'm gonna remain patient and see what they do with it. i'd like them to include some things like corp stores and all, but for now, i take a wait and see attitude towards the new mechanics."
"in my head, very much for a long time, the idea turns.it consists here in what: it would be good, to make possible change of coloring of the ships,for entering of a variety and more personality in monotonous weight of the ships.very many of us played need for speed and very much it was pleasant to us that same porshecan look very much differently, depending on we will choose what toning of glasses,what color we will paint the car, what drawing we will put on a cowl and the sides,what color of neon illumination we will choose, a bumper, a cowl, disks on wheels.and having picked up under the image all it, we could tell precisely that here it is the serious car,here it is the car of terminator, here it is the car of the loony, this car of the silly blonde women,and that car of the idiot.the idea consists that after a while, in game bothers same abaddon, same hurricane,same sacrilage or badger. we them saw in such colors one million times.yes, at us is navy and faction the ships, but it is insignificant a little.in game there is a modest possibility to create a corporation and alliance emblem,on the basis of three layers from different drawings, with possibility to choose color of everyone.similar picture we also saw in game need for speed when painted the car.besides, soon there is a new editor of the character who allows us to choose appearance under itself as we want.to choose a hair color, color of eyes, the size of ears, a stomach, skin color and meny more things.why, in the future not to make possibility to choose appearance of the ship under itself.i don't mention idea of modifying of model of the ship since it is the very difficult realized project,but to make possible a choice skin for ship model, sees for me not by such difficult.also i understand that on servers and so there is a huge loading, and also there are lags in fights more, than 500 players.there are some ideas as it could be realized.technically:a. (more interesting variant)1. the set of skins should be stored on the separate server, in separate storehouse.2. skin it is a file of a picture or some files which can be prepared in any graphic editor.3. skin it is possible to load on the server by means of the special web-form on a site eveonline.com, having logged in to user account.4. skin it is loaded by each client from the server directly during game, just as portraits of characters, but, probably, not at once and after the lapse of some time or at a next login.5. there should be a possibility to sitch off or limit loading and displaying alternative skins for economy of the traffic and video adapter resources.6. for reduction of overloading server, it is necessary to enter the maximum quantity loaded skins at an o'clock or a day from each account.+ the prevention of it of the player.7. for reduction of overloading server, it is necessary to enter a delay on processing new loaded skins (his transfer to use) for one or some number of days.+ the prevention of it of the player.8. to enter the maximum quantity of the available player skins. for example: max 30 skins pre account.9. to make possibility of removal added earlier skins.10. to make restrictions in game, on installation skin to the ship.here that the player should satisfy certain conditions means:to execute mission, to spend certain quantity isk or loyality point, to earn defined standing to the fraction, it is obligatory to be the corporator, to buy certain intems, to reach a certain place, to receive the blueprint or still something.11. applied skin, each player at whom display alternative skins in options is included can see."
"b. (more simple variant)1. to separate from a base texture of the ship any distinctive signs, such as sign caldari state, so that there were only windows, nozzles, aerials, a relief of a surface, glass, solar batteries, hatches, bulbs etc should remain.2. to add possibility to impose on each ship, over the base texture, three translucent textures-layers to which could choose color from not the big ready set and to choose color of the most base texture.the first layer - the lowermost, third layer - the uppermost. the top layers close themselves bottom.3. in a database to make a separate field-identifier of the chosen coloring which would become attached to the assembled ship. for example, number containing quantity of the layers, the textures chosen for them, their position and the size, and also their color.4. need to design, create and add on the server a set of translucent textures in a kind, strips, zigzags, water waves, waves of fire, lightnings, camouflage stains, stains from a dirt and explosions, geometrical a fig, symbols, emblems (for this purpose it is possible to connect as well players to the job ) etc.5. there should be a possibility to switch off displaying of an alternative skins of the ships, for economy of resources of a videocard.6. to make restrictions in game, on installation skin to the ship.here that the player should satisfy certain conditions means:to execute mission, to spend certain quantity isk or loyality point, to earn defined standing to the fraction, it is obligatory to be the corporator, to buy certain intems, to reach a certain place, to receive the blueprint or still something.usability:the given variant can be anchored to walks on stations in future incarna update.example: the player quits a capsule and walks on station. in any bar or a technical bay, it finds character scotty (which all of us sometimes would like to kill ).in talk with scotty, the player recieve the information that it needs to make, that scotty has colored its ship, if he on itself or if it the corporator of players. for example, to bring for scotty rum, whisky or and cigarets or benefit against it in chess.after completing of request scotty, that leads out the player in coloring hangar where to the player the separate editor similar on the new character creation editor opens, but without possibility to vary the form and the size of details of the ship model (though it would be cool).in the given editor:1. the screen most part is occupied with the ship and it can be rotated how it will want by left mouse button and to change scale by using mouse wheel.2. in the right part of the screen, there are 3 units of the menu for three possible layers and 1 unit with a simple choice of color of a basic texture.3. in each of three units of the menu the menu of translucent textures broken into categories (bands, lines, stars, lightnings, waves, emblems, symbols, corporation symbol, the user textures etc.) what contains in game.4. at cursor move over a texture, the separate menu is more to the left displayed, there should be a window of a choice of color to this texture and, probably, a half-transparency level.5. at a texture choice, and cursor moving over the ship, the texture starts to move behind the cursor for a choice of its position.6. at mouse right click, the texture is fixed on the selected point of model, and texture scaling turnes on.7. if the cursor moves upwards or downwards the texture changes the width if the cursor moves to the left or to the right the texture changes the height.if it becomes with clamped shift key the texture is scaled with saving of proportions.8. on right mouse button pushing, the height and width are applied, and turn of a texture concerning a point of its fixing turnes on.9. after a choice of an angle of rotation of a texture, on right mouse button pushing - the layer is applied."
"too most with remaining layers.10. there is a function of switch-off and switching-on of display/usage of each of layers, buttons \"to move a layer upwards\", \"to move a layer downwards\", and also the button \"to change a layer\", for editing colors, the size or texture position.11. after applying of the necessary coloring and layers by the button \"apply\", the editor is closed and we have skin on the ship.corporate skins:corporate skin can comprise a corporation or alliance emblem a separate fourth layer and to form by the director or the player with a certain role.corporate skin it can be applied by the owner of corporation forcedly, to all corporators or for a certain role of players.in section of output of medals, it is possible to apply to the ships of separate players of an emblem of a medal, shevrons or an stars.alternative variant of obtaining skin - creation skin through the editor, by a method writed above, but exceptional the production character.the production character, having brought the blueprint or a blueprint copy to scotty, beforehand having fulfilled its requests, gets access to the skin editor and skin is anchored to the specific blueprint.after that, the ship constructed under this blueprint, will have selected skin.it will import additional interest to manufacturing.*under translucent textures i meant the such: simple png-24 picture but without a black border.all white color pixels may transform to any chousen colors, all semi-transperent pixels transform to selected color with the same transparency, all fully transperent pixels be a full transperent pixels."
"yes, this is the primary problem.with this game mechanics easy to survive for the neutral logis.they just repping each others but when are they in danger just need push to docking or jumping button.and they just docking out again and starting the repping each others. maybe you can kill the aggroed pilots when the neut logi docked up, but when not just 1 neut logi on field, your chance to kill something, will move to zero.this is a horrible mechanics."
"never played freelance may have to check it out."
"well.. we cannot afford coled space with current collision mecanics. not when misslies and gunfire go through moons and stations, and ships get stuck inside an asteroid that is 15 kilometers away. if ccp improves the entire collision mecanics, sure."
"very supported.a common sensical, easy to implement, low resource solution to a common bug/scam? sign me up.also, lol at the scammers claiming this is \"market pvp\"charon carbon must be contract pvp then"
"it would be trivial to create ******ed amount of isks out of thin air with your change. what about thinking before posting. limiting biomassing of characters does nothing when you can just create another account."
"the scam issue can be fixed in an easier way by removing the \"minimum amount\" option. is it used for anything but scamming?"
"sure it is, if im order 10,000 of something, with a buy order across the entire region, and i dont want to be assed to go out of my way to pick up 10 units at each and every station."
"supported, for what it's worth. but ccp do love their isk sinks."
"i never specified that this was the only change to be made. i was thinking of combining this with the other idea listed here of queries on specific market orders to check for sufficient wallets.these two combined means that any scammer could easily have a large chunk of his isk put into limbo if he runs this scam, while the market order would disappear. all together, this would be an effective isk sink, while still affecting rmts and others."
"the easiest fix is that the you must have to put enough isk in escrow to buy the lowest quantity possible of what ever you have buy orders for. so if you are ordering 1 billion units of trit with a min order size of 400m you need to put enough isk into escrow to cover the price of 400m. this change will pretty much only affect scammers.ie if you put up a buy order for 11 of somethign rediculously over priced witha minimum of 11 units to fill the order you have to put up thefull amount in escrow."
"faction bs don't outperform them on tank actually...one could say marauders are pre-painted and damped with their increased sig radius and nerfed scan res.with the shift in mission running going to tengus, machariels, nightmares and the odd rattlesnake for solo l5s, noctis looting better than a marauder ever did imho marauders need more a complete redo than just a sensor strength boost.people not having trained the skill yet are better off investing sp in a second bs race that will not only give them a better pve ship but also open more possibilities than the marauder skill ever will.not supporting, they need a redo not a boost."
"i would have to say depends on the maurader and the faction ship. take for starters the rattler has a equl or greater tank then most mauraders. i would also have to say alot of teir two empire faction bs could probly match the tank with greater dps. add that to the fact most faction bs have higher ehp and there just gold over muraders."
"this is the best proposal i've seen to fix lo sec.very supported."
"isk/hour low sec is actually better than high just unfortunately its filled with guys who think they are 'pirates' who just gank everything they can."
"yes, and make npc ships happy at changing targets."
"the problem isn't the isk per/hr. it is the lack of relative safety that will always mean lo sec is avoided. you could eliminate all mining, missions, and resources from hi sec and people would quit rather than step into lo sec."
"this."
"i think the problem at this time is that there is an inability to fight back in lo sec while engaging in the pve content. this is not really true of 0.0 (which should be in theory, less secure!) due to the ability to hold and patrol space, distribute intel and whatnot.lo sec is not designed to have such intel, or territory control, and more to be about hit and run, free form, small gang, small operation, skirmish warfare.the proposal deals with the disconnect between those design goals and the actual content there. the missions and content are not designed for ships that could survive the lo sec environment reducing every encounter to a very predictable: be found and die. this is compounded by the current ai (or lack thereoff) which renders every mission into a gang bang on whoever has aggro, or requires vast amount of time to complete in a \"safe\" way.this is why i think this proposal is the way to go, the answer is not to make low sec safe, but survivable, and competitive. right now the problem is that to have any chance of isk/hr in lo sec you are completely helpless and flying things that will take many lucky lack of encounters to repay. and that there is no possibility of even a fight, every encounter ending predictably in the death of the misioneer.now, since this is a game played by human beings that do not particularly enjoy standing helplessly while being blown up with no possibility of retaliation instead of say, birds, cows, or hares, this land is an unhabited wasteland.change the system into one where there is a fighting chance, and see the land flourish, full of small gangs that would participate in the content, and skirmish with one another in competitive and unpredictable ways.that is the solution for a thriving low sec. and one i'd love to see."
"make all lowsec missions fw style missions, designed for sb instead of a big fat bs."
"easy fix to all missioning to balance risk vs reward. sleeper ai on all npc's. this also fixes ganking mission runners in low sec and the rediculous nearly 0 risk mission running in high sec."
"i really like this one. the rationale is sound. the real problem with low sec is really the fact that you're completely helpless no matter what you do, unless you sabotage your own income in such a way that you may as well go run in high-sec instead. making lowsec missions unique instead of carbon-copies of high-sec missions and making the ai not quite so terribly stupid is certainly a good way to go about fixing that."
"\"\"it's tougher,it's also a t3 and gallente. it's like saying - eh the tengu can perma run xl booster and get 2000 omni tank, it shouldn't have 700 dps. except it does.\"\""
"in a nutshell option 2, blaster ships simply lack the ability to nail targets in a spot, control the combat range and play out the dps advantage(as little as it is this days).speed issues can be addressed by giving blaster hulls a bit more base speed/agility and removing the penalty form resist and active armor rigs."
"most ships in the game now were designed in a time before the nano nerf and drone nerf. nano was nerfed, gallente ships suddenly had trouble getting into blaster range. drones were nerfed, gallente ships had to carry light, medium, heavy drones (pick two) to be able to function in combat.in light of the changes, the whole design of the ships should have been reworked."
"no, the counter to neuts is nos."
"err ... what? assuming you meet the specific conditions where a nos will work--and that isn't always easy when you're an active tank and the enemy is buffer tanked--it'll take 2.5 medium nos to counter each single medium energy neut.not much of a counter. you'd be far better off trying to nuke the enemy's cap first which is why everyone fits a neut. and with almost everyone fitting a neut in a gang, even the most ridiculous cap recharge setups are toast in a matter of seconds. so active tanking is off the table too, and here we are"
"actually that's most reasonable idea here. i'm surprised anubis thought of it"
"tl;dr version only: supported."
"umm there is a direct counter to these.. cap boosters... did you forget about them?"
"people on this forum don't distinguish between bad ideas and ideas they don't like... which is a rampant infection in eve. not even i always like the ideas i put forward, i just think they will improve the game."
"isn't this module already available in game?"
"that logic has already been debunked several times. come up with something new or stfu."
"where? i haven't seen it debunked. i've seen people say variations of \"but that's not what i want\" but i haven't read an explanation of why cap boosters aren't a counter to neuts. seems to work for me, that and remote cap."
"anubis xian is pretty bad at understanding game design issues. that's why i was so surprised when he suggested cap battery idea.i guess even a blind squirrel finds a nut once in a while."
"are armor repairers a counter to turrets, launchers, or drones?"
"i understand the issues, i just don't always go with the most obvious solution."
"from a problem analysis perspective, there are several counters. the most obvious one is to shoot the thing that is shooting you in the face. in fact, that would also be the primary counter to being neuted. repairing the damage done is a counter to weapons fire as well. increased resistances mitigate the damage done, and thus improve the effectiveness of your repairs.another counter is your ship's natural ability to fix damage (shield recharge). this is similar to that of the passive recharge of cap that is a counter to neuts.i am of the opinion that the number potential counters, the ease they are fit, and the additional methods to mitigate risk should be proportional to the likelihood that you will be at risk. as neuts are not often used to attack most ships (other than super caps), it really shouldn't have a wide range of methods to defend against it. in fact, going by that logic, super cap pilots should be the ones who desire counters as their only counters are currently remote cap and their passive cap recharge.something like ecm on the other hand, should probably have more ways to defend against it."
"i think the current balance in cap modules is pretty fair. there is no \"issue\".there are only minor things that could be improved, not serious problems.something like a cap battery is very underused module, it has potential to be a little nicer for pvp by offering extra protection. nos are also underused, tho not as bad as cap batteries. would be nice if ccp removed the horrible nos nerf and implemented some other limitation on nos"
"kjewla, 169,157,134,136,56,57,58,6"
"ruiz mateos, 169,157,134,136,56,57,58,6"
"starmachine, 169,157,134,136,56,57,58,6"
"okay, these things are silly.they're only 2500m/3 meaning a maxxed out prorator can carry 3, maybe 4.it takes 2 minutes to anchor.it takes a 20 man fleet the better part of an hour to remove.make the stupid things larger. 10k m/3 means a skilled blockade runner set up for the task can haul one, not four.currently it is laughably easy to spam these things all over the place with pretty much no way to slow down their deployment.make 'em larger, make it a tactical challenge to ninja them into enemy space, so that the emplacement of them has meaning, not just a rehash of the old ninja pos spam. heck, ninja'ing pos spam took time, spamming these sbus takes none at all. drop, anchor, lol."
"/signed"
"/signed"
"alternatively, make them a lot softer targets so that they can be dealt with as easily as they can be deployed.currently they're 10m shield (50% resist all, so 20m effective), 10m armor (same), and 1m structure.that's as much as a small pos and far too easy to deploy at 2500m/3 each. a small pos tower, conversely, is 5000 m/3 and requires fuel (logistics) to support and defend.if these things were softer (1m/1m/500k) the emplacing powers would have to defend them rather than just plunking them down and laughing while they go spam another system."
"it complaining about mechanics. love it.it really isn't that easy, by the way. it is funny though."
"itt: i **** off my alliance colleagues by saying silly things.tbqh the sbu hitpoints and ehp need to stay as they are. with the number of caps/supercaps that even small alliances can field, they die too fast as it is. they need to be able to take punishment for long enough that the attacking force has a realistic chance of defending them.i do somewhat agree on your point about their size, however."
"op is obvious it alt. whine more about losing your space please."
"not supportedadapt or die, but dont cry."
"proposal has been completely re-written in an attempt to be more clear and concise on the intentions of the proposed changes, and why i feel it is superior to those already proposed. i would appreciate any further response on how people feel about this proposal.***topic summary only includes a small amount of the proposed changes. please read the full proposal that is linked in the original topic."
"easy fix to bounties is be able to set up contracts with corp or allainces to kill certain people. simply put lets say person x blows you up in a high sec gank. you could make a contract with a reputable corp y that is filled when person x is killed by a member of corp y. this doesnt stop someoen from collecting thier own bounty all together but it certainly a step in the right direction"
"that doesn't do anything, since they can just kill him when he is in a shuttle or other worthless thing.any fix to bounties has to be tied to the value of the destroyed ship."
"i think bounty hunters should have to register with concord's contract enforcement division, allowing the bh to freely attack anyone with a bounty. this means you can't hide your 250 mil isk bounty behind a 5.0 sec status in hi sec space.but, to be a registered bounty hunter, you should be required to have and maintain a sec status of at least 2.5.but bounties shouldn't be tied to the pod and large bounties shouldn't be a one kill payout, but rather a ship class payout; ie 1 bn for capital, 100 mil for bs, 50 for bc, 25 for cruiser, 12.5 for frig. if you have a 30 bn isk bounty, bhs will be hunting you for years eating away at it."
"thank you for all the support"
"i stopped mining for a living long ago. around that time, when it was no longer possible to make around 10 million / hr with high sec mining.the idea is just to give a bit love to mining without super-nerfing it.when missions which have asteroids are done the asteroids should remain and be scannable relativly easy in a t1 frig. to counter effect the mass of asteroids it could be that the original belts will still exist but only in small amounts with veldspar and scordite and/or only in 0.9/1.0.the now from missions left behind belts could be made more interesting with mixed ore. based on the former mission level the belt should have a certain value not specific ore. a lvl 2 mission could leave behind some omber or pyrox. lvl3 will contain more concentrated stuff and lvl 4's could contain the high value high sec ore + a small amount of low sec ores like jaspet. as the value of the belt is defined per mission level this gives color but does not boost the value of the field.value could be adapted every once in a while with the mineral basket used on insurances. if pyrox is getting to expensive it will be reduced and replaced by omber or so.rats could be defined also by the former mission value. a lvl 4 belt in a 0.5 system could be having 3 cruiser rats maybe. the strongness would needed to be defined. i'd say a hulk should be able to tank a lvl 4 belt rat spawn single handed, but only if the player would work active against the rats (sending drones early, have at least a shield booster and even if the player acts fast or normal he would be in low shield or so). positive side effect of the rats would be that at least lvl4s would not be macro mineable anymore, cause you need to act or you loose against the rats. for belts in 0.7 with lvl 2 belts a good action against macros could be that if you dont kill the 2 frigs and the 1 cruiser within 20 minutes it escalates into a further spawn of 2 frigs and 1 cruiser. the belts could despawn latest after downtime or act similar to a can. if untouched it despawns after 2 hrs or so. this would prevent to drown mission hubs in ore. the only negative impact i can think of is, that ccp would have to need to send missioneers up to 5 jumps away to give a good traffic control.#####interested to see what you think."
"ill admit i used tech 2 low slots, well minus the plate obviously.fit i used wasomenhigh slotsfocused modal pulse laser ifocused modal pulse laser ifocused modal pulse laser ifocused modal pulse laser ifocused modal pulse laser imid slotsy-t8 overcharged hydrocarbon i microwarpdrivefaint warp disruptor ismall electrochemical capacitor booster ilow slots800mm reinforced rolled tungsten plates idamage control iiadaptive nano plating iiheat sink iiheat sink iirigswhatevercpu 296.25/312.5pwr 912/912.5edit. just realised i had reset my character to my skills, that powergrid number is with the skills i listed."
"no.also, if you guys hated this thread so much, just let it die. honestly, this thread was almost off the page and gone"
"take your own advice. the ruling i referred to covered a repeating trend by the offending corporation. warning to be issued when the activity is observed on a continuous basis and thereafter stronger sanctions. first offenses were not considered to be indicative nor were situations in which the evasion was not a part of a frequent trend.this is why i advised a cycling, of the corporation in question, through the process at least one more time to build a case."
"really. everyone. that's a broad statement and easily disproven. for instance my experience with her gives lie to your statement. also, how do you explain the number of votes she received to become a member of the csm? and not just once. it would seem there are quite a few people who disagree with your point of view.its very easy to take shots at someone when theyre not around to defend themselves. even easier when you dont care what you say or have any regard for the accuracy of what you say. it speaks more to your level of common sense than it says anything about ankh.-windjammer"
"and exactly how many of those votes were made by well-informed eve citizens? i doubt it was a large number. it's been proven plenty of times in the past, during elections, that a majority of the votes placed are made by those who are not familiar with the positions their selected candidates represent. it's all about exposure or feelings for most voters (otherwise how would palin be so popular) and not knowledge of platforms.my common sense tells me that during meetings i should not use utensils as projectiles. anybody's common sense should tell them not to do that. that's just one example, i won't list any more as there are plenty of examples on these forums of her lack of common sense."
"no, i'm saying that they have to be wearing coke-bottle thick beer-googles for eve players to have any shot at them whatsoever.except, of course, for the guys who voted for me, or will vote for me in the future, who are all total studs."
"bahahahahaha.... to paraphrase.......\"you **** up everything you touch so badly, you expect us to think you'll get this right? we're just going to use scrapheap-challenge instead.\"edit: hey what ever happened to the team-leader guy who ****ed up eve-gate?last i saw of him was fanfest before last where he was telling everyone he knew better, when they were warning him of his upcoming mistakes."
"delayed one day to make room for ccp alice's devblog on the new forums. we didn't want to .01 isk her."
"i support the notion for black ops love"
"we have had one vote yes so far..."
"*blink* that might work....."
"love this"
"supported"
"bump, and whats with the raven and tengu being by far the best pve ships?by far"
"+1 would love a buff to gal ewar"
"support buffing gallente ships and weapon systems"
"supportttt"
"\"\"because the armor resist hole was moved from thermal to explosive. then nano ships were nerfed. then drones were nerfed, then webs were nerfed, then projectiles were buffed.... basically the gallente ships and weapons systems have remained static whilst the rest of the game has evolved around them, and now they are utterly obsolete.\"\"-ogogov"
"as someone who flew about 1000 dominixes over the years, i don't really see a problem with gallente ships themselves.i only see problem with blasters - which is a known issue.also i'd argue that even now, the dominix is very competitive ship and does not need any boosting. megathron on other hand..i don't believe that gallente should take over minmatar on speed role.gallente role should be high damage at close range. that can only be achieved if ccp can get over their fear of increasing offensive power.i believe the current problems with gallente are a direct result of ccp game designer's damage-phobia. they let their personality flaws influence the game negatively."
"edit fixed =p"
"really, reeeeeeally ? lots of good ideas in here tho, i think the mass reduction is one of the best since it would let gal fit what they needed without making them slow bricks and still stop them from being top speed which i think minmitar deserve, altho i think gal should be a relatively close second in speed begin that they use the shorted ranged weapons in the game. slow speed + short range = profit ???supported, but hybrids need fix as well as gal, maybe fix one then tweak the other, i dont care which just please fix something"
"sure, why not."
"i support this theme!i understand that ccp it would be desirable to attract more players in game, but for me in this game always there were much, enough adult players and scifi genre fans, and i don't want, that game fell below a rating like 17+ (mature).i am 24, almost 25 years old healthy enough person and i like theme of erotical and sexual content in games."
"backup plan: third party mod"
"already have an unrealistic average for boob size, i don't see why we cant have this either."
"supported"
"i also couldn't figure out why it was impossible to rep yourself, to me the logic for why not wasn't there"
"good find, complete with talk about capsuleers serving as on-station assassins. pretty sure that there was also a chronicle somewhere that talked about a guy going on a suicide mission and trusting that his ability to med-clone would save him after the job was done, iirc. actually, it's that the scanner in the pod does it. and i'm pretty sure that one ccp chronicle and definite that one piece published in e-on confirms that a pod isn't required for medical-cloning. but even if that wasn't the case, who cares? again, fiction effects absolutely nothing in game. and if ccp wanted to change fiction, they'd just have to write an \"a wizard did it\" chronicle, and then everything is 'fixed'. exactly. hangars stay as they always have been, but in-station environments mirror out-of-station environments in terms of game mechanics. for the record though, i'm against any 100% safe areas outside of the pilot's hangar itself. they can function like 1.0 space, where guards will shoot anybody who unholsters a weapon (or whatever). that is an... interesting opinion to take. the fact, as pointed out, is that game mechanics are independent of fiction. there's no reason why being \"disrespectful of lore\" would be a bad thing in any case. people who like the game don't have to like the fiction. not to mention the fact that people can like the game, and still like the fiction even while understanding that the fiction does not inform the game.and, again, your claims of \"verisimilitude\" are nonsensical. remember, 10 square meters of implants in people's (very, very swolen) heads, ships assembled in worm holes that have magically appearing crews that never need to eat and are suicidally brave, etc... ccp can decide that stations are whatever they feel like. maybe weapons technology is more advanced than scanning technology, or whatever. it doensn't matter. because gameplay determines how the game work, and fiction is there as background fluff."
"this is important enough to justify the effort involved./supported"
"ccp is trusting us with breasts, but don't feel they can trust us with character height?supported, though i'd want something a little closer to the full range of human variability than a mere twelve-inch spread. first, let's go metric so we're understood internationally, and then let's set it at about 150 to 200 centimeters (just under five foot nothing to just over six foot six) that's a fairly normal range, with people at the top end looking short in the nba, and people (esp. women) at the low end being a little tall for a freak show.i realise characters of varying heights are hard to convincingly animate, and i am very glad ccp took this difficulty into account, but it would be more jarring (in my opinion) to have a sea of same-height characters than ones who swung their legs a touch fast or slow."
"great idea."
"awesome idea.. was expecting it to be in there already; when i tested it out on sisi. i was actually rather surprised to find it was not; though, i can't say i was terribly disappointed, while i was playing with all the other cool features."
"i am 6'5 irl. i demand my eve ego be not an inch shorter!"
"supported!and very good call mate!"
"i'll give this one a thumb's up. proportions would remain uniform across all heights, with a variance as short as, say, 4' to 6'6\" as with our current environment.likewise, make the 'base height' variable by specific race. taller or shorter depending on the rp background of each race."
"would be nice, just make sure has buy order range option. station/system/region etc."
"just annoying thing, even though the module is not active, you cannot toggle the overheat in preparation for when you decloak - either from gate cloak or a module."
"stealth gatecamp runner buff"
"how could you tell? overheated mwd is more likely to get me to the gate. on another note though, overheated mwd or point is more likely to get me to tackle range if i actually want to engage from the cloaked position."
"also make it so you can change ammo type, release probes"
"supported. too bad it makes too much sense to ever happen.1"
"i'd like to see some exdended profiles aswell something like battleclinic but u can choose who's able to see the info"
"openid is dead. long live oauth (and drop stupid api \"keys\")."
"garbage - it's doing rather well in fact."
"yes, fix the broke stuff before adding new stuff please!"
"+1what happened to the last batch of t3 subsystems!"
"i agree with the sentiment here, though i do want to add some detail to the proposal. it should work like this: figure out what you're going to iterate on first. figure out which developers are most qualified to work on those particular features and redirect them to work on them and only on them. if they're too important to the future task at hand, then figure out a different item to iterate on and use developers who are free to work on the old stuff.i understand that not every developer is equally qualified or familiar with old material and thus having the exact same developers doing the iterative work all the time would probably not work out too well. there are clearly some developers who are specialized for certain tasks and aspects of the game, and they should be put to work on the associated areas whenever possible. of course, i could be wrong, and maybe it would be best to have a single team doing all the iterative work... but i imagine they would have to do quite a bit of research into that aspect of the game before actually making any progress (else they might screw some things up unintentionally). whatever the case, new features should not be released and then left to languish for years upon years. features that are never used are really not features at all."
"as others have said..a wholly agree with the sentiment here. as it would be inclusive of many of the broken or underused features...like faction warfare, bounty-hunting etc."
"is not that like saying if i put 8 rail guns on a rokh then its just a rokh with rail guns......the main point of this is to give a reasion to fly a battleship over a battle cruser that is more than just a bonus or two. being able to change how the ship works with a bridge will give players who choose to fly battle ships and edge over players who choose to fly bc at the cost that should they loose they take a bigger hit in the wallet"
"like i said in the other thread, your argument is outdated - battleships are returning to popularity as alliances begin to develop fleet doctrines to fit the post-dominion battlefield. the fact that some fleets are too poor or too unimaginative to fit anything but drakes drakes and more drakes (which will get demolished by a modern balanced fleet with a core of battleships) isn't an argument for changing the bs class, its an argument for leaders to engage their brains and think about how to actually put their pilots into useful hulls."
"actually, a good way to revitalize battleships is to enable them to swap bridge control systems. this does not change the slot configuration of the hull in question.so, say, you swap the bridge from an apoc to, say, a typhoon. thus the typhoon gains all of the bonuses of the apoc, replacing the typhoon's native bonuses, but it's hull configuration is still that of a typhoon."
"no!at this point, computers can read those things better than real people."
"so what now all macro's are in mission hubs with a crap load of mission givers and just mine missions?i'm a pro mission miner myself. it's mainly a good way to jetcan mine. ya you get fliped from time to time. but it's not like it is in belts.secondly there are alot level 1-2 missions with massive belts in them.last but not least i am always a cat. i cant help myself i have to play with things and learn stuff so i have played with alot of differnt macro mining programs just free trial stuff. some of them i realy dont think would be to heavly affected by scaning or capta. just saying.and eve would not be the first game to get me to quite do to the use of capta. i cant stand the stuff. it's to much of a pain in my own ass. i dont think there is a single game todate that i would be willing to put up with capta inorder to play it."
"this proposal has several problems, but the biggest is that it will create a floor for the mineral value. if the agent ask for 1 million unit of veldspater and he pay 5.000.000 isk the floor for veldspater become 5 isk/unit, if he pay 1.000.000 isk the floor become 1 isk/unit. similarly it give a floor for the return of x time units of mining. if you can complete the mission in 10 minutes and get 1.000.000, 1 hour of mining should make at least 6 millions and so on."
"all ccp needs to do is employ a thread sniffer in the client, and maintain a rolling update of current bots in use (yes, meaning ccp will actually have to purchase them to prize out the base code and/or heuristic behavior).when such a thread is detected, or a particular heuristic algorithm, it simply shuts down the client(s) active on that computer, no explanation provided, and sends a report to ccp concerning what macro was detected. this can be provided to the player during the petition process.after x number of shut-downs the accounts are temporarily banned. if repeated shut-downs and bans continue the accounts are permanently banned."
"as long as the bloody bots are smarter and faster then real players (especially fat lazy ratters who are against removal of local and want to see cloakers and want to be safe on his own no matter what the other guys opinion is) any in-game solution will just **** off the legit players, and bots will find a way around them.in this case, it'll take about a day for the bot programmers to reprogram the bot to use the scanner to find the grav sites."
"that's assuming that the captcha letters are not confusing enough and the person reading it is illiterate. i have seen plenty of captcha texts that can confuse the living daylights out of me. coming from me, this is saying something as i use to work at a pharmacy having to read the chicken-scratch handwritting that doctors leave on the prescriptions. imagine a computer having to deal with \"a\" that looks like \"d\" or a \"e\" that looks like a \"b\" or a \"7\" that looks like a \"1\" and vice versa. on top of that, the texts are all smooshed together like playdough with random lines and alternating colors and tones and/or blobs. i have even seen texts that are yellow in a white background.of course, the major downside to this level of security is that you'll have plenty of issues understanding the text if you're color blind, dislexic or the player is too illiterate.in refer to the other player that mentioned about a price floor for the mineral market, i guess you made your point. but how do you propose fixing the issue of the bots then? i know ganking them is a good solution, but only if people keep hosting hulkageddon more constantly. and if some of the players are correct, then the loss of a hulk is nothing to these bot owners if they always have billions of isk at their disposal. of course, we could go out on an all out ganking of all hulks for an entire year and see what happens. doesn't hurt to try, except under pain of concord. xd"
"i was thinking that for the size these ships are supposed to be, there are alot of space on it where guns and point defense could be placed, it's not like they're gliders and need o be as aerodynamic as possible.so my plan goes like this, and some extra missle/turret animations when combat begins, you don't have to add extra launchers or turret models, just follow the same excuse that they have for why missles come out of aa portal in the middle of your ship instead of the launchers. make the mini missles turrets fire alongside the \"real\" guns but miss and/or get intercepted by the enemy's ghost point defense. so they really don't do anything except look cool. also make it togglable, so people can turn it off during fleet fights and such.normally now it's just all the guns firing in perfect synchronization, invisible drones that can only be seen with overview on and missles that fuse into one. everything is perfectly timed, and there really isn't a chaotic feel when your fighting someone. this is just a way to make it look more chaotic."
"+1 for point defense lasers and battlestar galactica-style flak on capital ships (non-functional of course)."
"supporting my own idea"
"nixxed: graphics load is already pretty extreme, most would simply turn it off."
"i support idea.graphics load is not so pretty extreme. it will be simple one more really good looking thing to which for a long time nobody pays attention, the disconnected with the help of checkbox \"disable effects\" in the main (esc) menu for better perfomance."
"my idea is basically applying what ccp did to fighter bombers. make them ghosts just for the effect, but don't have them actually do anything. but apply the for some more effects for ships"
"if you don't group your weapons, you get individual turrets and missiles firing rather than groups. perhaps that will provide some of the aesthetics your looking for."
"eve has needed this for years. i don't believe for a second that a ship as big as manhattan only has 14 or 16 guns."
"no.it shows how dumb the idea is."
"this is great idea.all people against it are obviously bot users themselves!"
"as long as the bloody bots are smarter and faster then real players (especially fat lazy ratters who are against removal of local and want to see cloakers and want to be safe on his own no matter what the other guys opinion is) any in-game solution will just **** off the legit players, and bots will find a way around them."
"if bots do \"help the economy\" why are they forbidden anyway? low plex prices, cheap minerals? so lets give each player all level v skills, all items and unlimited isk, eve will be a fantastic game eh?obvious botter is obvious..."
"you do understand that there is really no \"game\" to walking in stations. i agree it adds to immersion but thats about it. they will basically slap fangs on these characters and call them vampires for wod. if you want gameplay with these characters play wod. i have no complaints about that. that is good. that is smart, and i want ccp to do well. i am not going to complain that a company is making good use of resources. second i am not whining. i am just asking that after incarna is out, that they move back to the gameplay in eve. we still have almost a year to go before that happens and i will wait patiently. but im just looking for *some* point in time where they will start to work on what current players would like in eve. consider this. a substantial number of people who have played this game for over 1.5 years play it because of small scale pvp. did you know ccp still does not have a game mechanism that reliably delivers small scale pvp? fw plexing came very close. fw plexing was a real solid attempt to make a small scale pvp mechanism. it works better than just about anything out there but still it clearly needs fixing. players have been clamoring for a fix to this for years. wormholes was another almost there attempt but not as good as fw with respect to small scale pvp. (wormholes were obviously much more than just an attempt to create opportunities for small scale pvp) low sec in general is a good place for small scale pvp and people have been clamoring for ccp to do something with this. but instead of giving us a fix for fw or anything that will give us more small scale pvp, what do they do? they send tons beefed up npcs into random systems???? look i hope incursions are great and lots of people get enjoyment from shooting those rats and grabbing those bpcs. its just that this is not something players asked for. tons of players who have stuck with this game for a long time say they love it for the small scale pvp. thread after thread asks ccp to facilitate this in different ways. after about 2 years of requests ccp says it will take 18 months before they look at it. understandably there was much wailing and gnashing of teeth from the players. but now i am just saying ok uncle. you wont listen to our requests for 18 months but can we at least have it be a priority then? or is ccp going to forever ignore the gem in this game that keeps people playing for years?"
"its hard to say any of the view listed are wrong in anyway, however it is true that ccp is working a complete scifi simulation experience where you can do whatever it is you imagine. to achieve that goal all aspects of the game need to be represented and be developed. however i also agree that the current draw of the game, what makes eve, eve need to be preserved and receive its fair share of attention and that the spaceship part of the game should never but pushed all the way to the back burner.i personally love the idea of all that we could do in stations. everything mentioned that players would like to see in walking in stations. however i feel that is should never be a total priority. for example, t3 is dying for more advancement in modules and or new ships like the frigates that were once rumored to be coming, and as mentioned faction warfare which i here no end of disjointing remarks from those who participate in it."
"supportedand francly, if walk on stations and gank in stations etc is the next step of the game, i see no reason for me to continue to play the game. i play it for space ships nothing else.added: what i can't accept is that i play eve for space ships and for some reason when docked i'll have no other choice than play roguecraft style in station of heroes in aions system."
"primitive variant of using skins - adding feature to fitting or maybe repair service on stations, function \"change painting of the ship\".different, completely ready textures of the different ships, it is possible to find at various stations of empire (hisecs) and piracy stations in lp-shop'ah or it is simple in a market, as separate item, named something like \"cynabal red-kickass repaint script\" for using it in repair-service.the volume of this subject aspires to zero like in blueprint or script for tracking computer.for its application, it should be in a station hangar and should be selected from a window of a repair-service in a separate field or should be interposed into separate fitting slot.add:if the skin is used only by production players at construction under blueprints we get rid of one more problem.logically that caldari state, gallente federation and other races have an own military uniform and is let out by the ships painted on own military standards.the method of building of the ship with applied to the drawing a skin, can urge on the big purchase of the ships by players at players.the industrial player, can tell that its ship is better, because it colors it in special matte black both yellow color and its ship looks as a bee.there is nobody to make comments?"
"everything has been said in the other 50 posts regarding this topic.don't worry, ccp is one step ahead already!thank god the forums give me something to do when i'm bored at work!nt'"
"omg! i was late with idea...thanx for open my eyes. screenshot is awesome!"
"...does someone want to tell this person? i don't have the heart to."
"hahahahahaha"
"i do demand some fluff dices to hang in front of my console. in fact, it can go wherever i place my donuts when i change ships."
"ccp have had the infrastructure to do this for a long time.in fact, if you take a look at any of the detailed db entries in, say, evehq for instance you will see that there is an entry to pick the ship's color.they don't want to do it vov"
"why they don't want to do it?this is a brilliance feature i think. p.s.the inscription in the bottom of the screenshot: \"plex credits cost\" is frightens mep.p.s.even if it will be possible for plex credits, it would be already very good for me."
"taken from the features and ideas forum:"
"like the idea, indeed the rigged/equiped ships transport is some niche. +1 - however the restrictions for the size ships should be limitated, bigest size possible=bsi see a few drawbacks in the idea, like high sec gank. oc when you see one of those ships you are pretty sure that you are getting home with some candies."
"people are already using the orca to replace suicide gank ships, and something like this would be their wet dream. the orca is sufficient, as bses have enough cargohold to hold a repackaged shuttle in their cargohold. not supported."
"1.0"
"i supported it in the other thread and i'm supporting it now. letting it be easily gankable would be good for risk/reward:so you want to move a fleet of bss to this location eh?either take a million trips or get a million people or use a couple of these.supported"
"ok, but i'm not sure you read the post. no one is talking about using bses to move shuttles...??"
"ok, but i think you have to actually check the box that says \"support the idea\" to give it a thumbs up..."
"my proposal is to change physics mechanics to discourage blobbing.essentially it means that the more ships are on grid, the more space the physics engine will require between those ships.the actual range will depend on the type of ship - small frigates will be able to zip through larger battleship gangs without problem, but a battleship will have a significant effect, with possible 'bowling' repercussions.this should have a few significant changes:big roaming (battlecruiser-battleship) gangs will find that if they all warp to a gate at the same time, some will not end up inside of jump range. as smaller gangs do not have this problem, the obvious solution is to warp with less persons at the same time, creating a train - vulnerable to being side-stabbed.when setting up a big gatecamp or pos-busting gang, more thought needs to be put into which kind of ships should be positioned where. instead of the current 'ball' you'd need to put closer ranged ships closest, and further range ships furthest, or some of your big blob can't fire. this will add tactics, and should leave openings for specific counters on weaker points.warping:the current warp mechanics needs to be altered slightly to accomodate for the physics change. instead of warping first, then 'bowling' out, it should pre-calculate a free spot. this makes it possible for big gangs to end up in a big sphere around the target, while a small gang will be at 0km. bookmarks or other tricks should not change this.this will not stop blobbing, and i don't think anything will. however, it could give an extra layer to blobbing with more vulnerabilities for smaller groups to exploit."
"rather than spreading things out... introduce ways to attack the blob as a whole.more, and different, bombs. tracking bombs, sticky bombs, bs sized bombs (for black ops), ect.tracking bombs are identical to current bomber variants, they merely adjust their flight (slightly) in flight toward its target. not enough to catch an abing frigate, but increases the chance to keep it in the effect zone.sticky bombs are just that... they adhere to the target and can either be detonated at will, or on a timer. same damage as normal bombs, perhaps slightly less, with reduced radius.black ops bombs would be the equivalent of, say, 4 normal bombs (or more), and have a far larger aoe (reducing effect when used against a lone target). 50km range with full skills. this makes it possible for lone targets to get out due to high probability of tackler death but will be highly effective versus blobs. making them pursue ships through warp would be ace. they also need to re-introduce the titan aoe dd, but make it very, very prohibitive to use compared to the one-target dd. a titan dding an entire fleet would have a very high probability of not being able to escape in a timely manner. anything to combat the drake mob is a good thing."
"i love the blackops sb idea!"
"terrible, both postersideas so bad i don't even need to bother arguing"
"yea, you all know why.okay at a friends request, i add more: to punish those with escrow scams, and to punish those for rmt. no more can the characters just disappear (especially for escrow tricks).okay as it stands, if you train an alt up to margin trading 5 you can enter a buy order and not actually have to place the full buy order isk amount into escrow, at lvl 5 you only need to put 75% up. you can therefore create a huge buy order for an item(s) and only pay 75%, of course you will have a negative balance, but you can always just biomass the character and the balance is gone. when you get caught with rmt, ccp will take the isk away, of course if you have already spent all of it or some of it, you may end up with a negative balance.basically, by not allowing players to biomass characters with negative isk balances, you remove a weird scam caused by fail mechanics, and you also punish rmt."
"perhaps you could elaborate a little more...?"
"this will work better with other ideas currently floating around the ah. as it stands, there is only one way to go into negatives - to have a dev remove isk from your wallet due to violation of the eula.however, in such respect, i agree. supported."
"currently eve devs will penalise a character for breaking rules by slaping them with a negative isk balance, this way they cant do much till its paid off. so most of the time the character is simple bioed ( ie destroyed) and another one instantly takes its place."
"i don't get it... what's preventing the rmter or whatever to just abandon that account and start another?"
"they may have other characters on the account."
"i added more to the original post"
"its simple.let the order be fullfilled and the buyer go into negative isk. he cant set up other orders when in negativ isk.i dont see the margin trading as a bug but as a game design flaw as negativ isk standing is not integrated."
"gathering moon goo should be pain in the ass, not effortless activity you do to earn isk.supported this or anything that makes moon goo pos owners cry."
"iv seen, and talk to other people who had a prolbom with a grahis glich that make yellow ship wreck and loot appear white or blue, this happen to me and i misstake concord warning for one of the annoying messages or shut down messages and because i didn't think i would have that problem with a blue or white the concord kill me, so i would like to make a suggestion, why not make the concord warning and other warning like low sce, with a red background with white letters, or a thick red border so that new player like myself don't get them confuse"
"... lrn 2 english.also, wrong forum.you do not get concorded for looting wrecks. yellow wrecks belong to someone else. if you take stuff out of them then you will be flagged as \"hostile\" to whomever does \"own\" it and can be attacked by that person (and their corp) for up to 15 minutes.white wrecks are yours.blue wrecks are free for all.also, read the goddamn warnings before you do anything. there is a reason they are there."
"shahfluffers's a bit harsh but accurate about the concord stuff. they won't shoot you for taking wreck materials; that's left up to the owner of the wreck.i heard from a fairly new person today something that seems a tad fishy about this style of \"glitch\".he said someone was near a \"blue\" (released) wreck. he figured they were looting it but a few minutes later and the ship plus wreck were still there so he flew over and looted it. the wreck still showed blue and that it had something in it so he checked again and there was an item so he looted that. he was flagged criminal and the other guy opened fire on him and popped his ship.now i haven't had time to verify this nor do i have enough details to know if it's a bug, newbie fubar or what but a couple others mentioned they'd bumped into issues of this nature and got shot at by other players in such a fashion. again, i don't know if they got a theft warning, etc... and it was from new players in \"baby\" systems.so what i'm suspecting is there may be an exploit glitch that allows someone to effectively \"can flip\" a blue flagged wreck so it stays looking blue but is actually their property.if this is the case with your situation, that would explain getting blown up but probably by another player - not by concord."
"this should be petitioned if it is so."
"fw complex are an awesome mechanic for this type of thing.unfortunately the system is broken and stops working within 3 hours after downtime.fix fw plex spawning."
"i support this measure, but it should apply to all missions which low-sec agents give out. a person in high-sec isn't likely to go to low-sec to run a mission, and the person in low-sec can use their pvp fitted ship to go to high-sec for the mission.this won't affect a majority of mission runners, but it'll at least allow the option of missions in low-sec. i don't think the sleeper ai should automatically retarget anything as quickly (to allow droneboats to still have an impact), but the core idea is solid.supported."
"you can quite easily run missions in low sec, the problem is people expect to be able to run them how they do in high sec. so when that pirate comes into local, scans them down, warps to there mission. they are there sitting at 0 on the warp in, not aligned out.to run missions in low sec is just like ratting in non-sov 0.0, or 0.0 owned by other people. watch local (its essentially free intel)stay aligned (not always possible, mining for example but mining in low sec is stupid for other reasons than pirates)use your d-scan (set it to 447,000,000km thats roughly 3au distance, use this to keep an eye out for probes)i have run (on an alt) missions and plexes in low sec for a while now, its not difficult to stay safe."
"i think thats exactly what this proposal is about and why i don't go to low sec to run missions: if the pirate warps in and you arent warping out, you are dead in a expensive mission setup.very supported, this would get me in low sec, i don't want the only possibility to be running or dying in a very expensive ship, i want to fight back and the content to be designed so i can."
"supported!"
"my question is: wy?i have my personal opinion on this matter, but i would like to know what makes you say this.what, who, wy people come to high sec in npc corporations and would choose to stop the game rather than join low/null sec corps."
"because the majority of people are very weak and abhor violence - even in video games. they probably can't imagine themselves killing other people in space ship. all they think about is that their space ship will be killed and it gives them great fear. so they'd rather quit and join wow or hello kitty online where nobody can touch their precious"
"because hi sec exists in the first place. if eve had stayed true to itself, hi sec as we know it today would not have existed at all. and once you open that box, closing it is impossible without massive repercussions."
"look no further than fw missions. they are actually the perfect low sec mission model. make special \"low sec lp\" that you get when doing missions in low sec. these low sec lp would allow you to buy items you can't buy with the regular lp."
"it seems like the thing to do would be to assign a price to the security provided by concord. i mean, they create a huge incentive to stay in hi-sec, because you can still make a profit in a nearly perfectly safe environment. in the real world, that costs money."
"fw missions are not anwswer. not everyone cares about fw. also not every region has fw at all.doing missions requires way too much effort. base mechanics is same than in hi sec but 1000x more dangerous and exhausting. stay aligned. watch for probes. look local. all that crap. especially for casual player it's pain. even someone who knows the stuff doesn't usually bother. cos it's just easier and more interesting to do something else like rat in 0.0 where you can make similar amount of money or more and actually defend yourself.i think it is just comfortable to forget whole low sec and fix fleet fight lag or jita lag instead of making low sec more interesting. when people ramble about supercap hotdrops they hardly give any thought on how it works in low sec. etc. at least in 0.0 there is cyno jammers.anyhow supporting the idea. cos it sounds cool."
"unlike sov null, no one actually lives in lowsec those days, so, less whining. pretty straight forward.make all lowsec missions fw style missions, and people will do them. it has nothing to do with reward amount, it's safety. if you fail missions due to getting caught in lowsec, pretty soon you'll lose enough agent standing to not be able to keep going even if you want to, and be forced to move to highsec. no amount of reward buff will change this, only increased safety."
"i have to agree that low sec agents have to be much more tolerant of failure. and the missions themselves should be different, like fw missions or some new design.would be nice if npc had sleeper ai. at least when some pirates warp in to kill a mission runner, the npcs in the mission would switch aggro and attack pirate ships. that would even things out"
"confirming shader model 3.0 is gonna be a must after january 18"
"bump."
"ok so the proteus is a fairly sub par drone ship when it comes to other gal ships. what i propose is to change the 7.5% hp bonus on the engineering - augmented capacitor reservoir to +1 drone per level.b4 you rage check this outwith only 100m3 max drones with both drone subs it wouldnt be able to spit out lots of heavies, however it could toss out 10x meds/lights. 10x meds is comparable dps than 5x heavies ( all lvl 5 skills with 10% ship drone damage damage mod is 475 for ogre ii and 476 10x hammerhead iis ) however with medium drones you would get your drones to target faster, but the drones have less hp individually than the heavies.it could possibly get a -1 turret modifier on one of the subs to stop a ridiculous high end dps set with drones + blasters but tbh a t3 should allow ppl to put up a drone focused ships at expense of turrets to avoid ships nerfed like the myrm had, where the turrets which were not often used for dps could be taken into account with the drones to have high end dps that was too much with drones factored in so they nerf the drones instead of turrets, ruining the ship.with the +1 drones on the 25m3 drone bandwidth sub the proteus would only be able to spit out more than 5 drones if it had both of the drone subsystems fit, making it a drone focused ship and different than any other drone ship.also b4 anyone complains about ccp already taking drone control numbers down i would point out that only the dual drone subsystem prot would allow more than 5 drones out, and other ships like carriers/guardian vexors can control more than 5 drones so its possible, ccp didnt nerf fighters to 5 fighters with more dps and there are more carriers in game than there would be dual drone subsystem proteuses so i dont think the extra drone lag would be a server killeri just think that it would be cool to give the drone race(gal) a nice option with the t3 to make a unique drone ship if they chose to fit in specifically for drones, and i think requiring both of the drone subs to be fitted to take advantage of the extra drones puts enough extra stipulation on that its a fair trade, especially if one of the drone subs gets -1 turret to stop huge top end damagealso itt b4 dram pilots qq about 10x war iis with speed bonusedit: no need to take off a extra turret, with the drone subs a prot only has 3x guns, this gives the prot the same dps as an ishtar without having one less turret"
"would be nicewould be nicer to remove even more turrets for more drone damage, at least while hybrids are such fail"
"never going to happen because that would mean the proteus would be an ishtar on steroids.(dislaimer: i want a strategic drone boat)"
"very poor proposal... very poorly written idea.not supporting.however...the proteus is supposed to be an uber tech 3 gallente strat cruiser.what the hell is the point if you can't selectively choose the best aspects of your race if you can't be a tech 3 drone boat of the \"omgwtfbbq\" kind to a point?"
"exactly, which is why everyone was disappointed with it and flies lokis and tengus instead."
"but the tengu is cerberus on steroids, so that's no excusei happen to agree that proteus should be a better drone boat than ishtar, at least cause of the price difference.so something should be done to improve it."
"if the proteus is one of the rarest ships abble to get in range to apply the ridiculous dps of blasters it's because of it's ability to pull big amounts of hp and speed.take that off and there is no point on using it, aka fail rails/blasters in that ship. ok it has +5drones at the end, he's just a better version of the ishtar the guardian vexor, but i don't realy see the proteus has the t3 version of the dominix. tbh and blasters are what for wallente pilots?mabe i'm wrong but imo is a bad idea to change the 7.5% hp to +1 drone."
"t3 can make make a \"on steroids\" version of just about every other type of cruiser in the game dude, loki-vagabond clone with webs-check, prot-deimos blaster clone with massive ehp and long range scram-check, tengu-falcon clone bubble immune with more damage-check, it even has better gang link bonuses than command ships brah, you can make examples for just about everything except a good drone ship which is the point im makingi also think its good because its finally a change from standard drone use, with the extra meds u get heavy drone like damage but with more speed and less survivability of drones, its like trading tank for speed on a ship, and with the lower hp bonus they would be much easier to kill especially with smart bombs. there is little uniqueness in the drone ships and they all have the same singular drone bonus, is it that much to ask to have one ship that plays with drones a little differently cause ishtar and domi are far more similar to each other than to this"
"a pretty decent solution to the most commonly accepted and greatest exploit in eve. (using local as intel tool that is)learn to use dscan suckers."
"it would need to be pretty stout, otherwise a gang of bombers would take it out in less than a minute.or give it the same vulnerabilities the other sov structures have: i.e. to attack it requires that the system be rendered vulnerable through sbu spam."
"it cuts both ways. if its easy to disable, then its easy to rep.if anything, the beacon could get stronger based upon sov level.just throwing an example out here:sov 1: 0% resistancessov 2: 8% resistancessov 3: 16% resistancessov 4: 24% resistancessov 5: 32% resistancesi am trying to kill out two birds with 1 stone here. many folks complain about a lack of targets for small gangs. this would fill the void. disruptions in chat aren't long events but they are frequent events. makes for an interesting situation."
"i actually like this. it would make 0.0 more varied and interesting. if the beacon as fragile as you're suggesting it had better be cheap, however.it would also cause an enormous spike in jumpbridge usage throughout all alliances and would result in even less 0.0 pve isk generation in systems without a local channel (that is already in the doldrums according to the latest csm blog)to mitigate this i'd suggest variants... how about a temporary beacon that can simply be anchored in a system like a mobile warp disruptor bubble? this would be very easy to destroy but would ensure people could still go about their business in relative security. i understand that pirates, solo pvp vaga and dramiel pilots and the like would love this crap, but let's face it... it would just result in even more empty 0.0 systems.make the sov upgrade version much tougher but also more pricey, or even add a constellation local services version available in station services for outposts.so what we'd get would be;idiots ratting alone in isolated systems would be more vulnerablepotential gankers would be vulnerable flying around alliance 'capital' constellations because all of those systems would have local available.a pve oriented 'team' would have the option to anchor a t1 and more resilient t2 variant of a communications array in order to give them warning if someone appeared in their system. this would be a good counter to the current hotdrop ethos and would encourage remote mining/missioning/ratting as a group activity.an alliance moving into an area and making it a staging point, or 'capital' would be able to upgrade an outpost to support local for the constellation, constellations or even region that outpost is in. this could function as an info-war early warning system.i'm not trying to nerf your idea any, but low-sec proves that most people are fairly risk-averse, and if you make any gameplay changes that increase risk, people (specially younger players) will just go elsewhere, get bored and cancel their subs eventually."
"why shoot the beacon? using guns/missiles/drones is just boring. instead require the use of a codebreaker module to crack* the 4 character alphanumeric password the owning alliance entered when the hub upgrade was installed, then use an analyzer disable the communication network for that system.for the defenders to regain control of the communications beacon they must repeat the same process.*to prevent this process happening too quickly or being too easy, each notification of a successful code break gives the hacker one of the password characters. thus the attacker needs 4 successful attempts to get the full password."
"i think i should be able to quickly control click my fighters and drones in the drone control window. it is a major pain to have to find the fighter i need repped mid fight....this means switching over view tabs, sorting through all the other fighters on grid, locking then finally applying reps to keep that fighter in the fight. mean while keeping up with requests for reps from fleet members. not saying it cant be done, hasnt been done...cant continue to be done...but why...sorta pointless. i can control click to target fleet members for reps....why not my fighters..all i am asking.sorry if this is a horrid idea"
"i can see drone health status just fine on my drones in space overview. i'm not sure how it works for fighters (i don't fly capital ships), but it might require some major effort by the coding crews.due to my lack of advanced knowledge, i'm ambivalent about the issue, and can neither support or neglect support of this problem, if it exists."
"i don't really see it being too hard just allowing the short cut ctrl click to work for targeting fighters and drones from the drone watch window. its really is the same thing as the fleet watch window, thats all i am saying"
"supported because remapping out of per/will is useless except when its less than a year. i dont have a year of non per/will skills that i want/need to trainwould also support the idea of letting remaps stack to at least 2 normally to allow a double remap every 2 years (even though that isnt the topic)"
"in missions that have minable asteroids(pyrox, veldspar) the beacon has started to attack for 308.4 points of damage per cycle of the strip mining lasers. have attempted to attack said beacon to no avail with attack drones. its invulnerable. have mentioned this in detail with the petition crew and they say they are unable to make any changes to it. it needs to be reviewed by the developers here on this thread or the players thread. reference code re: the blockade [20110106-2272366-7380539c . this is an ongoing problem. i have been lucky enough to be in a hulk when this happens, but if i was in something much smaller, 308.4 points of damage could have easily crippled or destroyed my ship if it was a destroyer or a navitas. i would imagine that that would not be a pleasant thing for other capsuleers."
"in some missions, the asteroids are booby-trapped. local normally contains some fluff about it."
"i read the title as \"bacon attacks\", which you have to admit would be much cooler."
"i think most of us would like to see more targets and less blob for sure, if u are one of those people who don't, then ur prolly playing the wrong mmorg. last time i checked this was a pvp combat game ... not a mining / indy simulator. besides who gets off from work only to play more work?here's a solution i think might work ... add more faction drops in sigs / anomilies!, only within low sec and 0.0 mind you. this might encourage more pilots to venture out into these systems providing more targets. i started out this way and i would say it was great fun, thrilling even. as a new capsuleer carrying 100 probes in cargohold into low sec / nul to find some nice shinny stuff and yes i died a few times, but i also scored some shine too. was well worth it. now all u get are empty systems with no hits, if you do manage to find something the chances of getting something worth while is marginal ... tags and ammo \o/. where did the esculations go!?! yes this would devalue current prices on faction mods /ships but so what. let's use them ... afforable pvp, instead of covetting in station \"oh that's too spendy to pvp with\" screw that let's use this stuff!also what if you added a chance to instantly learn skills. [warning] role playing ahead. let's say you rescue some npc big wig within some sort of deadspace and for his gratitude he taught you everything he knows about (insert his profession here) instant lvl 5. sweet eh? ofc it would again be within low / 0.0in summary ... more faction drops, more sites in systems without infrastucture! the second thing thing i mentioned ... well whatever ... would be sweet though"
"you'd be surprised. in the very beginning, eve was basically a mining simulator. and today it is also an indy simulator, among many other things.as to your proposal, it is yet another well intended idea which would fail to achieve what it means to do. putting more shiny into low sec and 0.0 sites would just benefit those that already farm them anyway. and ironically the upgraded 0.0 systems are cited as one reason for decreased pvp in the latest csm summit report, because people have less of areason to go out at shoot somebody over a resource or something.finally, even if it did increase the number of people going to low sec, it would only increase the number of gank victims, not the the amount true good fights."
"cross posting is bad, mmmkay?"
"ccp has always stated it's a sci-fi simulator. no idea where you get the \"pvp combat game\" from .. i'd like to see more incentives to go to lowsec though."
"a scriptable item, high slot.when fitted: -50% weapons rof (reduced by some skill [transponder modulation, rank 6] to 25%). -50% scan res and/or targeting range.when active: capacitor and shield regeneration pause.no script: simply removes the pilot from the local channel list. targeting systems cannot function while the device is active. npcs would ignore this device. can be used while cloak modules are active.scripted: causes the pilot to appear in local, but as +5 standings to everyone in the system (friends and foes alike). this affect does not translate through fleet finder requirements."
"simple enough if you look at a drone when its attacking it simple flys around its target while its shot appears from what look like guns but 99% of the time flys in a direction thats not even close to where the weapons are facing. that said give drones the ability to \"drift\" ie fly around there target but face it at the same time"
"so have you not pvp'd in a while or is this a quiet troll? buddy, any ship with utility high slots has neuts in them these days. nos are sometimes useful for frigates, but that's only because neuts are so common that without nos a frigate would be without cap most of the time trying to hold down most targets"
"so, this may be completely the wrong venue for this suggestion, but i can't think of a better place to put it. i don't use eve gate. partially because of limited functionality, but mostly because it's not really easy to access when you're out and about. it seems like a reasonably simple solution for a lot of people would be to alleviate this accessibility barrier. make an app, not just for the iphone, but for whatever smartphones are considered viable, to allow for access and formatting that's specifically tailored for those devices. just a thought."
"an actual fix for this problem would be this:upon declaring war on an alliance the wardec is actually counted against all the individual corps with-in the alliance. if a corp decides to leave alliance the wardec will carry over to the leaving corp. this will encourage a kind of fight together or die alone approach to alliances, encouraging alliances to to actually work together as intended.of course the leaving corp is only at war for the duration of the initial wardec - in which case the aggressor has the opportunity to \"re-up\" the war dec as usual."
"wind i repeat, cheek your info, the ruling has been rescinded. point. the added part was about the op specific problem as i was pointing that the new ruling include his problem, but not only that. leaving and reentering in a alliance multiple times when war decced is no more an exploit. that was clearly stated by a senior gm some months ago. maybe it is a but unclear to you but \"under any circumstance\" mean exactly that: under any circumstance."
"this is something i just found out. my friend from alliance send it via petition as potential exploit, but it was stated by gm as working as intended. after each downtime pos shield is set to level it was before dt, but no more than its max natural shield. thats something thats just happens and doesn't affect gameplay at all, since all people see is that pos has the same hp it had before dt...but in wh space with pulsar class 6 where bonus to shield is +100% it means that pos max hp (natural max) is only 50% of its current maximum.so, when game wakes from dt pos is at 50% hp, and just a few shots from disabling all cpu based defense.this exploit is used to disable defense of pulsar based pos just after dt, and than slowly and unoposed bash it to reinforced.i would like to hear csm opinion on that matter."
"place russians and the chinese on their own server instance. allow them to rmt to each other.no longer worry about rmt in eve.everything will cost more. and may get a bit crazy. but like always we will adapt and eventually prices will stabilize.high sec mining will be worth as much as mission running. destroy bots by injecting code into the server/client that makes botting impossible."
"of all the problems in eve botting rates so far down the ****ing list it makes walking in stations seem relevant."
"ensign! load spoons and prepare to fire!"
"just wanna repeat that this dumb broad being removed from the csm is pretty much the highlight of the csm"
"nine replies short of 666. nevar forget!"
"oh well bump!"
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"shameless bump...we can't let the \"movement\" die..."
"could we try to get this added to the assembly hall sticky for hot topics?"
"my point is: fix blasters, fix rails. then reevaluate gallente ships.don't put the cart ahead of the horse"
"agreed, good post. while things need to be looked at carefully you make good points.my other nail in the gallente coffin is how fiddly the drone interface is which is a total arse in a combat situation where you need to react fast. id love to see a use for the hyperion too that acutally means i use its bonuses. its a pretty ship, or will be when the textures are fixed and a crying shame we rarely see many of them."
"believe it or not, we agree that the gallente should have the high damage at close range role. here's what i haven't heard: how 'fixing' blasters without fixing the ships themselves as well will enable gallente ships to fill this role effectively. you can buff tracking and dps on blasters all you want, but it won't change the fact that gallente ships are able to be kited ridiculously easy because of their basic design, making it impossible to actually fill this role barring pilot stupidity, blind luck, or unrealistic amounts of tackle. sure we could keep the ships the same and give blasters a big range buff, and then start playing red vs. blue online, where everyone has the same weapon's systems and tactics with different paint.frankly, i want to have a race that specializes in up close and personal combat. but the ship limitations prevent me from doing it effectively. and can someone please explain to me why minmatar should be the fastest and most agile race? i mean a serious explanation based on game balance. so the slightly higher dps of blasters is supposed to outweigh the ability of minmatar ships to outtank, outrun, and outrange gallente ships? has anyone got an actual explanation based on some kind of logic other than 'minmatar are hit and run, they're supposed to be fast.' then why don't they get the worst tanks and shortest weapon ranges. fit the design to the intent, not the other way around."
"believe me, a flat 20% damage increase for all blasters (free damage mod) will make megathron and other blaster boats very desirable - at least on part with anything else.even tho the tracking sucks, range sucks, cap sucks, grid + cpu requirements suck, it'll all be worth it the extra damage."
"if you increased dps that much, it might make the boats more desirable, for a bit at least, but frankly it won't change the fundamental design flaw of having a 'melee' ship that can't catch anything else to apply dps. all gallente ships below battleship have to choose between tank and gank, and even the battleships are so bloody slow that the extra range of large blasters barely makes up for it. if you fit for tank, you'll never catch anything. if you fit for gank, you're in half armor (and that's being generous) by the time you reach your target and guess what, he's got a better tank than you anyway. and even if you fit for gank, you're still slower than everything except the baitiest of armor buffer ships."
"gallente are in need of some serious attention.i'm not holding my breath, tho. time to train minmatar like almost everyone else."
"its about time gallente get fixed"
"thumbs up."
"yes please."
"you get what you vote for."
"apparently the current csm suffered a case of mass brain death when the topic came up. that or ccp is drugging their kool-aid."
"you get what the very limited pool of contenders allows minus voting blocks who vote their own guy. in the end you get **** no matter what.as for the topic itself. this would kill 0.0 essentially. unless logistics then is buffed into being done in 0.0. so the factor of logistics itself becomes moot. my suggestion is change amarr outpost bonus from 30% time to 30% mineral. this gives a huge boost to manufacturing in 0.0 as opposed to elsewhere. people then do it there. you then need minerals there and mining in 0.0 becomes further boosted. stuff is then built in 0.0 and those markets get filled up. overflow rolls into highsec to compete with the more expensive volume. it would be great. newbs could then go out to 0.0 via podexpress or shuttle or whatever. be able to buy their ratting and pvp ships out there. it would be glorious."
"it would kill faction warfare completely. no one would want to slow boat a massive fleet 30 or 40 jumps to get to a fight. 2 or 3 hours flying 10 seconds exploding, then 2 or 3 hours to get back? no way. regions would get dug in and become completely insular, everyone sticking to their own constellations, maybe attacking their neighbors, fleets would shift to only those ships with jump capability. nothing but dreads and carriers, titans wouldn't be used since their bridge ability would make them too valuable."
"it would make space big again, make logistics meaningful, and hot drops of thousands of ships no longer trivial. what is there not to like again?very supported."
"the bit where, faced with journeys of 30+ jumps to get to hostile territory and another 30+ jumps to get home again, the typical 0.0 alliance member will say, 'nope, can't be bothered' and carry on running sanctums at home instead."
"jump bridges are the second biggest mistake ccp every made, and they fixed #1."
"bridges make null into a carebear land that is safer than 1.0 high-sec. think about it for a second.not to mention the whole lameness of them working in jammed systems and allowing da blob to move around with a speed faster than any attacker could possibly hope to match .. bridges are a large contributor to the blob-fare, good riddance. about time the csm stones dropped and bared their teeth."
"what is bad about that exactly? you mean alliances actually holding onto only the territory they can actually reasonably use and care about is a problem?and why should they move 30+ jumps in the first place again?space should be big, getting anywhere in 0.0 is safer and faster than getting anywhere in high sec. this needs fixed."
"alliances that put in the effort and put down the infrastructure gain the benefit. 0.0 is only 'safer' than highsec in the sense that alliances provide the security themselves and human brains are better able to work towards mutual protection than npcs.why is everyone so obsessed with making 0.0 life filled with as much time-consuming and un-fun bull**** as possible? i realise that highsec nobodies who've never stepped outside motsu and jita have a limited grip on what eve is, but the idea that players spending an hour warping through empty systems to fight for 3 minutes would be good for eve, or that 'sorry guys, we can't do the roaming hac op tonight because we need you to escort our freighters for 30 jumps instead' is going to make people want to log in and play, isn't based on anything resembling objective game concerns."
"ccp greyscale warns,... everything will go to sh!t."
"in addition to the legitimate concerns voiced above, this would be a massive buff to capitals and supercapitals, especially titans. essentially, an alliance with sufficient funds and high-sp pilots could just get a titan to bridge subcapital ships on every operation of any importance. meanwhile, the plebeians who have one or two titans in their alliance may have to burn 30 jumps to get to where they need to go.additionally, the supercarrier pilots can just give a hearty \"lol subcaps\" in local and jump out of system.rich, old alliances would have the difficulty of keeping their space empires running pretty much unchanged, while newer, poorer alliances would be screwed out of nullsec.this would be a major step in bringing eve online closer to supercaps online, and it is exceedingly odd that it was considered seriously, as the minutes show that the csm discussed the supercapital hotdrop as being more-or-less a \"win\" button in nullsec engagements right before discussing why jump bridges should be removed."
"this would be accompanied by cyno nerf and possible titan bridge nerf and jump range nerf you know... also supercarrier on top of that."
"oh ****. so they have to make a choice between the safety of deep inside their empire, or the convenience of being close to the front lines. that sounds terrible.i would welcome that."
"me too, all of those."
"tens of thousands move around in high-/low-sec using that age old invention called stargates, are null citizens too good/posh to actually move their fat asses or do you really think that having what amounts to a teleportation system is good for the game?it is apparently good enough for the people who moseyed over slow like to within your bridge network.bloat empires are an abomination, systems should be used and not be wastelands just because the nearby blob says so.wonder why ccp created jump freighters .. ah yes, to help with null logistics. the fact that it is possible to move actual freighters around with very little trouble is part of the broken mechanic.the whole idea of having a spy/observer at bridge points and moving hundreds of ships ahead of an interloper is ludicrous.by removing bridges the null entities will be forced to actually patrol the various pipes, sucks to be an obese alliance if it comes to pass."
"well, over in f&i i proposed a system where infrastructure like jump bridges (or jammers, etc) would only be available where sovereignty holders have made substantial long-term investments in a given area of space, and where the extent of functionality of a given type of infrastructure (e.g., range of jump bridge) would exist on a scale based on the extent of the development in the system. i think this would make it possible to have jump bridges in the game without having their existence in every system being a given. they would be a relative luxury for the hubs in the system."
"sounds good to me. get rid of jbs before the whole of 0.0 is just two big powerblocks presiding over their bot empires."
"i'll support this.we've all known for some time that ccp has been unhappy with the way 0.0 and low sec space has panned out, sometimes you have to remove or radically alter things to fix the problem."
"the csm are doing what the players want, i know i welcome this change. of course it's not a change yet, just that about 90% of the player base wouldn't mind it being on the table."
"the problem with this is that, while the territory holder may have to put weeks or even months into working the infrastructure up to a given point, the enemy can laugh their way in, regardless of forces marshaled against them, and blast it to flinders in a couple of days.the balance is hopelessly skewed toward the invader and lack of any sort of limit on the number of supercaps in a given system means that they can simply steamroll their way through system after system uncontested.as for the 'bridge issue... for those of you railing against them, saying they're too easy and whatnot, have you seen what happens when a group of 5 bombers can do at a jump bridge? even one bomber can create considerable havoc. add in a light dictor with eyes on the other side of the bridge and you have an unescapable deathtrap.they're also insanely costly; billions a month to operate."
"no. ****** wannabe pirate griefers don't need another avenue to epeen all over."
"reminds me of a completely hypothetical chap who i just made up; the guy started playing lotr online, but quit due to frustration over there being so many damned elves."
"i honstly dont think it matters to me. by the time they put something like that in i probly would not be geting off my ship anyways. the only way this would bother most of us high sec people is if we had to get off of ship to go pick or turn in missions. after checking it out i probly will never get off my ship again."
"that is exactly why wis needs real content."
"true but this kind of content should go into low sec stations. high sec stations would get better usage out of min games blackjack/poker with isk and so on. should be kind of common knowlage by now that thoughs that dont like pvp are not going to pvp. even when you put good pve content next to pvp the non pvper's just dont use that content and when they get bored they quit. think of all the subs ccp would have if there pveer's did not quit after geting bored with level 4's.even uo wised up and started spliting there pve content away from pvp. i only use uo becouse it one started out as a purely pvp game and two it's also a skills based game even if the skills are gained in differnt ways."
"i support this idea. as long as whenever i take a walk in a station, i can be surrounded by my army of hired npc goons that will blast your face to smithereens the second they first see a weapon in your hand.as long as you're cool with that, i support ganking in stations.you want an eve-universe fps, play dust. i'm a rock-star not a grunt."
"all you'd do is make everyone clustered in safe hi-sec stations, and people would use disposable griefing alts to disrupt chat, same as current eve. i don't know why this forum community is so hell bent on making every change that might get people into the game and who will eventually try pvp, or retain pvpers bored with the lack of features worthless."
"i only give conditional support.if the resulting gankfest results in the permanent death of the ganked character. you only get your clone if you are in your pod."
"bump to the front"
"\"average\" might be affected by bloodline. but absolute min/max limits should be the same for everyone. also, 4 feet is too short. proportions would be wrong."
"ccp has deemed height adjustments to fall under the vanity aspect. you will be able to do many things like adjust your height and add tatoos and such via microtransactions."
"source? link?"
"supported"
"i'm down with some much needed drone loveif there not going to fix hybirds at least fix drones. then blaster domix's would rock any smart bombers that come to get there senterys :)hell this fix's to drones would even come close to fixing galante ships as they are now."
"however it's done, the drone ai has needed a look at for a long time."
"yes, drones are idiotic currently."
"i know the csm has already argued with ccp about this, but wouldnt it be nice if they could speak them again about it? maybe take a strongly supported proposal, this one, and use it to support the csm agreement against using facebook this way?-windjammer"
"signed. not voting if it involves me setting up a fb account. its not hard to make your own voting system ccp"
"signed!facebook is just for the dumbest of the dumb and all who use it should loose the right to live."
"supported"
"i would be happy to ... now, how do we make it happen ?"
"i can see how this is gonna be used by scammers selling cap rechargers for 1 billion in a specific station, and lazy people not paying attention to the price."
"presumably such an option would have a notification along the lines of 'the purchase you are about to make will cost you xxx,xxx isk. do you wish to proceed?'. if your new rifter is about to cost you a billion isk, you'll have the opportunity to detect this and decline the purchase.this is a good idea (it was a good idea when i proposed it a while back too )"
"this happens anyway for people who purchase things directly from the group tab in the market instead of choosing which one to buy. eve doesn't always put the lowest price in the group tabs, so when this does happen oh-well."
"supported"
"this tbfh!so much space, so small a number of points of interest/places of interaction.."
"/me gives a thumbs-up"
"quoted for truth.anyone remember freelancer? most systems and areas had a very distinct feel to them."
"my father works with this kind of thing on a regular basis. trust me there are hundreds of programs out there that can either read the captcha thing (even if no human can) or simply intercept the code being sent to the system to display the captcha.and to make it usable to the masses, such a thing would likely have the \"give me a different one\" or the \"audio playback\" for those who have trouble with captchas. both of which would make it even easier for bots."
"do you have any idea what this means? it means you and i are back to square one. how to effectively battle the bots?"
"unless it is abc that will net 30 mil or more an hour i don't want to scan it down. not supported"
"exactly ccp problem. they need to fight the bots without annoying the playerbase too much. to your list of problems with the captcha you can add people with different screen resolutions from what ccp consider standard.if you read the 2nd round of the minutes of the last csm/ccp meetings and the comments, even if most of the stuff is covered by the nda, it is clear that the discussion on detecting bots moved very fast to detecting rmt. for ccp it is easier to detect rmt rings, 1 gm doing the investigation will close teens or hundred of accounts in one swoop and will help fighting hacking attempts. while researching \"simple\" botters for personal use the same gm spending the same time would close very few accounts with noticeably lesser beneficial effects from the time spent. so, unless a bot is too flagrant and easy to confirm, ccp will prefer to spend the manpower against rmt. an interesting note is that ccp keep informed on the real money = isk exchange prices used by rmt. as they keep the relevant sites monitored i suspect they buy the botting programs and check them first for keyloggers and then for signature behaviour that can be detected serverside. sadly it is a problem of cost against efficiency. it is the same reason why in rl the police stop chasing a criminal when the \"cost\" is higher than the damage he has done. a cop will chase a guy shoplifting 2 apples in a market for some hundred meters but will not start a search hose for house if he lose him. if the same person is part of a organized band that robs several shops every night the search for them will be constant and use a lot of resources. shoplifting do hundreds of millions of dollars in damages in a year but the single shoplifter is a small fry."
"so it's generally left up to the players to do the hunting then. sounds reasonable. after all, if ccp is better at catching rmt rings than individual bots, then that's their job. time to setup my ganking ship."
"ok."
"since we'll now have fully modeled 3-d avatar, i propose that ccp use them to replace the generic corpses floating in space after a podding. it would make the corpses much nicer to collect and make good use of the new avatars.basically, if you pod someone, instead of some generic corpse with your victim's name, it would be a fully rendered version of their avatar as the corpse."
"this sounds like a logistical nightmare. i mean, considering that the avatars are hugely expensive in terms of computational power and memory and it would require a lot of artist work to ensure that each avatar (using the unique visuals created in the creator, of course) looks nice and properly, um, cooked. but you know what? i still like it. /supported"
"yesthis must happen or the jove will kill minmatar slave children till it does. and let us use the 3d image feature to look at them!maybe even make them backwards compatible with corpses we already possess?"
"yes, in a game like eve there is no reason why what you see graphically on your screen should always be the same thing as that on the server."
"you have obviously never been into a 1000+ pilots fight while forgetting to turn off effects."
"x2 clearly a botter"
"it's just people voicing opinions, bro; relax. :)and fyi, no, they cannot work on two major areas at the same time; at least not without doubling their dev team, that is. and, realistically, they're not gonna do the latter, of course. we've already seen this with dust 514, where certain eve 'to-do' projects were shelved in order to devote resources to the former. so, likewise, any major efforts towards cool in-station gift shops and all, while i'd love to see things like that become a reality one day, will inevitably come at the expense of working on the space aspect of things. so, asking ccp for a wee restraint in that area doesn't seem unreasonable.also, incarna has the potential to be if not game-breaking, then certainly game-changing, in that doing primarily in-station 3d stuff would essentially make eve a fundamentally different game from what it is now. again, not saying ccp will go that far, of course; but asking them to please not go overboard with it, and to not forget the old space element of eve, to me appears more than a reasonable request.still supported."
"except there is. this one line pretty much guarantees my opposition as you clearly lack any sort of respect for this aspect of the game they are developing - at least, not enough respect to see videos on the subject released all the way back in 2008 which do, in fact, show that it is more than simply walking around playing dress-up. this entire thread is predicated on the assumption that ccp cannot possibly have different parts of the team working on different parts of the game at once.newsflash! they've been doing that this whole freakin' time. since the time they started the project (what was it, 2007?), they've released trinity, empyrean age, quantum rise, apocrypha, dominion, tyrannis, and coming up on incursion. they didn't stick incarna on the back-burner while they did all this; they had people working on the space game, people working on the station parts, and people working on both all these years. what you really want is for them to not ignore old features and iterate on them after they're released, which has nothing at all to do with their focus (or lack thereof) on incarna."
"just say no to jiggly jugs. but he's right. this is a space ship game."
"me too, but please check the 'support this topic'-box joss!"
"pretty simple, yulai in modern eve would be perfectly capable of handling the number of players that would use it, so i wanted to see how many people would support returning the old highway system and yulai back to their old selves."
"what was the highway sistem?"
"the quickest way to get from one faction's region to another was usually through concord's genesis region and yulai. ccp broke this because yulai would crash tq when it had 250 or more people in it."
"jumpgates connecting the regions with less 'hopps' than today..@op, not supported"
"less hops sounds like a good idea"
"supported. reducing number of people stuck in traveling would decrease server load as a whole. if the local node can support it, it's a net positive for server load."
"why wouldn't a highly advanced space civilization not have a highway system."
"i like"
"i hate jita enough that i want it to wither and die.and then there's the nostalgia angle.so hells yes, bring back the superhighway. supported."
"supported, for all the qq from caldari traders."
"yeah, i need to change the image to say uplex eh?"
"i'm not really sure how useful this would be for the average person who can fly a freighter. you can already fit 2 unpackaged battleships in a freighter, so this ship would need to be much bigger to fit 5 or more."
"yes, i like it."
"1.0"
"1) the upper limit for volume is 1,000,000m3 as to not allow capitals to be moved into and through high sec.2) if you want to move more than one rigged battleship use several courier contracts (981,250m3 in a charon with lvl5 freighter skill). if it is profitable to move that many rigged bs from one place to another you can surely churn out the 20-40m per contract to get this stuff moved, no?not needed."
"irrelevant argument. repackaged ships are not allowed in the ship maintenance hangar, so your limit would not be needed because it would require something like 16,250,000 m3 to move a typical dread. by setting a limit of 2.5 - 5 million m3 in the ship bay gives you space to move bs-sized ships (depending on how many you want the freighter to move).ok. courier contracts. first of all, i find it strange that this game mechanic exists in the first place. think about it. if you own a couple of battleships, and you own a freighter, you cannot move them by yourself. (i am assuming that contracts have not changed significantly since i last looked at them - you cannot contract to yourself, right?) you cannot simply drop your rigged ships into your freighter for transport. no, you have to use a game mechanic to turn your ship into a courier contract, and then get someone else to move your ships for you. i understand that this is how you can move your property, but why should you have to rely on someone else to do it for you? ya, i know, get an alt or a corp-mate to do it. same argument: why can't i do it myself? i bought/built the ships. i own them. why do i have to get someone else to move them?i understand that a game mechanic exists to move your ships around, but it isn't a logical mechanic in my mind. you are forced to use another character, corp-mate, or trust your ships to a contract (not knocking the people who do this kind of thing). this proposal is a way for people to be self-sufficient. after a bit more consideration, i think something like 3,000,000 m3 in the ship hangar is sufficient. that would allow you to move 6 bses. that is a significant improvement over the freighter - but it is only good for assembled ships. again - a niche role for this ship. a useful and important niche, i believe."
"thinking about the size of the ship it would take to move that much m3... crazy idea - but maybe the ship would be more like a giant, modularized scaffolding system - almost skeletal-like. the scaffolding holds the ship in place and would have all of the robotic arms/appendages necessary to act as a maintenance bay, but the actual hull of the ship would be open to space. you would actually be able to see the ships hanging from the scaffolding inside the ship, because the hull was removed/cut away to decrease the mass and volume of the ship.so the armor and structure of the ship would also have to be reduced from a typical freighter. but because the interbus is associated with the jovians, it would compensate for the lack of armor and structure by having overpowered shields. this would protect the cargo inside.not looking to make the ship immune to attack, just something comparable to a freighter/jf/orca for ehp. enough to withstand all but the most determined suicide gank in high sec. low sec? your on your own and you better hope those shields hold out...just a crazy idea - i am not including it in the proposal, but putting it here as an adjunct to the proposal. something for further discussion."
"it's an mmo..this aside afaik devs replied in the contract feedback thread, on testserver forums i think it was, that we would be able to get some kind of wrapping for our own stuff to be moved in our own freighters.. dunno if this included rigged ships.also you didn't understand the first 2 non-supporters.one has concerns about this new vessel of yours to be able to be used as mobile boarding base for high sec ganking.the mechanic is that the outlaw guy comes into system with his pod and boards a shiney new battleship with no concord/faction any around and goes on a killing spree with all his friends.the other one told you that you can put a shuttle into the cargobay of any battleship and make a manual trip for each one of them to be moved and fly back in the shuttle."
"supported."
"there is no way to get a negative wallet with game mechanics related to trading. the order you place with the margin trading skill will only be filled if you have enough isk on the wallet.if there is not enough isk on the wallet the order will vanish and the trade doesn't happen. there is no isk out of thin air here.tell your friend that he should at least have some knowledge of gamemechanics before he sends you out to propose bull****.if it is the other way round i apologise and tell you to buy some brainz and test stuff before you come to the forums proposing changes.that one i can support as it makes sense and probably has been brought up before.."
"for rmt reasons sure... you don't know how margin trading works though."
"seems my idea has gotten some thought:"
"it turns out direct griefing isn't the only kind of pvp. market competition is pvp too.i like your idea, but it needs a little modification. instead of shorting out the conceptually unlimited supply from the moon, your mining probe should return a tiny, tiny fraction of the moon goo my massive, expensive, and highly vulnerable tower harvests in an hour, and should not cut into my supply.but because of economics, it will still cut into my profits, and make your vagabonds cheaper.and it creates an active, fun, and small-scale kind of moon-mining, while potentially giving my towers something to shoot at.so how about it?"
"i really do dearly wish people would shut up about things they don't understand.gathering moon goo is already a tremendous pain in the ass."
"no i think stealing a bit of the income of the operational pos is the only way to go otherwise the larger corps will just set up a pos on their best moons like usual and then setup a butt ton of ships to eek just a little bit more off it. having active moon miners steal a bit from the moon mining pos makes it so that this kind of exploit is not at all an option, while taking advantage of a too spread out corp that is mining many moons becomes a possibility."
"if they have that kind of manpower and want to do that, what's the issue? those ships would need to be outside pos shields and are potentially vulnerable to being targeted and destroyed, and it gives a benefit to active (and not over-extended) corps. i really don't see the downside.most poss are managed by a single guy that does that and little else for his corporation. corps do not have the time and manpower to take away from their other activities to watch these things 24/7 and even if they did, preventing the kind of action we're talking about is enormously difficult and incredibly boring.making the game more boring is bad.if the idea is just to make pos profitability go away (and thus make the t2c component market dry up and drive the cost of t2 through the roof) this idea can do that. if the idea is to actually have fun pvp, my way is better."
"attacker flies into a mission of someone, mission can't be completed any more << major problem.no standing loss for turned down missions in low sec would be start.then you'd need a mechanic, that any additional ship that appears in a low sec mission spawns another batch of rats to engage that new threat along with the rats already on grid.and the response would need to be dangerous for the additional attacker.however.. this discussion is moot as ccp can't/wont obviously put more cpu cycles into npc as the servers would probably die.if it were possible we'd already have this (sleeper ai for mission npc)."
"you don't know what you are talking about."
"makes perfect sense. i would very like to see this instead of the carbon copies of high sec missions currently in low sec.supported."
"truthfully i would quit and go back to eq2. the carebear tears are now the pirat tears. they cryed and cryed till they could scandown low sec mission runners till they got it. could not be happy with ganking at stations and gates and belts. you got what you wanted now choke on it."
"if eve had stayed true to itself it would not be the eve of today with alot fewer customers to begin with. true there would be no massive repercussions becouse eve would be mins the high sec populats that never would have stayed pass the free trial to begin with. dont belive me just look at low sec after you got all the changes there that you wanted. now keep your ruthless low sec and choke on it."
"get a new pc. seriously.and stop trying to game on freakin' netbooks."
"^^ this."
"there are new space sim mmos coming. black prophecy, for example, use spaceforce 2 engine. eve's current graphics, even at max settings, are beyond antiquated. if ccp don't update graphics, it won't stand a chance at being competitive down the line. to you spreadsheet ppl, eve is still a game, it need graphics to sell."
"i suppose it is a good thing that i have plans to build myself a new rig then. i am currently though stuck on a laptop that at best runs eve at 20 fps. my plans until now had nothing to do with eve just only the fact that 2011 is going to be a epic year for hardcore gaming. man i feel for you, being in the same crowd as you, but the time comes to upgrade or watch as the world moves on without you."
"i'll add some observations based on my experience with loki and tengu - ships that i flew for several months and have over 200 kills with.loki can be designed as very good sniper or very good ac close range ship. 2 very different roles, both turned near perfection.loki can be either shield or armor tanked effectively.i think loki is best example of how t3 design should be approached - many good options.tengu is very good with missiles, but it's absolutely horrible with hybrids. and it's not just cause the hybrids suck right now. the subsystems were designed to make it weak. and tengu is shield tank only, there's no option for good armor tank.tengu is one of the best t3 but it's good setups are limited and predictable. i wish it had viable hybrid option.i also analyzed proteus and legion subsystems and i see same problem as with tengu - limited versatility. proteus is sub-par with drones. legion is sub-par with missiles.the ew subsystems for legion and tengu are too weak to be useful. loki's and proteus' ew subsystems are good only because they deal with augmenting tackle power, which does not require sacrificing your mid/high slots in good pvp setups. tengu has to sacrifice tank to get benefit. legion has to sacrifice damage. and the benefit is too little.t3 were meant to be extremely versatile and unpredictable. but it's just not so. there are only a few good choices."
"why not give bonuses that create a t3 droneboat the correct way, instead of lots of lights\" what happened to dronebay volume bonus and damage bonus, you know, like a normal droneboat? as opposed to \"micro-carrier with swarm of little drones.\""
"this. i was incredibly disappointed with the proteus's lack of drone bonuses. its a gallente ship for goodness sake."
"while it would be acceptable to have it at least perform like a proper drone boat, it would be nice to have a drone boat that played a little different, i kinda like the micro carrier ideaso alternatively instead of the +1 drone perhaps increase the engineering sub bandwidth to 50m3 from 25m3"
"piracy has always existed in low sec and always should. the death of low sec is not piracy but somthing that was introduced by ccp, probing. initially there were enougth anti pirate characters in low sec, to fight off gate camps ect and you could also mine and run missions with a modicum off safty, but when probing and droping super caps on mission runners became common place the risks became greater than the rewards, hence the death of low sec space, and the failure of level 5 missions to attract many participents, reflects this. a ship set up for mission running will nearly always get killed by a ship set up for pvp, the pvp ship nearly always has the option to run if things turn out badly while the pve ship does not generally have that option due to being tackled.its not usual to fit tackling mods to pve ships. until ccp give pve pilots a fair chance to survive and prosper in low sec it will remain a ghost sec"
"interesting ideas, and very likable from the point of view of verisimilitude......but......as you said, lowsec needs pirates like cornflakes need milk. the solution isn't to drive off the pirates, but to attract the carebears.lowsec is a totally lawless region. gate and station guns are a joke, making lowsec ironically usually more dangerous than nullsec, especially the highsec-lowsec and lowsec-nullsec thresholds.and yet, money-making operations conducted in lowsec are little more profitable than ones in highsec. this breaks the risk-reward paradigm into tiny pieces, roasts those pieces with a flamethrower, and stomps on them for several minutes, and then tosses them into the ocean out of a helicopter.the solutions to this are to reduce risk and/or to increase reward. ideally, risks for pirates should rise somewhat (i would like to see effective gate and station defenses along with sporadic concord responses in lowsec, for example. the man isn't guaranteed to show, but he might.) and rewards for carebears and pirates alike should rise considerably.one idea would be to make the asteroids in lowsec's disused belts richer (in the sense that they refine better) as they remain disused. another is to change the way lowsec mission sites work so that they can more reasonably be completed in a pvp-capable fit or offer substantially greater rewards from agents."
"this should be kicked out of the game (combat probes)any replacable pawn with his 1 old day alt is abble to scan down every ship size. the pirates in this one can blame them selves for what they have donne with.0 chance for the runner or runners, what were pirates expecting? -that the missioner returns and says them \"thanks, gf!\" ? also my little experience of low shown me this (comming from high sec): 80% chance to get blowned by a gate camp in less than 4 jumps.so wy the hell should i go in low or 0.0, do missions, explore or whatever?the problem about 0.0 or low sec in my opinion it's more about the players than the game it self. they have what they wanted, what have they done with?the mess it is right now.francly, it's time they have serious drawbacks for all theyr actions. simply hope that some day they have the same problems to play than we (runners) have right now."
"i think this proposal is on wrong track. pirates (below -5) already have enough hard time since everyone can shoot them and they cannot enter hi sec. they're really really not why low sec isn't lucrative. anyone in local is possible threat. and low sec is usually more populated than 0.0 because there is stations everyone can dock. go figure."
"supporting. it's dumb as hell how the scs have obsoleted dreads for shooting structures, seeing as they don't have to sit still for 10 minutes at a time. and then they go and utterly obsolete carriers for rr and offensive drone capability.i agree with all your changes."
"definitely agree with this, it's ridiculous that the only thing worth taking to a capital fight now is a sc or titan. there was a graph that showed the number of supercaps in the game over time, and they've just shot up like 200% every month or something since the changes."
"definitely agree."
"supported. just look at this screenshot, and that's tame by the nc or pl standards.nyxes"
"all of this."
"not supported. i like the way super carriers are working right now. they do not make other classes of ship obsolete if for no other reason than their cost. they arent a swiss army knife, theyre simply a very large drone boat. drone boats are, by their nature, somewhat more versatile than other types of ships.-windjammer"
"dread buff please."
"supporting to make eve less \"supercaps online\"."
"supported"
"sc's were buffed too much. i think adding bombers for them wasn't thought through. if i recall right primary concern at first place was sc's being paper thin, instead of fixing this issue something went overboard.whatever. just supporting."
"supported"
"not supported, this will make it too easy to decline.i could support a 30 minute shortening of the timer though, making it so that you can decline one in every 6/7 (depending on completion time) missions."
"the idea occurred to me in how to work mt into the game as painlessly as possible. the following was my idea:tl;dr - ccp should not create items to sell for mt. ccp should instead sell the ability to create and promote vanity items for mt.1) player rents storefront with incarna for mt2) player creates vanity item (i.e. clothing) with mt3) player uses advertising space paid for with mt4) player sells product for isk.results: the world's first player-driven mt market."
"self-supported."
"what sort of designer items? clothing, modules, ships?"
"ships themselves would probably be out because it wouldn't be something players themselves could easily design for individual creativity. but clothing, hair, ship paint jobs, custom tatoos, special effect snowball ammo. things players themselves can design, sell, make knockoffs, and whatever other tools ccp can implement to let us create our own special designer vanity stuff."
"why wouldn't they do both? all you did was explain how ccp can get extra money out of their subscribers, but you didn't explain why they shouldn't continue selling items themselves too. mt from designers and mt for buying ccps fluff packs. as long as i can use a plex to buy the fluff, from my perspective i'm just using isk to buy it. so from the individual player perspective your idea doesn't offer anything really new to justify scrapping ccp provided mt options.i hate mt and i don't even like the fluff mt that doesn't influence gameplay, since the devs will have to limit their free options in order to sell their own mt products. i'm honest enough to admit, that fluff mt is a good way to increase revenue though. people who just want to play can ignore it and wont suffer any negatives. the people who care about their looks will spend money to look good and there are many such people. ccp has tied plexs to it, so even people who aren't willing to spend rl dollars on it will buy their products. i can't see ccp abandoning that plan, especially now since they have already built their entire system around it. they are either going to ignore you or just do both. considering how tight limits ccp has put around appearance in the new cc, in order to make sure people fit to the eve universe and to ensure the high quality of the customisation options, i'm sceptical that ccp would allow this. most people couldn't design anything of high enough quality and even the rest would have to be subjected to ccp review before implementation. it isn't impossible, but remember how much issues just a few alliance logo images caused ccp and how long it at times took to get them in-game.i have nothing against the basic idea though, since it will increase the number of customization options available and brings fresh ideas to the table. i just don't think it is a reason for ccp to stop producing their own sellable content."
"i do not support any mts at all"
"not supporting any kind of micro transaction.i will also not vote the for any csm candidate who isn't explicitly against any sort of mt, including vanity items."
"*windjammer gets a mirror to check his cheeks, finds nothing wrong and suspects hes the butt of a practical joke.*ccp made a very big deal when they put forth the ruling im citing. they were very rigid, very clear, highly public and most serious. unless theyve had a changing of the guard or simply got tired of enforcing their ruling, rescinding it makes no sense.however, if youd care to link the information and it supports your claim, ill be grateful for the information. if not, ill have to believe you mistaken on this issue.-windjammer"
"this is should be exploit because in hi sec you cannot shoot pos without wardec."
"i must admit defeat.i am still pretty sure to have read a gm/dev statement rescinding that ruling, but after spending really too much time searching for that post i have found nothing, while i have found a recent (june 2010, here) statement by gm grimmi citing that ruling explicitly.taken in contest with the whole thread leaving a alliance while wardecced and with a pos in reinforcement to refuel it and then rejoining the alliance is already a petitionable exploit. try escalating the petition and point to gm grimmi post above. from her words \"repeating\" the process is a exploit."
"i agree. working as intended, it's a risk you can choose to take."
"i have sent off an email to ask for this to be looked at, but it may well be an intended consequence."
"give me one reason why jita should have more concord protection than other 0.9 and 1.0."
"just learn to create a warp to off grid straight out from jita 4-4. problem solved. my freighter is out of that mess in seconds."
"i stopped reading about here.get out, lol."
"funny thing is that jita is the most dangerous system in all of new eden. when you view the map statistics on how many ships have been destroyed in the last 24 hours jita lights up like a super nova."
"i like my mining thank you."
"the purpose of this thread is to announce a csm working meeting and permit delegates to identify the issues and other csm business matters they wish to raise at that meeting. csm5 meeting 013 will take place sunday 23 january 2011 @ 17:00 eve time. all csm5 delegates and alternates are invited to attend. the deadline for delegates to submit issues for the agenda is saturday 22 january 2011 at 20:00. to get an issue added to the agenda, csm delegates must post the issue title in this thread and link it to the the issue's csm wiki page (not its thread in these forums). a maximum of 9 issues will be considered in the meeting. delegates are encouraged to post multiple issues; issues will be addressed in rotating order, 1 per delegate, until the max is reached.note to community: csm working meetings generally rotate between 2nd saturday/4th sunday dates unless circumstances force a variance. =============================agendaa. introduction-- roll call-- remindersb. issues-- (dierdra vaal) hide avatars in channel participants list -- (dierdra vaal) export/import keyboard shortcut configc. other business-- continuity document-- post-summit matters-- tbd"
"this latest from you is easy rationalization from a one dimensional person and close to the edge of text book circular logic. i.e. theyre ill-informed if they voted for ankh and well informed if they voted for your candidate.. because you say they areironically, you just lent support to my assertion that you were wrong to say everyone knows she has none of the former (referring to common sense). unless youre saying all those people supported her and voted for her while thinking she had no common sense.by your reasoning, anyone who has suffered a fit of anger is lacking in common sense. that would include a lot of people. almost certainly every person in the world including all the leaders. some of whom have made very public spectacles of their anger including the use of thrown objects. they suffered a lapse in judgment, but it cannot be reasonably argued that they were all without any common sense. of course, i exempt you from the above due to the shiny little halo youve got going there.as for the rest of your plenty of examples? i would hazard a guess that it is sufficient for a point of view to be different from your own for you to judge it based upon a lack of common sense.-windjammer"
"what an enlightened point of view. such an unexpected and completely surprising perspective from one of the swarm and so well expressed too. i would have expected you to find something one of the swarms delegates had done to be the highlight. apparently you share my impression that the swarm didnt do squat save attempt to serve themselves. not that i didnt have respect for bane during the first csm.im so happy to see youre trying to expand your mind. i usually think of you fellows as blindly parroting whatever pureed bull plop your leadership is feeding you. so nice to see at least one of the little bees striking out on his own. the brave imagery fair brings a tear to the eye. it truly does. lone little bee, buzzing along, thinking independentlysay..hows darius doing these days? well, i hope.very best regards,windjammer"
"i never said those people who supported her didn't have common sense, they were just lacking in knowledge of her platform and of her past comments/behavior on the forums. her behavior in all of those mediums show a lack of an internal switch that tells her to shut the hell up when it's not in her best interest.as an elected member of the csm she had certain responsibilities, those included representing the best interests of her constituents (i.e those who elected her.) her inability to control her emotions was indicative of an underlying issue that has been highlighted multiple times in these forums as well as on numerous other sites such as eve tribune. she never had the constitution to represent those she claimed she was representing, she only wanted things her way. like a spoiled child she lashed out when she didn't get what she wanted... that's not how a representative of a majority should behave.edit:even more so her is the fact that she was kicked off the csm. we are judged by our actions, and her actions show that she was not capable of representing those who voted for her (unless those who voted for her expected her to get kicked off the csm.) she failed all those eve citizens who voted for her, however she stayed true to those who spoke against her."
"jita is the wall street of eve. get use to it or don't go there."
"to be fair apocrypha 1.5 was a great update for fw. it made fw missions viable and really made everything except the core of fw (occupancy plexing) very good.i do think ccp understood that occupancy plexxing was supposed to be the core to fw. that is why when they released the 1.5 patch they said:some final wordsit is important to remember that all the above is not a \"fix\" for factional warfare. it is only the first step of many to put its implementation back into the original vision that was ours during the empyrean age release. in the meantime, we do hope you will welcome such changes when they hit tranquility, which should hopefully be sooner than you think."
"now if they would just use the incursion plexes for fw (+easier ones that are soloable), you are already alot further."
"yep something has definitely gota be changed about the gaining occupancy, as ur point 3 says, today i just went around all 7 systems on the minmatar side of the border that were either occupied by amarr or contested, none of them had a plex to take over inside them, i did the check over systems abotu 3 hours after down time, so even if minmatar could drive out every single amarrian in that system for the 21hours left of the day, it would count for nothingas it is currently, the only pvp is who can hold the system for the first half an hour after downtimealso just read the post about why plex's, if there's another way (more meaningful way) to occupy systems that would be nice :) also a meaning to occupy them, heres an idea, make it a bit like 0.0 is in the way that once you own it, you can upgrade it by doing things in the system"
"the exceptionally sad thing is, this half an hour is the best pvp the game eveonline has ever seen.it's the gold, it's the magic that has been stumbled apon, and it's ignored."
"well well well, what have we herebut hey, i'm sure that everyone else thinks supercarriers are completely fine and this thread is just bitter goonie nerfsploits because they can't beat them with their t1 noob rifters, right guys?"
"like everything else things have ben buffed or nurfed. another option please"
"so you want an option to bring them into line that isnt a nerf or buff? do explain how you plan to accomplish that."
"supercarriers need to be rebalanced, but your proposed changes are largely terrible, since they mostly incorporate straw men and single-scenario circumstances without looking at the broader spectrum of supercap use. more to the point, it's engaging in a silly buff/nerf cycle rather than creating more tools and allowing player innovation, rather than sheer numbers and dumb luck/server performance dictate engagements. i agree on the supercarrier hp nerf, or at the very least making a shield equivilant to slaves (and having gang stat bonuses not reset meaning 10-45% of your shields disappearing every trucking jump), but supercaps are a huge time/isk investment, and a similar time/isk investment should be demanded to down one of these behemoths. as for the whining about supercaps being able to shake tacklers too easily, at least in 0.0, i blame this on substandard tacklers, not 'wtfpwnmobile' supercaps. i've been on several supercap kills that one dictor has been sufficient to keep a supercap tackled. a couple of much more practical solutions include:- all dreads get an extra utility highslot, and create a module for it akin to hictor superpoint (scripted), usable only in siege. this will allow regular cap fleets to have some combat capability against supercapital fleets that come looking for ganks, but still force a commitment. hictors and dictors can be used for primary tackle, and dreads for the follow-through. you'll see a number of neut dreads as a result as well, but this will also help the supercap destruction you so desire. - bring back aoe doomsday in some form: this is both a huge supercap nerf (bye bye bombers/fighters!) and a much needed change to see a bit more variety in fleets than the current rediculously logistics dominated doctrines. 1 per system per hour would be a lovely, lovely inclusion with it to prevent unrealistic castling for the defender, but i'll settle for 20-30k damage. if you'd like a much lazier way to prevent multi-doomsdays scenarios, just add to every doomsday a huge energy neutralization side-effect to all hit ships. gives a much more catastrophic-failure-doomsday like element to it. personally, i'm ok with 4 titans instajibbing all the logis/support/recons from the fleet, especially given that with the improvements in server performance, in most scenarios you should have no problems dodging more than a single dd. (finally, i'm willing to wager that at 30k damage, you'd need about 50 titans to drop a nidhoggur blob, which with 50 titans you could adequately do in an easier fashion than said hypothetical mechanic)- capital class ewar ships: this is just a side bit, but it does offer a very tried-and-true solution to the current problem of capital rr blobs. in fact, make them the new motherships for the guristas/angels/serpentis/blood raider incursions for the **** of it(notsureifserious). a bit of variation in the toolkit would do wonders to help break the dilemma in capital warfare. - smartbombs/heavy bombers: getting a few + range and damage smartbombing ships would offer a lot of in-fleet support counters to fighter bombers, and add the lots of lulz when accidentally instajib every dictor you have. also, the pirates in rancer would cry for joy at these, think of those wide-eyed pirates in rancer!in sum, these are just a few more viable solutions that are not solely dedicated to rendering an entire shipclass down to complete **** again."
"i stopped reading this after you said they needed an hp nerf and buff in consecutive sentences."
"supercarriers definitely needs a nerf sooner or later and the proposed changes seem pretty fair, i'm not so sure on the titans though.edit: i think the old aoe dds can come back, but in a form of a script, smaller radius, longer immobility, and heavier capacitor/fuel cost.edit 2: \"all dreads get an extra utility highslot, and create a module for it akin to hictor superpoint (scripted)\" - i like this idea too, although it means the return of 50-100+ man dread fights will be downright dangerous to supercaps in a bad situation."
"some ideas i have seen that i think would be good without over nerfing the supper carriers is:- remove the remote armor/shield/energy bonuses- have the drone bay only allow fighters and fighter bombers- change the +3 to drone amount to +1- have a +200% bonus to drone control units (so its bonus is +3 to drones deployedthat way they are far less effective to sub-capitals and if they want to use neuts, smart bombs, cloaks and ecm burst, they sacrifice damage."
"this actually isn't a bad plan. they would still retain their role completely while their utility would be stripped. but their dps would eclipse a titan. that's the only small flaw i see. how would we make titans semi relevant without making them overpowered?this would allow a revenant(sansha mothership) for example to do over 20 thousand dps alone. might need to tone fb damage down a bit if you did this to stop ms from becoming the only thing required in a cap fight."
"they would also need to cut dreadnought siege cycle time in half to make them an option again.as far as titans go, i don't like how they can one shot anything with their dd every five minutes when it is non-capital. i will go on a limb and say double or even triple the damage of their dd and double the cycle time of it. yes this cuts down on the amount of capitals it can lay waste to by half, but that also includes sub-capitals. this would give dread and carriers more of a chance to last longer but will still be one shouted by a titan. this change also would make titans kill other super capitals faster, that is if it is triple the damage.it's a tough question but thought i would kick that idea out there. what do you think?"
"also another nerf to super caps is to change their base capacitor recharge time to zero. or something that forces them to have someone pump cap to them to get it full. no more 30+ super carriers lolhotdropping someone and then warping of to cloak up till they have cap to jump out.or better yet, when a non-covert ops cloaking device is fitted or turned on, you can not recharge your capacitor. vovor am i going off the deep end now?"
"consider this information cited. you're welcome back to thread anytime you're ready to move past the :tinfoil: nonsense."
"i'm kinda shocked you don't see the obvious flaw with this plan. it just means titans replace sc as the i win in every situation instead of just certain situation atm. titan dd atm is ridiculously overpowered. irregardless of rof, there is no balance to a 1 shot kill weapon. when you start making the 1 shot kill weapon literally volley through anything just to fix one other op ship, then it's even worse. basically your plan means that 20 titans can insta volley 3 sc rather than 1 instantly in a fight. it also means that titan proliferation will just explode. so instead of alliances fielding 60 ms, what do you do when an alliance fields 60 titans? it's already coming to that point. it's already looking ugly. rof is not going to help that especially with a massive dmg boost.i've always said titan dd should be a 2ndary effect that does massive effects to things like capacitor, heat, and ewar with very minimal area dmg. to date, this idea still holds up so well compared to anything else i've ever seen in terms of balance. there's literally no way to mass spam and abuse it while it still is a natural counter to ms. titans should not be 1 shot dd killers of any sort."
"i thought we were promised walking in station was going to be opt in (yeah right). i want to keep my existing portrait buttmunches!!"
"the people saying af already have a fourth bonus are just really really... really, rediculously dumb. and the fact that they only have three bonusses is so rediculous it's just... like... what the fukk.four bonusses please, tracking, damage, whatever hand it the fukk over.oh, and supported."
"i support! the woman shouldn't be as a wooden log."
"no boobs left behind."
"how about fixing **** that has an impact on gameplay, rather than an impact of peoples fapping to gameplay"
"that's it. i'm sold."
"bump"
"take a look at the last csm summit - they are talking about gallente rails/blasters."
"maxcpt link please, where is this?"
"the problem is the conclusion about the discussion about hybrids and by extension gallente ships:i don't see much hope."
"to put eve in more general terms:\"let's give sir knight frenchie mcgallius a huuuuge sword of +8 and 200kg concrete boots! he can run around in his underpants, to balance his huge sword!\"\"let's give this captain archer mcmatar a crossbow of +7! hm.... he's very slightly weaker than the knight, so we'll balance it by giving him magical lightweight depleted uranium armour sprinkled with fairy dust!\"you don't give the melee guy slow speed"
"sorry guys, but gallente don't need to be buffed.hybrids, damps, **** like that could use a buff.damps are just a ****ty form of ecm though so i have no idea what they're trying to do with it anyway, gallente should get a different ewar thing.you buff hybrids into that shotgun style thing people were talking about and gallente becomes fotm."
"supported. nerf"
"those people saying \"make it cost more\" are just total absolute turds.make the dramial slower (it shouldnt be faster than the fastest interceptor, the claw) and get rid of the drone bay. am i missing something, or shouldnt the daredevil be the one with the drone bay since its gallente and the dram is minmatar? i know theyre mixed races, but hey.also buff the cruor (enough pg to fit a 400 plate would be nice), succubus (dramiel gets the same shield tank). despite what people say the worm is good as is but could use some extra pg/cpu to be able to fit a nos after the rest of the ship is fit well."
"just curious, what goes on in that little mind of yours to get to such conclusion?i'm also curious to know whether that same logic of yours applies to supercarriers - which are very expensive and extremely overpowered when compared on 1:1 basis against all other ships in eve.and what if your opinion on existence of high end faction modules in pvp? clearly all such modules are overpowered and unfair"
"such bomber traps are cool the first couple times they happen. if they became in any way common enough to dissuade people from using jbs to transport their blobs around effortlessly, however, people would just watch local and not jump into a system with multiple known bomber pilots...or just jump small pieces of the blob through at a time.i'm not sure there's any cost big enough to justify being able to instantly transport blobs everywhere. apparently, as costly as it is, it isn't nearly enough of a deterrent because alliances still slap them everywhere so their members can zoom around when and wherever they want."
"90% of the player base run missions and mine veld in highsec for the entire time they spend playing and have no idea what a jump bridge even is, just fyi."
"jesus christ what kind of idiots were attending this meeting?"
"hey, you should run for csm, you don't have a ****ing clue what you are talking about!jump bridges exist in less than ten percent of 0.0 systems, and they require strategic index level 3 and **** tonne of isk. they can be shut down as easily as shooting a tower into reinforced.if you operated around jbs in 0.0 you'd know this!apologies, you are far from the only person in this thread talking out of their rear end. you based your argument on incorrect guesswork rather than vague assumptions that change is good, and this made your post easier to respond to."
"hey, try to think things through before you post, blobs can go wherever the hell they want, because they are blobs. blobs don't need jbs.in fact many fleets avoid using jump bridges while 'blobbed up' because it is such a pain in the ass to refuel the damn things. if gates are too much of a pain in the backside, blobs use titans - which have the distinct advantage of not being limited to systems you've already been in control of for over a month!the people who benefit from jump bridges are your common alliance member trying to make 0.0 liveable, developing the markets and doing his personal logistics around the alliance's home region, or occasionally a small gang trying to outrun another small gang looking for 'good fights'.but my all means, kill jbs, watch 0.0 markets shrivel and die because you just made it an alliance blob level activity to get ships into and out of 0.0. nice job, hero."
"jump bridges would be nicer if you could camp them easier."
"90% of the player base doesn't leave hisec. 90% of the players are completely unaffected by this change and are woefully misinformed of it's consequences."
"one possibility, in the context of making the infrastructure more centralized, is to also make it more resilient (i.e., operational until sovereignty changes). maybe a possibility would be to have cyno fields/bridges and jammers operate in opposition to one another. for example, let's say that both the strength of a cyno field and jamming effect can be set by players, such that the person making the field and the alliance jamming the space are in an arms race to create the strongest (and most expensive) effect.and yet, the complaint is that they are too effective. maybe <10% is too many."
"actually our post-dominion jump bridge network is much less extensive than the one we had pre-dominion. admittedly our circumstances are somewhat different in deklein than they were in delve, but the associated sov costs have deterred us from going too crazy with bridges everywhere like we did when the only expense was the fuel for the poss that the jump bridges were set up at."
"perhaps, but being able to go to every single system via jb isn't really the issue, it's more about the ability to traverse huge distances quickly.how long does it take you to get from one end of your space to the other without jumpbridges?how long does it take with jump bridges?"
"most of the bridges i've seen only allow you to skip 1 or 2 systems, or jump from a short deadend pipe to the main routes."
"couldn't said it better myself.dear csm members, who the hell do you think you are to agree to such a radical change in gameplay with many bad consequences, particularly for basic alliance members, without even consulting the community you represent in a respectable manner? assembly hall is just a place where the community can suggest something, but on the other hand, you somehow think you have the power to skip the procedure and just agree with something this dumb?if you want a solution against mobile blobs, be creative or leave things as they are until you find a solution that doesn't include ruining the game for a \"grunt\"."
"if they remove jump bridges then they should remove titan bridges as well, because both follow under the same logic. hell why not remove jump freighters, and make all logistics be done by industrials/freighters.you might as well, because by only doing jump bridges you are only half-assing it. imo, it should be removing them, or coming up with a real plan that will improve things. you think small alliances have no chance now, imagine their chances now that they can't have any real logistics at all to speak of."
"honestly, what's the difference between one cyno alt and two cyno alts, besides more money for ccp?it's amazing that you idiots don't see that this will benefit the people with the isk for ****ting supercapitals more than any group of plucky individuals looking to establish a modest space fiefdom in 0.0.here's a thought: rebalance moon goo so that tech isn't god-tier. when the price for maintaining jump bridges was increased, the nc jumpbridge map didn't change much. however, atlas had to cut theirs back, because they can't depend on a giant isk printing machine sitting pretty in their backyard. seeing as how the nc jumpbridge map is the only one with lines connecting ****ing everywhere, targeting a change there would be logical."
"or: shift to \"moon interaction\". moon goo as a passive income has been monopolized by alliances. individual players have no control over the price and quantities put on the market now. make some healthy competition by introducing partial (or total) moon interaction. that way even your spies can be useful for something and the access is not limited to political entities, but expanded to individual players.power to the people!!!"
"hm.. wasn't it always a compliant that the csm would be voted into their chairs by the big power blocs of zero-zero?and yet, here we are with this one-voted-jb-nerf-on-the-horizon.. kewl as most will know by now i'm in favour of space that feels big and takes some time to traverse.i'm also no fan of the jumpgates themself as they cause artificial bottlenecks that makes going around low/null so freaking dangerous, which in turn causes the jumpbridges and jumpdrives to be so op.no one would use jds and jbs if jgs wouldn't be the bottleneck they are."
"it's funny to see power block members protest the removal of jump bridges because it would hurt small alliances."
"i happen to believe that jump bridges are really bad for pvp in general, but in particular for small roaming gangs.i remember the days when eve had no jump bridges, and things were much more alive than they are now. now there are faces in local, but no ships anywhere, hardly any travel, sudden blob formations and blob teleportations. it's bad for strategy, bad for the game"
"please sit down and learn something about jumpdrives and jumpbridges.it's funny to see hisec mission runners give their opinion as to why jump bridges should be removed.i hear that warp at zero was bad for roaming gangs, too, maybe we should roll that back as well.seriously if you can't figure out how to camp a well-traveled jumpbridge route you are pretty bad at this game.also if you're complaining about blob teleportations then you should probably go ahead and whine about titan bridges as well."
"but almost all of the csm are power block leadership."
"which is really odd, as i would assume that they would have immediately recognized how this would simply make richer, larger blocs more powerfu...oh wait."
"wrong. i was one of the people suggesting to ccp to implement warp to 0 option. i don't think it's bad for pvp at all.i have examined the mechanics on how jump bridge camping can be done. and i just don't like it. it's not very user friendly, unlike gate camping, which is open to any casual player who wants to pvp. when there's a choice between gate pvp and jump bridge pvp, stargate is a clear winner.i already argue against titan bridges by proposing changes to cyno mechanics and possible addition of mobile cyno jammer."
"i'm outlaw..."
"thats probably the worst idea ever from ccp. its even worse than our sweet structure-grinding-sov-mechanics. and csm has proven theyre completely useless and even harmful. none of the issues that really needs to be fixed are going to be fixed.drakes being the out-of-the-line best choise bc? theyre ok.gallentes being crap? it works as designed. dramiels making all other frigates useless? it can wait.instead they agree to add more boring stuff to nullsec life. good job csm."
"what would actually happen:people build 425mm railguns 24/7 at the new stations for 70% of the usual cost.haul them to refinery outpost in neighbouring system???profit!net result - even less mining / hauling than at present"
"jump bridges have there uses... perhaps a limit of one jump bridge per constellation would provide a balance"
"i belive, that upon executing this change ccp will learn a new meaning for \"unholy rage\". also i hope, that information about the timetable for this change will be given in advance, so i can sell all my stuff on ebay and be done with it.if i wanted to fly around stargates all day i'd stay in highsec. having to waste 3-4 hours just to go and sell my stuff every week is not something i want to pay for, and i belive it is a feeling most of 0.0 citizens share.i couldn't agree more."
"if you took your head out of your ass and looked at csm proposals these are all things that csm is working to fix. blame ccp not csm."
"when someone came up with this idea a couple of weeks ago, i did understood the reason why it should be removed, but then i also thought that an outright removal would be too radical.so i thought that same thing . logistics-wise, nowadays it isn't that hard to supply stuffs from/to empire since you have jf's, and back then when i was more embroiled on nullsec, invasions actually took some preparation.nowadays it's more of a \"head to bridge, bypass everything\" kind of move."
"not ccp suggestion, even if ccp greyscale was fast enough in accepting it."
"it's time to put effort back into 0.0 logistics and power projection. if you are too lazy for the logistics part than i suggest you go back to high sec. if you are too lazy to travel 30 jumps to find a fight then i suggest you not blue everything within 30 jumps. that or go to low sec.people lived in all reaches of 0.0 long before jump bridges. that was also before jump frieghters, blockade runners with covert ops cloaks, black ops with covert bridge which blockade runners could take and worm holes that can connect high sec to 0.0 systems.there is simply far too many 0.0 residents that can't pop jita's tit out of their mouth. far too many that feel that they should be able to zip across the map with little to no effort simple to blob out some small entity who just set up a small pos 50 jumps away.but please, keep the tears flowing that are bases of a possibility that jump bridges might be removed and because of that, your entire hope of survival in 0.0 is crushed. they taste delicious!"
"please explain how changing jump bridges could possibly make power-blocs more powerful relative to small independent space-holding alliances when at current there aren't any small independent space-holding alliances?"
"in other words: if you have a life and don't want to pay rl money for hours of \"click gate -> click warp to 0 -> click jump -> repeat 30 times to get anywhere \" then gtfo, we hardcore basement pvpers are so much better than thou"
"i don't think you understand how broken technetium is.we own something like a tenth of the technetium moons in the game and we're saying \"this **** is way broken\". make us less rich, our enemies can't afford nice ships for us to shoot. moon mining itself is sorta a good mechanic as it is, it gives alliances a resource that is easy to nationalize (a rare thing in a game hinged on individual effort). but technetium was obviously imbalanced when the changes were announced. we have a five... billion... isk daily surplus. muahahahahah muahahahahaha muhahahahahahhahaha."
"don't blue as many people and you won't have to travel 30 jumps to get a fight. is this concept really that difficult?"
"it is also how everyone outside 0.0 does it, but yeah most importantly it means you shouldnt be in center of enormous nap."
"don't blue everything within 30 jumps then"
"removing jumpbridges was discussed as a hypothetical situation. and considering some of the biggest problems currently in 0.0 are:* force projection: being able to move a large fleet quickly over big distances negates any strategical decisions on where to commit your fleet and trivialises distance in eve* protection through jumpbridges: jumpbridges and deathstar poses make travel (over possibly large 0.0 distances) essentially risk free...it is only natural to discuss the mechanics that facilitate these problems - this includes jump bridges.however, you're going too far if you think ccp is currently planning to remove jump bridges. and don't worry, both the csm and ccp are well aware that old school freighter escorts aren't really possible anymore. any changes to 0.0 infrastructure mechanics (for which there are currently no concrete plans) will not happen without consideration for the problems they could create.i think this quote from greyscale sums it up the best: everyone here who is complaining that they don't want to fly 30 jumps to get to pvp and therefore \"need jumpbridges\" are looking at it the wrong way. the problem isn't that you need jump bridges. the problem is that you can't find pvp closer to home. instead of having large naped coalitions controlling vast amounts of space (in part due to force projection and jump networks), why not work towards a 0.0 with many different factions? where the people you pvp against are right next door, and you can safely ignore people who live on the other side of the galaxy? where you have more small scale fights that don't immediately get hotdropped by a few bored supercarrier pilots? it's not going to happen overnight (and with the current mechanics: never), but would it not make for a more entertaining 0.0? in order to explore possible solutions, we need to be able to discuss radical changes on a hypothetical level. and that was exactly what we were doing."
"if csm is here anyway, one question worth asking imo: i see alot of words about stuff that is wrong in 0.0 and everyone knows about (scs, force projection, sov mechanics, etc), but is there actually a roadmap or something similar to fixing it, or is it something they put somewhere on the backlog that one day has to be fixed in the far future."
"people can bubble the gap between bridges. they just don't.if that's their concern then fixing bridges alone won't do the trick because you can relay titans to the same effect. i think the problem here is that it alliance is whining to the devs again that we're punching them in the face every day in fountain and flying home to sleep in deklein."
"there is (as far as we are aware), no concrete roadmap for fixing it. that said, ccp don't seem to plan anything more than 6 months (1 expansion cycle) in advance, and there seemed to be a lot of willingness - almost eagerness - to iterate on the 0.0 gameplay again. so i can't tell you when it will be done, but i got the impression that 0.0 gameplay is has a reasonably high priority on the backlog."
"i stand by my position and further assert that you are oblivious."
"i fully agree - and so did the rest of the csm at the summit and the developers. again: we were not discussing the removal of jump bridges (and this was only hypothetical) as an isolated thing. it was part of a bigger force projection discussion we were having where we also talked about \"jump drive spool up\" and indeed we did talk about titan bridges.nobody at the csm or ccp are advocating the isolated, complete removal of jump bridges. what the minutes show is that ccp is willing to consider significant changes to game mechanics - with the aim of making 0.0 a much more interesting and less static place.the csm that was present in the december summit (and was quite interested in considering these radical changes) did not include any it alliance players. it did include however a goonswarm pilot."
"hello my name is batolemaeus and i approve of a removal of jumpbridges.if capitals are nerfed at the same time. otherwise it'd be just idiotic.."
"i am aware of the council composition. i am also aware that this company has been caught with its own employees holding positions of power within one alliance, altering the ****ing database for the benefit of that alliance, spawning special events after giving forewarning to that alliance, and then scrambling sov mechanics when that alliance got evicted from space it had held for two years.it would not be inconsistent for them to remove jb's just because they're annoyed over the eye of terror mkii.to be clear, i'm not bitter, i'm really more amused. i'm just highly skeptical of ccp's motives."
"if you think that it alliance (still) controls your game, even with ccp's draconic internal affairs department, then i don't think any logic of mine can change your mind :("
"finally ccp is admitting their faults. i wish they grew a pair and said the game didn't need all the supercapitals, too. while carriers are to be restricted in some way.get rid of all this **** and let us have fun."
"now, as for legitimate ideas as to bridges, there are a bunch of possibilities ccp could do.they could limit bridges as they are to in-region links only. this would have the effect of slowing down travel a bit by forcing people to gate between regions.they could limit bridges to one bridge per system, perhaps with a range boost. this would encourage alliances to place bridges such that they get the most \"mileage\" out of each one. it would almost certainly encourage the construction of new stations as the geographic value of space is reassessed. they could make the operation cost of bridges increase faster then linearly with the length of the bridge chain. another interesting mechanic, one which would target the very long chains in the north.they could adjust the cost based on how many bridges an alliance has online. same effect as the previous idea, but probably easier to implement."
"there are three things that are facts:1) the removal of jump bridges will not be the only adjustment ccp will make to balance the current situation in 0.02) ccp won't make any changes unless they can present it as an expansion instead of a patch to start the healing now. it will be at least six months.3) there will be players who can't or won't adapt to the change and will move back to high sec."
"all of your ideas do either nothing or very little to change the situation. removing them completely is not only the easiest but also the best way to help fix the problems."
"balancing a thing on cost alone simply doesn't work. it is only a delaying tactic at best and even then favors the people who have money to spend disproportionately. if some situation is unwanted, it simply needs to be prevented from happening. since the issue is making force projection more difficult and time consuming, it has to be done in a way, that you can't simply buy your way around it. i'm not saying wealth shouldn't matter or enable you to buy some advantage. i'm sure more money will still enable you to use alternative solutions to alleviate the issues you face, but easy, fast and long range projection of your entire military might has to come to an end with the upcoming changes one way or the other."
"as long as npc nullsec exists it's possible to project power pretty much anywhere with relative impunity.consider:when solodrakbansolodrakbanso flattened atlas alliance's house of cards, we didn't have jump bridges."
"wow. i didn't realize solodrakeban did it all by themselves. it is nice to see one alliance take on another alliance without calling for backup from 20+ other alliances on their blue list.i tip my hat to you good sir. now to deal with all those false reports of who was involved and to find that atlas camera guy who apparently faked the live feed showing dozens of alliances vs. just atlas. i wonder how he did it?..."
"way to miss the point entirely.entire 0.0 alliances can move pvp ships and pilots across the universe for remote deployments using npc lowsec. for example, the solodrakbansolodrakbanso deployment against atlas, the test deployment against catch, etc. we had a majority of our pilots in catch within a weekend, and thanks to jump clones, we were able to maintain a presence in deklein."
"removal of jumpbridges is fine, nerfing of jumpportals on titans is also a good idea.this game is meant to be brutal dark and dangerous. if you would rather play something with less risk you can always try another game?the positives that will come of nerfing instant travel are as follows:1. breaking of insentives to form enourmous bluelists2. limiting ability of enourmous gangs of slower ships to be faster than smaller faster ships (long needed buff to roaming)3. encouragement of increasing value to certain regions (closer regions to empire being more desirable - more conflicts between alliances)4. much more meaningful logistics (particularly in maintenance of large regions of space - encouraging alliances to limit themselves to what they need rather than whatever they feel like taking at the jump of a bridge and the tap of the batphone) which in turn will encourage more entites to move into 0.0 space and provide more content.people who are opposed to this are generaly people who benefit a great deal from having such a ridiculous mechanic or people who cant remember the old days before jumpbridges, when it was actually a challenge and fun to be part of an alliance."
"is that not whole chest beating example not an argument that speaks for the removal of bridges in their current form?sounds to me like they are not actually required but are rather a luxury or convenience if you will.but once we have established that is all they are then the decision becomes even easier as they (along with tit bridges) are directly responsible for the prevalence of blob-warfare, bloated nap lists, bloated null entities .. essentially everything that breaks null.- the bad far outweigh the good (ie. good = convenience).this whole thing is just an offshoot of last years discussions about eve space being too small and too cramped .. well no **** sherlock, what do you expect when we have both static and mobile teleportation systems available."
"white tree 4 csm, and were the hek is the upvote key.who would want to travel 30+ jumps for a fight sov will probly never flip again. if you guys want sov to flip more make it a bit easier to attack removing jb wont do that sov mechanics need to change."
"what do people think of placing a cap on the amount of mass worth of ships that can travel through a jb during any one day, or a reactivation delay based on the type / mass of ships that have recently jumped through? that might cause the owners to use them a bit less indiscriminately. also opens up some new griefing tactics (oh look, i jumped my freighter through, and now the network's choked for a few hours).better yet, tweak them so that they're relatively easy to incapacitate and more difficult to defend."
"it does not logically follow that because jump bridges make it easy for alliances to cover vast distances in the span of minutes that they have a causal relationship with large coalitions. there were massive bluelists during the ascn and lv wars, and both of those preceded revelations ii."
"what i love most about this issue is how ccp always wanders why carebears don't want to move from highsec to null, create special bonuses for living there (system upgrades spawning lucrative pve sites) and then makes it a logistical nightmare to get there.being a carebear and part-time industrialist myself i don't give a damn about fights - in fact i enjoy that the closest blob of enemies is far away. i care about being able to sell my product with a profit, rather than having one or two stations ten jumps away with a limited market available, because my alliance will tear itself apart and instead of a few thousands potential customers i'll have three-four hundred at best, given i'm even able to get to them at all without being blown up.now my problem is that eve is becoming less of a game and more of a job you have to do, aspecially in 0.0. you need isk to fuel the pos, replace ships, pay the sov bill etc. and the money-making activities are becoming more and more a boring chore: pi is a clickfest, missions/anomalies are always the same boring stuff (a damn script can do it, and they do), production - you click and it does itself for a week and don't even get me started on mining. and there's more - pos management is horrible, corporation management is even worse (no words can describe my horror when i saw the member roles tab) and now on top of this all they want to make me waste even more time when i want to sell something.maby i sound like crying or something, but that's because my favorite game is turning into a job i have to do for a few hours to get to the fun part..."
"if the argument is \"jump bridges promote large bloc-level coalitions spanning several regions, so we're considering removing them,\" then \"we can deploy halfway across the map without the damn jump bridges\" is an argument which would reduce the removal of jump bridges from a bloc-breaking change to a simple annoyance with no real purpose or goal."
"thank you, dierdra, for taking some time to write an answer to this thread. i know that it was a hypothetical discussion, but if the community haven't reacted the way it did, that hypothetical suggestion would have become something more.if you have plans to change 0.0 warfare, you can not forget that entities, such are alliances and coalitions, are not the only layer of existence in nullsec. you can't just forget that individual players live in that space too... individual players make those alliances and coalitions, they are not a minority of some weird guys that like to do stuff in their own way, they are the basic fibre that makes a nullsec alliance exist. many players in 0.0 like to be self-sufficient: we take care of our own supplies and don't always like the alliance production monopoly in our local space because it makes some items very expensive.the only way to bring more pvp in 0.0 is to make stuff cheaper than it is now. that's why i sometimes make or buy stuff in empire in bulk and sell it in my local region with marginal profit - just as much to cover jf fuel costs and extra 2-3% for the effort. the price of those items are at jita level or just a couple % higher - much like any empire non-trade-hub prices. if you nerf the logistical network so that you can't (relatively) easily transport supplies from empire, you'll only make prices jump to the level that i don't want to pvp any more. relatively low local prices of items in nullsec are like that only because of developed logistics network. nerf that and you'll have yourself an inflation in 0.0 that many simple alliance members can not keep up with. since pvp is the biggest reason why i moved in nullsec in the first place, guess what i will be forced to do to be able to support my play style. and no, no matter what some economist from ccp might think deep inside his capitalistic mind, i will not pay real money to buy plexes so i can afford to pvp at over-inflated nullsec prices. gameplay wise, i will not sit in hulk and mine to be able to make stuff locally - if i could make the stuff locally in the first place because of very limited amount of public manufacturing slots and the absolute inability to anchor my own production pos in alliance held space. if i wanted to mine low-end ore, i would have stayed in highsec. if i wanted to mine high-end ore, i would have moved to wormhole space. my point is, i don't want to mine at all (make a survey and see if this is the general case for the majority of nullsec residents). utopian type of nullsec space where stuff is produced locally does not exist and it never will. it's because of the mentality of nullsec based players, not because of logistical networks."
"the inability to move subcaps quickly across regions would serve to make capships just that much more impossible to stop. it would end up being titan chains instead of jumpbridge chains. the big coalitions suddenly still have the same force projection and the small guys have absolutely no chance of stopping anything. moreover, it would just mean 50 csaa go up before changes and get those titans building.moreover, if you also nerfed cynos to make caps and titan bridges projection more difficult. the requirement to nap everyone doesnt change at all. it only means you sometimes cant be there to help your friends. nap = non-aggression pact remember. nap != actually helping them fight.naping everyone so you dont have anyone to fight nearby is so you can pve safely. if your ignorant idiotic pipedream of 0.0 of having enemies everywhere were to happen. it would obliterate anyone from pveing."
"no. it means that we have to rethink the problem of easy force projection.bridges are a part of this problem. i think nobody is seriously believing that removing jbs will solve all problems.however, (once again) a discussion is needed about the ease of travel and force projection, the reliance of 0.0 from empire and the lack of features for self sustainable 0.0 economies, sov warfare and how it should be about occupation rather than renting from concord and countless other topics that are impacting eve as a whole.gonna disagree with you there.i, too, sell lots of stuff in tribute. i got my spreadsheets too. and my spreadsheets tell me that it is _a lot_ cheaper to import than to produce locally. by a factor of 5-10. it's especially daring with ships which would force me to mine veldspar in 0.0. mine. veldspar.t2 goods would force me to import no matter what since the goo just doesn't grow here.what is needed, as i wrote above, is a complete rethink. part of this is the problem that production in 0.0 is just bad. i can supply more ships by scouting a charon full of stuff (if we ignore jf/rorquals/compression/alloys/bridges) through 0.0 with better isk/h than if i tried to mine and produce it.if there was a way to acquire bulky minerals in 0.0 itself at a competitive level, i'd do it. and i don't think i'm alone there."
"ok, and how about separating industrial jb network from combat one (only industrials would be able to use it)? maybe even allow one exit point of it into lowsec (maybe being the key word)? at the first look, it makes supply easier, stuff cheaper, game becomes more versatile (defending industrial jb network and convoys) and you can experiment with combat jb network to balance power projection without hurting local economy and you get another isk sink (fuel for industrial jb network).just a hypothetical discussion, not an actual suggestion.edit:yes, i'd do it too if i had the mineral supply, but the question is where would you do it? in a limited amount of manufacturing slots in stations that will be queued up as soon as the change hits tq or in a pos that you can't anchor or maintain yourself because of the alliance policy of no personal pos-es (understandable for security reasons)?"
"that is not an isk sink. the money just goes to the ice mining macros.personally, i wouldn't mind radical cutbacks to the ease of transportation both within 0.0 itself and on the routes leading into and out of 0.0, as long as accompanying changes also enable local production at a level at least competitive to a freighter convoy full of ships and t2 mods from empire.that would mean measures to lock down a system properly, ways to refine at pos more easily, being able to acquire minerals at competitive rates and make them into stuff and being able to produce the necessary moon goo without having to rely on goo produced on the other side of the galaxy."
"alliance controlled gateguns."
"here's the problem with that direction: eve sells itself on the idea of grand intergalactic warfare on a massive scale. goonswarm vs bob got eve articles not just on pc gamer or massively.com, but into the new york times and on the bbc. it was something unique - tens of thousands of pilots engaged in massive conflict across an entire virtual universe, one thousand players on a battlefield, coalitions of players tearing down everything that stood before them in a years-long war not just for top dog status on one out of 50 servers, or some 'pro pvp team' accolade, but of the entire game.localised brushfire wars between smaller groups can be fun - hell, for the actual participants they might even be more fun than grinding the servers down with laggy megablobs. but they wouldn't be \"epic\". they wouldn't grab the imagination of non-gamers and burned out wow veterans who look at eve today and talk about how impressive it is to read about the latest events. they wouldn't have that spark to them that says \"this is unlike anything else happening in online gaming\". without that grand scale to hook people's interest, eve doesn't stand out from the crowd anywhere near as much. nobody from an international news organisation is going to come looking for an interview with the leader of an alliance of 100 people who just took their neighbour's system in a 30 vs 40 running battle, even if un-ironic good fights were had."
"you have a point there.hmm... we have a specialized ore transporter (rorqual and compressed ore), but the supply of ore is somewhat smaller than the supply of minerals (one reason being reprocessing another profit and lastly volume of materials). how about a specialized mineral compression ship (or a change to rorqual by introducing mineral compression blueprints)? that could solve the supply part. or just a mineral transport ship that can transport more minerals with a skill level, but can only carry minerals in its cargo bay.for the manufacturing slots problem, personal slots installed in stations that you can dock in player owned nullsec (through an upgrade module that you need to buy/build yourself and install in the station, much like sov upgrade modules) would solve the problem."
"fully supported. ccp, don't make the mistake of thinking that the lemmings screaming in this thread are indicative of the overall player-base's opinion."
"i dont understand why ccp wants to take away my jump bridges,if i have spent hours setting up a chain i should be impossible to catch while traveling around zero security space. if people want to kill me they should be forced to spend hours shooting a tower i can rock up to and defend at any time, or given they reinforce my jumpbridge i can just pull it down / kill it and reanchor another one somewhere else in the system. also i find it completely unfair that ccp would even consider making it harder for my enourmous gangs to outrun and outmanuver smaller faster gangs.i should get what i want, when i want it. because i can.its time to deal with it,get.on.my.level."
"thats all nice, but the realistic situation is that a powerblock of thousands of pilots smash a few hunderd players if they try to do something in abandoned space, simply because the powerblock can do it."
"put a cloaky dictor on a jb, bubble it and kill anything that comes through with recons/bombers. impossible you say?fine. separate industrial from combat jb network. keep the pvp part while actually having an ability to buy something that you'll be fighting in.no, i should get what i want in a decent amount of time because i don't live in eve and actually have a life. when i log in, i want to have fun, not to haul stuff.troll."
"the problem is that procuring tritanium and pyerite (and mexa and iso) is horribly inefficient in 0.0. you need them in such high volumes that you'd have to mine veldspar or import the minerals. both are bad options without resorting to mineral compression via 425mm rails (or whichever method you prefer). have you ever seen a rorqual parked next to a highsec system and being supplied with veldspar from highsec to compress and ship the stuff to 0.0?me neither.to actually tackle the problem of inefficient 0.0 local production, there would need to be a competitive method of acquiring minerals there. superdense veld, mineral harvesting arrays, you name it.this is obviously only tangentially related to jbs, as these are mostly used for force projection. cutting them back will make it harder to move people, as long as capitals are also touched.however, all these things are interconnected. if you cut down on travel opportunities it would be a good time to rethink the state of the 0.0 economy, especially since nerfing bridges devalues deep 0.0 even more into poor man's 0.0, with all the inconveniences of 0.0 without the benefits of easy access to empire. wasn't the original concept of 0.0 that the farther away from empire and the greater the logistical effort, the greater the rewards? this has been inversed, and it's a bad thing imo."
"define fun?supporting convoys or ambushing them doesnt fit that does it?i guess fun is really only blobbing the **** out of people trying to make it in 0.0 without napping everyone within 60 jumps... fools... trying to have fun without your permission."
"a parallel industrial jb network will eliminate material supply problem for 0.0 (including deep one) while at the same time keeping the \"deep\" part in terms of combat fleet movement. combined with personal manufacturing slots in player owned stations (via personal upgrade modules), industry could come back to nullsec and we have separated combat fleets from supply convoys. sounds like a win-win scenario to me."
"i agree! i kinda laughing at people saying logistics going to be a nightmare. honestly? jump freighter? titian bridges? crap alliance were doing ok before jb's. i taken a break from 0.0 for 2 and half years and come back and i like it but i am surprised how so freaking easy to get around. the role of jump freighter etc will give them a more meaning role to take part in. you have to work for it big deal this what eve been like since day one. i just like how people saying 0.0 going to die if you remove jb what a load of bs."
"interesting point.. but you missed the part where everybody else is prevented from being able to join in on the fun; unless they can somehow get into your, or another alliance, or get nap with one of them."
"adding mineral compression to a rorqual is not a good idea. the first thing you might consider; is the loss of refining value, you'll find on ore in pos' and player structures. simply put, training your refining skills, is a waste of time; because your max yield is still only 75%. if you happen to have a station nearby, it's likely you'll be running with a 30% base yield; instead of the--often found in empire--yield of 99.5% with good skills. less 4-5% for standing loss; if you don't have it.the idea seems rather silly, coming from a member of morsus mihi; as you don't even need jb's, with a direct route to highsec. what is it for you? about 3 jumps? in fact, you have a station that will offer you full efficiency; not more than 2 jumps from your sovereign space. so what wouldn't hurt you, is fine? seem's to be the carrying factor in this debate."
"this quote is ludicrous.first off, sovereign nullsec, is not zero security space; it's alliance territory, and therefore, secured at cost. the reason it's called nullsec, is due to the fact that concord does not maintain a presence there. you want true 0.0, go into npc nullsec; where you can safeboat around, without fear of alliance blobs ..mostly."
"i think you just made most of that up. don't feel entitled to anything in your \"alliance territory\" like game-breaking mega jump-bridge networks because \"we pay for it.\". claimed nullsec is still 0.0 just like every other type of nullsec."
"i fully support the suggested changes."
"the whole point is that no one would like to mine veldspar in nullsec and mineral compression would be mainly done in lowsec. the largest part of low-end minerals comes from empire, so the low-end minerals would be transported from empire to 0.0 not the other way around. alternatively, a specialized mineral transport ship could be introduced.nothing is there specially for me (or my alliance which i'm just a simple member of). the discussion is about moving production to local nullsec space while at the same time looking for a solution against huge mobile blobs. separating supply routes from combat fleet routes looks like a reasonable solution. on the other hand, introducing personal manufacturing slots will boost local production and combined with a specialized exclusively industrial jb network and easy supply of large quantities of low-end minerals from empire, the industry and market in deep nullsec could come to life (that's one of the key points of csm meeting minutes anyway). besides, a guy in perid basis or feythabolis will benefit from this too.in one word, i'd like to have reasonable priced ships to defend my home space and i'd like my enemies to have reasonable priced ships so when i go there to attack them, they will undock and fight. nerfing supply routes from empire will not make it happen."
"i don't have any of the advantages from jb's that 0.0 aliances have, just to clarify; my alliance and corporations operates almost entirely out of wormhole space. this means that we cannot claim sovereignity; and don't have access to any benefits, resulting from it. we do have the ability to set up planetary interaction, and pos; however, our logistics are limited to random wormhole spawns, and we do not have the ability to run moon harvesters. personally, i'd like to see the latter change; though, i don't think that is going to happen. if i want to run a moon harvesting pos, i have to do the same as everyone else; either join a nullsec alliance, or risk having the whole operation destroyed in 36 hours or less. that will occur in npc nullsec, just as easily; as it would in unclaimed nullsec, near alliance territory."
"lonetrek is not really highsec. it's some bizzaro distorted highsec where half of the people have to observe arcane concord rules and the other half just have to replace their ships a lot."
"hmmm sounds interesting, i like the idea, would certainly make small corp raids into 0.0 possible instead of haveing 1000 people jumping in from all arround the second a neutral comes close"
"remove the jbs. roaming into hostile space and having a blob be both ahead of you, behind you, and still having the potential to cover all other avenues is just silly.who really cares about hostiles if you can just jb to another constellation and keep ratting there?they discourage organization by allowing the bears to instantly be wherever their fc is, no matter where they happen to be in their space. sounds great in an mmo.i'm sure ccp didn't see jbs turning out this way, much like how f the \"features\" they've implemented in null, low, and high sec have caused eve to be basically dead.keeping eve on life support through a bunch of polished content isn't going to work out in the long term, they're going to eventually end up with a broken game that is nowhere near what it originally was meant to be.if eve keeps going in the same direction it is, all of 0.0 will be essentially controlled by the russians and the nc, with entrances being constantly bubbled and permacamped.making 0.0 a harder place to live, discouraging rediculously massive and widespread coalitions is the only logical solution. might as well send the russians to their own server, all they're really interested in is rmt anyway.i'm sure the chinese could use some rmt pals."
"this might surprise you, but we're actually not a hivemind. nor are we all interested in boosting our own space.just for the record, i can do the necessary logistic to build a supercapital all by myself by jumping compressed minerals directly from jita 4-4 to our csaa systems. in one jump. at nearly no cost. with nigh zero risk.jf ftw.that doesn't mean i wouldn't support nerfing the heck out of it, if the loss of laughably easy logistics benefits the game at a whole. (and if i actually get to produce locally because ccp boosts localized production, i'd be a very happy bear, for it is much less :effort:)same for jumpbridges. it's a display of how broken the game is when i can basically run from one end of the galaxy to the other with nigh zero risk. have you seen our network? it's ridiculous. laughably insane. we have as many jumpbridge connections in core tribute as we have gates."
"maybe it would be a good time to redesign mining system, and introduce tritanium ore that is worth mining? there is no reason why profit should depend on what you mine. it should be where you mine and how much you mine.also, refining should be best in 0.0. even the bestest npc friends can only do so many favors."
"so far nobody has explained in this thread how taking away jump bridges is going to have the effect of destabilizing the nc or generally discouraging blocs from forming. the redswarm federation controlled most of the south for half a year before jump bridges were introduced. bob and the gbc likewise controlled the west long before bridges existed. mind you this was in the time of real doomsdays when we were losing fleets a lot faster then we do today. anyone who believes that taking away bridges will magically cause all the alliance blocs to suddenly turn on each other has checked out from reality.logistics worked fine without bridges when we could lose a hundred battleships in a couple seconds. we'll manage fine without them now."
"about the quote on how static 0.0 is..... how much has changed in a year. many alliances failcascaded and died in a fire and much sov changed hands many times over and over. at the moment we have -a- losing space and regaining it again with much success. how is that not good for 0.0? i mean the influence map paints a much different picture then is being spoken of in the minutes. seriously though a lot has changed in 0.0 and it has been amazing this last year. i don't understand how making jb's less relevant adds more dynamic to an already awesome year."
"it is a witch hunt that is for sure on the part of ccp and some of the csm."
"jumpbridges needs to go, or they need a massive redesign.the way they work now is just plain ******ed. everyone in a big nap fest can use them. and the world would not go under if they went away either.perfect example would be ascn when they where arround. you can say what you want about ascn, but they did have a very well stocked local market. there wasnt much you needed to go to jita to get. and that was before jumpfreighters, jumpbridges etc.yes we had massive freighterruns with 30+ freighters with 100 man protection fleets, scouts in all directions etc. and yes we did get logon trapped etc. sometimes it was a pita, but it`s a price to pay when you wanna live in the back ass of nowhere.just having a look at this map should explain a great deal...nc jump bridge map"
"so your asking the causal player (myself) who only gets like 2 hrs a night 3 times a week to spend that time doing logistics rather then enjoying good fights. how does that make me want to pay 15 dollars a month if all i do is fly around hoping that i can get into a fight. with jb's i can get to enemy territory quick and and have good fights over and over and have fun for my 15. i have a job and go to school. i don't need another waste of my already precious time."
"i`m not asking you to do logistics. and you wouldnt need to either if much of the stuff was made locally, wich is perfectly doable.thats the problem. big blobs are able to project it`s power over to large areas. making it very hard for smaller alliances to get any grip without being blue to a much bigger force or become a renter. a 500man fleet can do their stuff in geminate and 30min later be in cloud ring. it`s quicker to move around empire then go straight thru.with a change there would be no need to nap every brother and sister in the vicinity. and you could actually fight your neighbour and not all their friends/cousins/brothers etc."
"ability to disrupt your enemy logistics operations adds very important and exciting strategic gameplay for any war game.over the years, however, ccp minimized the risk involved with logistic operations. carrier bays, jump freighters, jump bridges, titan bridges, anonymous alt corps in high sec empire - all these things remove danger from logistics.sure, that makes eve more \"civilized\" and more of an industrial tycoon simulator, but it diminishes the war strategies. i want a great war simulator, not industry simulator."
"unless your neighbor naps everyone you didn't and then kills you.you seem to be under the delusion that the absence of bridges changes politics. it doesn't. a single region or ten, for some alliances distance simply doesn't matter, they'll go where the fights are to be found, and they'll nap whoever they like or whoever they need to in order to win depending on their attitude towards naping in general.there are many ways to field multiple armies around the map and jump bridges are only one of them. every login has three character slots and it only takes a month to train a t2 shield drake pilot. that's instantly three potential locations for you to have characters waiting for a fight to occur."
"true, but drakes are just another fotm. and theoretically, yes, you could have 3 drake pilots in 3 different locations. but that will be 3 ****ty/average skilled drake pilots in 3 months.specially when people can move through jumpbridges it`s very easy. it`s a low obstacle.but without bridges the fleet that just travelled 30-60 jumps for a massive defensive/gank operation, would either need to travel 30-60 jumps back. or clonejump back, but be stuck for 24 hours. or just pod jump yourself, but then you would also be far away from the inital operating area if killed."
"or log out and log into a character in that theater. rolling a drake alt is just an example of how a completely shobun newbee can have three blob capable characters in three months. for most of us bitter old vets that's not a necessary step, we can already deploy in multiple theaters because we've got the characters to do it and we've got the money to podjump and the offices around the galaxy to land close by. but that's giving your argument too much consideration. we've proven a foreign legion deployment is possible and practical in the pre-bridges era, and we've done it in the bridges era without using bridges. your whining about the feasibility of it is why we hold space and you don't."
"tzeer i think your missing the obvious point in that i have no intention of fighting people that i have fought alongside. my allies are my allies. your vision for eve is not what a sandbox should be. i don't understand your logic in that this is like doing me a favor or something. there are plenty of targets in my neighborhood. i mean this whole discussion has just boiled down to jb's are making the larger entities to powerful blah blah blah. half the time for fleets (larger) we are using gates and stuff. i mean do you really think a smaller alliances are going to be able to displace anyone in the north (or anywhere) and hold that territory without jb's. i don't think so. pl has had some success in being a pain in the ass, but newer alliances to 0.0 are going to get smashed and bottom line even if this does happen it won't change anything on the sov map for any of the big coalitions. this is just a hindrance on the causal gamer and will make it hard to impossible to commit time to this for finding actual good fights."
"this suggestion is what i like to call window dressing problem solving. i see it all the time irl from industrial safety departments. a problem is identified that everybody would like to see fixed, but the true solutions are too complex, or difficult to implement, so policy makers focus on things that they can change quickly and easily to make it seem like they're doing something.so the problems here are that blob warfare is too prevalent and small alliances have no way of getting a start in 0.0. the identified sub-problem is that it is too easy to project power across long distances, and so jump bridges (and seemingly capital jump drives) are oggled suspiciously.jump bridges and jump drives certainly contribute, but they are not the root causes. blob warfare occurs because stacking dps kills things faster, and allows you to win. that is all. it is not limited to 0.0 by any means. my life in high sec saw war decs against alliances larger then us, where we were simply incapable of fielding a force to oppose them. the difference being once the war dec was over, we were able to undock and use the space as we had before.if you were to eliminate jump based logistics, it would encourage bloc level alliances to enforce control over pipes to high sec, in effect encouraging even larger blocks of space to be controlled and blobbed. in addition, because everybody would need to use all the gates in the region, small gangs would be less likely to slip in unnoticed. so it would encourage alliances to develop defence outposts at their perimeters so the guards could keep eyes on the boarders, and the inner systems could continue with life as usual, secure in the knowledge that nobody could hop right over the outer defenses.the problem of the \"little guys\" not being able to get a start in 0.0 is based in one thing. isk. in order to obtain 0.0 sov space you need to be able to fight off an opponent who has likely been established in 0.0 for some amount of time. for the duration of that time, they were able to mine their moons, generating more income then you ever could during life in empire. so you likely have one or two cap ships, and no ship reimbursement program, while they have been able to build up the means to beat you back. and that's not even considering the costs of sov structures, sov system rentals, etc etc. if, by ingenuity, luck, diplomacy, or sheer force of will, you do manage to claim a system or two, there won't be any r64 or tech moons there. so you're going to be scraping a living off corp taxes from rats and what minerals you can harvest. until a cap fleet wanders by and decides to kill your structures for fun (i've been on both sides of that equation).the presence or absense of jumping via bridges, titans or capital jump drives will not change either of these issues. to fix blobbing the basic mechanics of fleet damage need to be inspected. to enable small alliances to compete for sov requires that the manner by which isk is earned needs to be inspected. these changes are not going to be a quick \"let's remove one transport mechanic\" from the game type fix. these are based on systemic issues and will need systemic solutions.that was a wall of text. yuck."
"or you could read the map upside down and make a good first impression with your neighbors."
"a good wall of text, if i might add.one interesting point you mentioned is separating border from core systems. it'll most likely happen: border area will be blobbed even more and core systems will become even safer than they are now. that's just wrong."
"people who won't want to be involved in firing, will manage taken away for their well-being and calmness beautiful compartments. it can there will be trailing gardens, inhabited compartments, shops and office premises or still something like that.people to which would like some adrenaline, troubles and which aren't afraid of it (after all it is only a game) can with more freedom receive it in any dark both rather dirty corridors and station compartments where criminals, addicts, drug dealers and slave traders hide. probably even characters at which all is simple not tritely smoothly and they don't have money to depart from station.people which very long time live in 0.0 regions, begin to walk easy on dangerous stations of angel cartel in region curse for example. about permanent death, without possibility of cloning - that is a bad idea.let's tell, in a capsule there is a huge transmitter, and the small transmitter is built in a head implant of the capsuleer.huge for thousand light years, and small for the nearest receiver in limits of pair hundreds meters.at station of such receivers - thousands.it is possible to imagine that in game, time too isn't necessary stay on a one place.let's tell, this transmitter in a head implant - not so for a long time, has been invented by one artful doctor.or an alternative variant - not murder. only causing of very strong mutilations and loss of consciousness from traumas or blood loss.arrival to - in a medlab and it is possible, for money.nevertheless this far future with very strong medicine i think. for those who has made violence in safe bays, it is possible to invent prison in which the security guard will lead out you.in it it will be necessary to stay the certain cooldown timer or to break to itself a neck, to appear in a medical bay and quickly to run away from station."
"why? because you only want to grief others without any real risk to yourself?lets introduce permanent death for all in station combat. lets put the suicide back into suicide gank."
"right, because that's exactly what happens when you undock and have the option to purchase dozens of npc ships to defend you and... what's that? that's not how the game works, at all? combat is entirely between its participants unless you catch someone ratting? every aspect of eve is built from the ground up to support pvp? by leaving your hangar you accept the risk that what assets you're using may be destroyed, including your clone itself?who'd a thunk it?meanwhile the angst in this thread is... amusing. what, make sure that new content in a pvp game has pvp in it? the devil you say! (and, naturally, angst over \"risk free\" suicide ganging, as if what this thread really needs is some trolling) that people play pvp games and rage against pvp in those games is odd."
"ya so what man it's all uncharted water here. were leaving are ships for the first time and in a place that is normaly safe in anypart of space. a station. hell i have 1'000's of npc milta whats to say i'm not going to get to use them. but i realy dont think there's going to be pvp on stations at least for a year or more.why becouse thats what dust 514 is for. as right now it is only a consle gameing and that probly means contracts."
"apsidia, people who want to explore and talk to others like to do just that. letting them get killed and lose implants over it is just going to prevent that, especially when there is zero reward to it. lowsec and null at least give financial reasons to risk your safety. chatting and wis doesn't.the game is bigger than pvp, or at least should be. this can make the game a richer, more social experience. trying to replicate the reasons why that is lacking in current eve isn't going to help."
"as long as there are invite-only areas, i'm all for it.regarding \"scooping out your grey matter like pumpkin innards.\", intact implants include tools and supplies used for implanting. so, most you can get out of body should be some kind of cyber-salvage. tho, blood raiders would have interest here :)basic gear should be available from npcs and players. advanced gear and upgrades should be from players only.also, don't forget new stats. we'll need strength, constitution and agility."
"i'd also like to see magic."
"you probably mean \"more magic\", as there is already quite a lot in eve :)"
"ok. universe of eve is like an orange from eight segments.each of these segments - the different sides of game.we now consider only one segment number nine which never was in game and it are going to add.so different that them it is very difficult to compare all segments of this big orange with each other.one segment gives us space exploreations, other segment gives pve, the third - missions, the fourth - pvp, the fifth - trade and isk's, the sixth - manufacture and extraction of ore and minerals, the seventh - unites us in corporation, the eighth - gives to us for what to struggle in this game - territorial claiming, tasty killmails.different players like different segments and sets of segments.the ninth segment gives us the small world in each station and all of us want, that it corresponded to our waitings and preferences.in this subject we also consider idea, properly we chew it and if someone doesn't agree - we do not swear with each other, and we produce idea how to make so that it was pleasant to all of us.while at us only two results of arguing:1. - players who want calmness at stations, should have safe places at station.2. - players who love genre scifi, should have the full sensation that game corresponds to it, and on it at stations should be possible to conduct not lawful activity.3. - fans pvp and a nayward as a whole, simply demand it.4. - without risk in game it is not interesting - the fact.5. - in game there should be a place where it is possible to have a rest and be simply afk.6. - game shouldn't be the native land of pink ponies which fart by rainbows.my idea consists in the following:1. - we are included into station and we see this:2. this - completely safe place as well as was earlier3. - having pushed the button \"to quit a capsule\", we get on station.4. - at station we have card of floors and bays where we see that one of them red, one of them green and blue, and others yellow.blue - absolutely safe bays.in green it is possible to kill, but it will entail very serious consequences, up to loss of a great sum of money + to stay the big timer behind a prison grid. the most smaller punishment here - a security officers which thrusts a bullet in a head to the offender.in yellow locations of murder are possible, but security officers here too reacts.in the red can live and do everything that criminals will want.some corridors between zones and bays can be red, blue, or yellow.if (need_to_be == safe)then stay in blue or greenelse dont cry and do what you wantif (need_to_receive == some_criminal_interactions or items)then go to yellow or red and dont cryelse do what you wantif the station is in hisec, red and yellow zones in it a minimum but should be present.if the station is in 0.5 system and more low, all colors on a card equally.if the station belongs to piracy fraction dark blue bays there aren't present generally, and the small part is colored in green color only. all remaining - yellow and red. all of us want, that it was more interesting and more convenient to play.convenience - speed, simplicity and ease, interest - complexity and difficulty.question only in how us to achieve balance, convenience and interest for all."
"very nice ideas :) not sure how practical for eve, but i like the idea of splattering an amarrians brains against the wall - small suggestion here, in a policed station, the police will open fire on you the second you take out a weapon, unless perhaps you buy expensive weapons such as camo and a high tech rifle, then you have time to pick a target and fire, then seconds after the police kill you, that way you lose the expensive weaponry, so not everyone is going to just jump clone and kill mindlessly, and will actually need a reason to killalso maybe an insurance on implants? that way when they get blasted/burnt/shredded/exploded the player gets something back out of itanother thing, standing could mean something, pirate factions, or any factions or corporations, they would draw weapons and protect the person under attack in low security stations - or assist in splattering there implants"
"there should be definetly height asjustment. it should be dependant on race/bloodline/gender though, within some limits to prevent everyone being midgets even if those are cute."
"and another small bump to the front"
"supported"
"i support!we have terrible monotony in space exploring.p.s.by the way, it is possible to return to idea with ships logs.i have found these logs and they roll till now at me in a hangar, but and hasn't had time to try to use them somehow. then i long didn't play, and when have returned, this idea have already refused."
"i understand all this about supply and demand. i think that the two types of botting toons have opposing effects. macro ratting causes inflation of prices, macro mining causes deflation of prices. it's hard to say what exactly the balance would work out to be if both were decreased at the same time. in any case if it turns out that 90% of all minerals are mined from bots, we would expect mineral prices to rise a bit and increase player mining activities increasing supply to some extent. also ccp has the ability to dial up or down the supply/demand of minerals throughout the game easily. they have in the past \"rebalanced\" the materials for t2 production, and it is not unreasonable to think they could \"rebalance\" the amount of trit and all the others required for a battleship bp if the market needed that. so in effect the claim that the eve economy needs botters to provide the minerals is a false claim. eve needs botters like it needs increased lag."
"i agree that ccp is more focused on rmt for a variety of reasons. they are effectively \"collecting\" through plex from the small fry botter . these numerous small fry guys probably vastly outnumber the rmt guys and are probably producing a more serious effect on the game in aggregate than the rmt guys are doing but with substantially lower benefit to catching them and more work. thus ccp stopping those people is not reasonably achieved by using a system that requires gm intervention. they are probably better off making changes to the game interface, or gameplay system that makes botting for the small guy more difficult, and/or less profitable. i think that my proposal does both of those things without creating undue annoyance for the players (like capta)."
"post 25.i still think that: making the probe skills mandatory for mining will damage a lot of new players, on the other hand if it was possible to find the mining sites with the use of the on board scanner would be easy for the bots to adapt. the there is the pvp problem. if all miners and ratters move to locations that can be found only with probes finding targets become more difficult. any suggestion on how it will be possible to overcome those problems?or you think they will be an acceptable cost?"
"well, you can always have them rendered at their lowest level and applying a generic crispy/frozen mask to the model isn't that intensive or difficult."
"i support this. and further more when incarna proper comes out (or later itteration on it) it would be cool to be able to have these corpses mounted on the walls or in display cases in and around your suite of rooms. then you could have your enemys sign their ignominiouse surrender surrounded by their own stuffed and mounted clones."
"agreed. there are so many uses for these new models, its a shame just to have them as avatars even for now."
"best use of the new character creator so far"
"trying to make the corpses more pretty so that the necrophiliacs can violate them more?"
"well someone has to sit around my dinner table. bonus if they aren't breathing all over the food... or talking."
"toggle option in the menu to show avatar or corpse is absolutely required.but i like."
"support! this would make pod killing much more fun for sure"
"ok i just did a test to see what it was like smuggling drugs and illegal goods to see how the mechanics worked from customslose standingsyou get fined by customsthen you get asked to hand over the drugyes you lose the drugs, no you run or diei have no problem with customs trying to kill you if you run, or having to hand the drugs over, but its being fined before choosing if you are going to run or not, my idea is to change it to thislose standings (this should happen either way since you are smuggling)customs ask for the drugschose yes, fined and lose drugschose no, keep isk, keep drugs, and have to run or get killedalso if choosing no, make the standing loss larger, that way the player could quickly become kill on sight in certain high security space for repeatedly running past customswhat are peoples thoughts on this?"
"i'm not trying to be negative about incarna. it is good for the game and i think it will add to my own game play experience. i will freely admit i thought it was odd that we only had a small picture of our character when i started eve. but its easy to see how ccp could get carried away with it and continue to put other game play issues on hold. people who think ccp can work on everything at the same time should read the csm minutes from june of 2010 and the dev blog that followed that. ccp is clearly doing an awesome job with incarna, but it is taking up huge resources and that is really why they said, for example, fw will have to wait about 18 months before we will see more substantial work on it.this proposal is really just intended to be statement from the players asking ccp to keep their word about when they would get back to spaceships. if you are fine with them not getting back to spaceships after the 18 months and, you want them to *continue* to dedicate huge amounts of resources to incarna, then dont vote for this proposal."
"supported. +3wod, dust, incarnia.... they all make perfect sense on a marketing department spreadsheet.in reality they are draining eve of the innovative creative minds it needs to continue."
"nope sorry they have to focus on world of darkness after incarna."
"of course, i hope they won't forget about the spaceship game... that they developed for about 7 years.developers are free to do what they want. if you're not pleased by the product, then find another one."
"not supported, i hope they continue to work on incanra after release.eve has had just as constant space ship changes and additions over the years as it always had. when i started playing they only had 20 people in the whole office, and they rolled out capital ships. now they got 50 people working on just spaceships, and 50 people working on just incarna. in fact i'm in support of a smaller group since back in day it felt like more got done. less stepping on toes. but either way 50 people making changes is more than 20, even if only 50% of current devs working on eve are working on the space part."
"supported.please let icarna wither and die in it's still-born bugged to crap form, just like every other recent feature outside of the apocrypha patch."
"where are you getting these numbers. the dev blog i read said 70 people on incarna and 22 on in space."
"as it stands, it is not possible for a player who is a member of a corporation to own and operate their own pos without the use of an alt corp. now, while this may not be a problem for some people, those of us in 0.0 space cannot move alt corps down without massive diplomatic difficulties. i would like to be able to operate my own pos without having to circumnavigate the current pos game mechanics."
"i don't know how true it is but i've read several times that ccp has no idea how their own pos (or in game billboard) code works anymore and are terrified of touching it."
"if this is true i then wish to tell ccp to htfu and begin working on it in house, or release the source code to the playerbase and allow us to break our machines finding where/how the code is."
"while i have a couple of reservations about potentially making high security \"smaller\", it certainly would make some things a bit more convenient. that, and i like concord, so seeing yulai become a busy hub appeals to me, aesthetically.supported."
"this is probably the most popular idea i've had since sovereignty 2.0.lol"
"today the number of people in a system would indeed not be a deterrent to re-instantiating the highways and thusly yulai to its former status.however there are good reasons for not reopening the highways: it's one of the things that would make eve smaller, which is something people are complaining about as it is. furthermore, distances (and the associated time to traverse them) are a key factor for eves economy, creating trade opportunities and in general giving more meaning to the concept of regions and the differences among them.finally, with the highways reopened, yulai would become the new jita, but worse."
"that's debatable. even when yulai was the central hub, there were vibrant local markets. not everyone wants to travel to town to buy milk, but big purchases like faction ships are all invariably going to be in one centralized location."
"think jump bridges except controlled by concord."
"real people and corporations paint the cars, yachts, planes, helicopters, motorcycles, anything you like.they paint all how it is pleasant him or how it can be pleasant to other people.in a case with the military technology consisting on arms of the state - she is painted as it is necessary.this process occurs not too difficult. the paint undertakes and is put on a surface.in game the century of mad technologies but why painting of the ships is absent is presented? the paint can burn down in atmosphere, but in a free space to her almost occurs nothing and only explosions from rockets and bullets or collision with asteroids or the ships can damage her.my character though buys the military ships, but nevertheless he the private person and wants, that on a ship muzzle there was a mouth of a shark."
"ohh.. pleasse.. ---.. no... i'd bury a hatchet in my monitor; if i ever saw that on my screen"
"bring back ddor not."
"i dont think negative isk is yet possible. but your idea combined could be combined with this. fullfill the market order even if the wallet does not provide enough. let the char go into negative isk. plus you cant set up other orders when you are in negative isk and all running orders will be cancelled if you where caught not providing enough isk for orders."
"this"
"(frikking alts getting in the way) ce btw...."
"just understand that that makes you by far my inferior in experience.there is a huge middle ground between \"briefly ran a pos once or twice\" and \"run 100+ pos.\" just so you know.people who do serious pos industry (i.e. run the three or more pos necessary to make something like fernite carbide) are a pretty major part of the market and a sizable number of users.and in reality, the money's in processing, not extracting, and there are plenty of open moons.if you want to get in the tower game, you can put 500 million of your hard-earned isk out in space where any passing jackass can shoot it up, just like the rest of us. you don't want to. because it's a tedious, risky pain in the ass.setting up a decent industry tower with minimal defenses is a process that will occupy a pilot's minimal attention for an entire evening, boring him to tears with timers and tedium.to fuel that single moon-mining pos requires a trip by a jump-freighter or two or more trips from a light industrial ship, generally across lowsec-highsec thresholds or in and out of a nearby station. similar effort is required to remove the products.you can accept that you're going to get podded (and lose the fuel/goo) every once in a while or you can stick with jump-ships (requiring at least two accounts and cutting into profitability with fuel costs) and blockade runners (require 7-8 trips to fuel a tower, or 4 to empty a silo.)and sure, for one smallish tower, that's not a big deal.now try running three larges. or five.at present, there are no power blocks significant enough to manipulate the supply. there are plenty of open moons and the agreement in prices between suppliers are due to market forces, not market manipulation. moon goo can be got for little more (and often much less) than it actually costs to extract.t2 prices are guaranteed to rise if you make it possible to sabotage tower operations without ever engaging the tower. people don't run towers because they're easy or because they're fun. they run them because they're profitable. simply that, nothing more.tower profitability already rests on a razor's edge. if it goes down again, a fair number of tower operators will simply pack it in. your independent operators won't begin to make up the loss in supply. put simply, you are wrong.the moon miners don't want to pvp (if they wanted to pvp, they'd be flying the vagabonds, not making them,) so they will pack up and leave, and your vagabonds will cost more. ideas like this one are why lowsec is empty in the first place. please don't keep trying to drive away the folks that are still there."
"you realise that the nc now controls a massive proportion of the technetium in eve right? and that they can and do manipulate a good portion of the supply to make profit..however, i am not here to argue politics because that is boring and repetative. i am here to deliver a concept that will add what i believe to be a new dynamic to eve. it will give smaller groups the ability to mess with much larger opponents and could make them some money in the processexample: there are i believe 3 promethium moons in an aridia system called nalnifan. when i was a newb i dreamt of getting some of that goo. but myself + 5 good friends couldnt muster up the dreads/isk to even attempt to take the towers from the then bob alliance. the tower+ massive defences just sat there without any serious management, sucking in the isk for them. with the method i propose, our small groups could try and get a slice of the isk or disrupt the supply.remember, each time a moon is illegally harvested by somebody, the corp who owns the tower does get a mail and can send out ships to try and catch the attackers. if there is a deathstar then all that would really be required for your 'effort' might be 1 interceptor to point the cloakies as they attempt to scoop the moon fragments... because then the pos defences could lock them and finish them off.i just believe that it would add a new interesting dynamic"
"fair enough, thanks for the inputkind regardsce"
"if moons deplete in value or get capped then theres less to fight over. really pointless!"
"tl;dr: skip ahead to the \"predicted affects\" section.in the current method, systems with security status from .5 to 1.0 are all high sec, and concord always destroys the ship of criminals. in .4 to .1, stargates and stations have guns but everything else is free-for-all, with loss of personal security status being the only deterrent to pvp.i propose that the security change be more gradual. each decimal point down should feel a step more dangerous. perhaps something like this:================high security space================1.0: concord protection remains the same as it currently is. criminals are dealt with swiftly and completely.0.9: concord protection is significantly delayed, like it currently is in 0.7.0.8: concord protection is substantially delayed, like it currently is in 0.5.0.7: concord should be slow to appear. players should be thinking about their own defense at this point, and not relying on concord to always do it for them.0.6: concord should be escapable. not easily, of course, but it should be possible. a ship with enough warp stabilizers, or one that is fast enough, just might get away. i also think asteroid pirate npcs should sometimes fly destroyers out here.0.5: concord ships should be similar to real ships, with even less warp scrambling, so that it is not too difficult to get away. players out here should be getting a taste of what lowsec is like. it would be neat if asteroid pirate npcs could, on rare occasions, fly cruisers here.===============low security space===============0.4: concord ships should patrol the asteroid belts. of course, these ships would be destructible just like pirate ships, but carebears would be a lot more willing to mine out there if they felt protected. concord should employ a mix of battleships and warp scrambling frigates to make it difficult for a lone wolf to pick on the miners.0.3: concord should have light patrols in the asteroid belts.0.2: concord should have scout frigates to patrol asteroid belts. these ships could alert more powerful concord ships to show up in the event of criminal activity.0.1: concord should be like it currently is in lowsec; at the stargates and stations only. the main protection out here is that attackers lose security status.===============================predicted major effects of this change:===============================1. carebears will reveal their true colors. the truly pathetic ones will retreat to top-security systems to mine veldspar/scordite and run level 2 missions. a lot of them would either have to give up access to omber and kernite as well as level 4 missions, or instead learn to deal with and mitigate the risks involved with reaping these rewards. the daring carebears (the ones with teeth) will venture out into lowsec to take advantage of the even greater rewards. with the enhanced concord protection, it will be worthwhile for a shrewd player.2. valuable high sec ores will no longer be a no-brainer for miners. the greater reward will come with greater risk. isogen will go up in value, making omber once again worth mining. also, the upper lowsec ores will no longer be getting ignored, as the safer regions of lowsec don't contain the top-value ores.3. the system security status number will mean something, as opposed to merely a division between high- and low-sec.4. destroyer rats in 0.5-0.6 will be fun for prepared miners, cause extra trouble for and help toughen up newer miners, and just make space a little bit more interesting overall."
"most of the changes would ruin and cause more people to afk out of game. sit in a freighter and move stuff for 8hrs a day before you go and do something like removing them, it is not easy. stop nerfing stuff and instead buff dreads. the game has changed around jb and pos why not catch them up to the times. over the years u nerf nerf nerf or you have changed something that didnt need change and messed stuff up even more. stop ruining this game and start bringing back the fun that this game used to be!"
"they're actually buffing the crap out of everything lol."
"you really should link a source."
"i'm sure csm will make this proposal its number 1 priority."
"do i sense some panic? your style of writing somehow signalises that.. can't you rephrase the whole op and separate your points and bring some evidence, quotes, examples of what you think is wrong?also, why would the csm bring up a \"don't listen to us\" when they talk with ccp? << which is the very point of this subforum you moron.hey look, i'll even support you for the fun of it. reading this kind of stuff in the minutes would give me a chuckle."
"i saw your thumbs up tres and thought you went crazy.read your post though just to be sure and was luckily relieved."
"csm should be disbanded."
"if only there were some kind of freighter that could jump... then the op won't have to worry about the removal of jb's! new ship type maybe?"
"i agree they should make specialized freighters with jump drives."
"the csm is great, they are a powerful froce for good, and i agree with them 100%. what's wrong with keeping an open mind? they would never support just removing jb without changes that make that necessary, and they are even giving ccp **** about incarna.op is just loony"
"somebody is a dumb pirate get rid of freighters what? some folks dont remember when there were no freighters just take them away from the folks that dont want them strip them of the skills letem see how it was grow'em s.balz"
"god you players these days, so spoiled.back in bob we had to do it the hard way and we managed, so will you."
"don't realy see the interest to have them. ccp has enough peronnel reading this forum to see what's going wrong.franckly don't see how they represent me any way."
"so i was discussing eve with my 0.0 pals last night...the topic of discussion moved on to risk free hi-sec isk generation with all parties agreeing that with the availability of limitless level 4 missions the generation of isk high sec is nowhere near challenging enough. some guy had the opinion that hi-sec isk generation should not necessarily be harder, but should at least be more of a challenge that scaled with the size of the operation. the complete removal of level 4 missions was suggested and seemed to be widely accepted by a bunch of guys who live in 0.0 and know nothing about hi-sec isk generation, whether or not this will actually happen though is anyones guess. the general consensus was that the hi-sec isk generation should consist of more strategic and tactical planning than simply oh ill run motsu on thursday."
"why walmatar, what a marvellous suggestion!"
"there is one issue... level3s can make as much if not more in some cases than level4's in the right ship.the whole mission system needs a rethink. like when they made factional warfare missions. the idea was 1.10-12 jumps away2.the mission site spawns in local on the overview for all players when you enter3.faster than normal missions, but in low sec, in enemy space, high chance of pvp.but then.. the 4th step...make them pay less than normal highsec missions. what the hellanswer given at the time was the missions auto-balancer payout thing would fix all. *rolls eyes*"
"part 4 is bogus, you can easily get more than 100m an hour doing lvl4 fw missions per character present. i won't say that's impossible with high sec lvl4's, but it's exceedingly difficult. that said, i agree that the mission system needs a look. all other resources in eve have competition, why not missions? a simple solution is making it so any given agent can only give out a limited number of missions every 15 minutes. i don't support outright removing them however."
"there was this storyline for gallente, which took you to lowsec and killed your standing with caldari or amarr, this removed the last reason to mission in gallente space for a while. i suggested then these could be introduced throughout the races in level 4 only."
"as someone who ran level 4 missions all day long for months, i can tell you that it is impossible to get the numbers you are talking about. using two toons i was able to get maybe 30m an hour if i was lucky and got mostly sansha or blood missions. you receive no special loot for l4 high sec missions, and with ninja salvagers out the wazoo in high sec, you don't make much salvaging either. i used to run l4s in a navy apoc all day long and used an alt to salvage in a cormorant. if i was lucky, i would get an intact armor plate and make a little extra, but not much. at the end of the week, i would take my orca to amarr and sell. a weeks worth of loot made me 400-500 mil. i make that in an hour in wormholes. the loot from level 4s is miniscule, and you can barely pay for accounts with it.also, level 4s are hardly risk free. while you have to be a complete noob to mess up a spawn in level 4s, it is possible for a ninja salvager to scan you out, warp to you, and aggro another group before warping out. the new group aggros you, then the whole room. now you have a dead ship because the frigs still have you warp disrupted and you cant kill them fast enough. never happened to me personally, but i have seen it happen to a few friends of mine. the risk is significantly less than anything else you do to make money, but it is there."
"the fact that you were using a navy apoc says a lot really. it's a good newbie mission boat due to its large capacitor and generous fittings, but its damage output is **** poor for a pve bs. i assure you, 30m an hour is a very low number but 100m is on the extreme high end."
"missions are just too easy and too boring. ccp should put some of their ai improvements in them already. less enemies but tougher enemies, and like upcoming incursions they should use specialized ships and not just punching bags with plenty of hit points."
"100m was possible at one time, but not anymore. there's been a lot of mission nerf over time. whomever claiming 100m/hr nowdays are not counting travel time, cherry picking missions, and not factoring in realistic lp value and tag costs. it basically maxes out at 80m/hr. null sanctums, on the other hand, easily gives 100+m/hr in a 1500dps carrier, while running zero risk, since in some of the backwater alliances you can go on for weeks without seeing a single hostile. you're more likely to get suicide ganked in highsec than even seeing a non-blue while in space in those systems. this coupled with being a faucet of pure isk from big bounties, not relying on selling lp and playing market for portion of total income.fw missions also get 100+m/hr, for almost zero risk. fw lp is far more valuable than regular lp, and missions can be easily chained. it only requires a cloaked sb, thus very little chance of getting popped in lowsec. mission site is visible, but no one ever bothers to invade them, knowing that the sb, which would have burned away from gate, would warp out the moment anyone appears. you're more likely to get suicid ganked at some highsec mission hubs than get your sb killed in lowsec running fw missions. if it does, it's 10 mil loss. you'll make that much from fw missions in a matter of minutes.paradoxically, sanctums and fw missions run the lowest risks while giving highest rewards. sanctums, especially, needs a nerf badly."
"i'm ok for the remove of lvl4 no problem, if they remove combat probes from the game in the same time.seems fair enough for me."
"ccp already nerfed lvl4s profits by like 40%. they did this by nerfing the item drops. this is terrible because if items stayed the same and they dropped isk profits the same amount. there would be a much better effect on economy.your hatred for missions though is highly misplaced. nerfing lvl 4s would just make everyone start running lvl 3s. then the change in income would make isk deflate very very badly. miners and everyone suddenly make even less isk."
"the problem with sanctums, is that u need a carrier to make that 100m an hour, and a carrier costs over a billion isk, a bomber to do fw missions costs 30mill tops"
"i agree. with highsec as risk-free as it is, level 4 missions should not be available in it. i can't make that much mining kernite in a hulk.alternatively, the lower end of high sec could be made more dangerous, thus making level 4 missions somewhat risky. if you like this idea, please go make a post in my thread about making system security status more gradual. =)"
"no new ideas here at all.just a bunch of nerf hisec while maintaining the already high income of nullsec."
"i don't think its reasonable that low sec missions are balanced for battleships. supported."
"bump?"
"and why is this not recieveing any attention? cause people dont use gal ships when other races do better for the majority of roles!everyone in a tengu! (pve at least just wtff o.o)"
"here's a thought why this isn't getting any attention: your proposals are for the most part terrible. pg on the hyp could use a very small boost, but there's absolutely nothing that says that you have to fit a ship a specific way because of its bonuses. i submit towards this, arty abaddons, artyapocs (suicide ganking), shield brutixs, passive sleipnirs.if you want to be innovative, throw in some web drones with your shield tanked hyp. your comparisons to the mael are laughable at best. \"yeah, mael is great for pvp*\"*if you faction the **** out of it to make it fit.go ahead and show a 3 damage mod, mwd, xl booster, cap booster, point and full gun fit that you don't need a fitting mod for. now consider the fact that a 2 damage mod hyp does more than a 3 damage mod mael. now consider the fact that the hyp is already faster than the maelstrom. these ships aren't supposed to be 'easy' to fit, per se, specifically because they can become solopwnmobiles very quickly if you let them get too out of line. (with a non-officer fit hyp, you can get a +4k dps tank, with 1400 dps, and no remote rep involved.)"
"after seeing the adrestia and testing it on sisi, one can see what a real blaster-cruiser should look and work like.the bonuses alone show that at least someone at ccp has a clue what to do to make blasters work:\"special ability: 25% bonus to max velocity and 50% bonus to medium hybrid turret falloff and tracking speed. gallente cruiser skill bonus: 20% bonus to medium hybrid turret damage per level and 20% bonus to warp disruptor and warp scrambler range per level.\"(wondering why that 25% bonus max vel and not add it to base-stats but nvm)in combination with extra pg/cpu to ease up fittings and the extra base-cap to make it work with an mwd without needing that horrible \"5% increase to microwarpdrive capacitor bonus per level\" is just lovely.too bad this is just an at-reward. on the other hand even the serpentis faction blaster ships work half-way decent enough as they tackle the problem in essentially the same way, extra speed + web bonus to counter the targets speed + tracking bonus."
"what's wrong in your opinion is that those fits are not a \"lol\" fit for fun just for testing, the sad thing about what you are saying is that is the only way to make gallente ships work a little bit better.my question is, what's the point?get rid of specific racial bonus on every ship then and fit autos on apoc or lasers in to hyperions or hybrids on vargurs whatever.2 cruise lounchers on my mega have better dps than 6blasters, it's ridiculous but it's fun if only i could fit 6 more i would finish all my missile skils"
"and here's why your post isn't getting attention. it's terrible.the shield brutix/myrm/hyp aren't awful because they perform in a mediocre fashion. they are terrible because they ignore the hull's biggest per level bonus. it's like telling someone to ignore the drone bay on a dominix and fit neutron blasters to make up for it. it's stupid.the hyperion simply is not used, at all in the kind of arena it is supposed to rule because in order to live long enough to be effective it has to fit a buffer tank. that buffer tank adds so much mass to the ship that it cannot maneouver or accelerate to get to its target. if you want a ship to perform a hyperion's role, you'd be using megathron which is still arguably gimped in spite of its tracking bonus because of the inability of blasters to track targets at their preferred optimal. also your figures are bull**** - post eft fit or gtfo.there is a great deal that says you should fit a ship for its bonuses, beacuse those bonuses are what make it more effective. if ships are commonly being fit contrary to those bonuses, it is either for a solid tactical reason, or it's because the bonus sucks so bad that whoever designed it that way must have been high.also web drones are equivalent of heavy drones in dronebay and bandwidth usage. throw a couple of them on the hyp and you get... oh wait... you get a fraction of the effectiveneess of a stasis web module and lose most of your applicable protection against anything smaller than a bs. what a bargain"
"i think maybe people are fitting projectile weapons or lasers to their gallente ships and finding that coupled with the drone bonuses, they do fine now. giving those ships bonuses to good turrets would simply make them overpowered.i gave up trying to fit a thorax to do anything well with blasters (which never could hit the target anyway!), and finally just threw on some autocannons. it may have less dps (not much less, according to eft), but at least i have a full rack of weapons, and i can score hits on targets. plus, the tiny cargohold feels roomier with the smaller projectile ammo. oh, and this thing is now almost on par with a stabber when you count the hefty drones it carries and you don't count how the capacitor drains in about 5 seconds.just use autocannons i say. or fly minmatar and use autocannons. either way, don't use blasters."
"i don't think there's anyone out there who doesn't like seeing large ships explode in game. the problem is, everyone has a ton of these big ships, and they're often only used in large groups.large groups of supercarriers and titans can destroy heavy interdictors, and interdictors with relative ease via doomsdays, smartbombs, energy neutralizers and drones before a fleet can manage to kill any. therefore, i'll bring up an idea that i believe has been hashed around before. give supercarriers a superpoint. i propose replacing remote ecm burst (or not, but ecm burst is really just a tool to get on a bunch of killmails these days) with a kind of superpoint. if you want to kill a bunch of supercaps, you should have to risk a bunch of supercaps. you could even put a superpoint strength of two or three on a titan, and require two or three supercarriers to hold a titan down.to be clear here, interdictor bubbles and heavy interdictor points will still tackle a supercap, if you're dumb with your supercap, you should still die to a subcap fleet. people are going to use massive fleets of supercaps because they exist. nerfing them into oblivion isn't going to solve anything, as people will just get more of them to counter the nerf. the only way to honestly reduce the number of supercaps in game is to make them explode, and if you want them to explode, you have to make them worth risking. this option, should of course be implemented in conjunction with other fixes and changes. it's not a stand-alone cure all."
"supporting my own post."
"if you really want to kill more supercaps, all you have to do is make sure that the ships never disappear from space, even with logged off characters."
"how about let dreads have the superpoints."
"they don't have the ehp to survive long enough to be relevant compared to a super. i would love my revelation to be relevant, but it needs some serious rethinking to actually happen."
"no. nerf supercarrier dps to the point where battleships and cruisers are effective as a counter to lock them down.failing that 'invent' a capital/supercapital counter to them. something that can tank well enough but has little in the way of offensive capability past fleet interdiction.the last thing eve needs is more supercaps. it's laughable as it is trying to creep around a freighter without getting hotdropped."
"i like the idea to make the supercaps stay in game at all times. they're practically floating bases, therefore players should be forced to defend them as such."
"all t3 cruisers have generally limited drone capabilities. proteus seems perfectly in line with that policy.also being able to field more than 5 drones, is very powerful ability and it cannot even be compared with fielding 5 slow ogres. i personally think even ishtar with 5 heavy drones and large drone bay is a bit op in certain situtations, granted it is limited with range for example.no."
"except for the fact that one faction's gimmick is drones. so they have a ship that can't field drones, because that class of ship is not supposed to field drones. so that class of ship therefore sucks for that faction, like approximately 70% of the rest of that faction's lineup. see where i'm going here??"
"the whole \"they cant enter high sec\" deal fails compleatly for one reasion, alts every pirate and his grear grand mother has one and they get all the supplies they need through them"
"so they can get their gimped pve ships easily destroyed? brilliant! i'm taking my officer fitted golem into lo-sec right away!"
"well by now it's just a fact. when low sec missions have mission protection they come to life. when mission protection was taken away they died out.you want to realy fix low sec just add in some old school mission site protection. it's a realy simple game we use to play realy and you get more people to play this game this way too.if you can get pass the gate/station camp and make it to your mission you get to do the mission. if not you have to try again or pay to pass.just take note that the primary low sec mission ships are unprobable? think that happend just by accidet or something?nope it was no accidet. low sec is only profitable with some kind of mission protection. be it ccp provided or in a over costly t3 hull. when it was ccp provided and you did not have to though over a bil isk to try at low sec there were alot more people trying. it's realy just that simple. it's not rocket science.out side of that i just say let the pirats keep what they cryed so hard and so long for and choke on it."
"dumb.dumb.yes, get rid of gate guns and such. have every criminal action in lowsec have a sleeper ai concord spawn show up after say 30 seconds. this allows for frigs to then pvp in lowsec more freely. in addition if i alphad something 30seconds later when the concord spawn finally shows up. i can just jump through gate and evade.in addition this change makes 1 bigger difference. stuff not at stations or gates. suddenly have a little security. right now if i were to be mining in lowsec. there is literally nothing protecting me. it's literally like 0.0. except there are far more hostiles in lowsec looking to kill you then in 0.0. so why mine in lowsec? same for practically every other reason to be in lowsec. furthermore ratting in lowsec is more or less the same difficulty as crap 0.0. so why rat there? my idea is to have essentially newbie officer spawns in 0.1-0.2 systems. these new officers drop medium sized things. so like officer medium neutralizers and officer medium weapons. suddenly ratting in lowsec is awesome."
"here's an idea stop shooting them ! duh might just get ya a few folks sparky"
"i think that the best course of action would be to completly change the pve environment in low-sec. in empire or 0.0 you have the luxury to sit on a mission or anomaly for an hour in an expensive pve ship, because odds of being suddenly killed are slim, either due to concord or intel channels + local. this is not true in low-sec, since as it was already stated everyone can turn against you and it's laughably easy to scan you down.so how about a new set of missions for low security space. imagine you talk to an agent and he says \"you know, i've heard that there is this gurista staging area in old man star and they have this device that does stuff. by accident i happen to have a buy order for it and could provide you with a bookmark. whaddya say?\". and once you're in the mission site all you need to do is blow a station/warehouse/whatever while under npc fire (without having to kill all rats in three rooms), retrieve the device and bring it back. also, the item would be sold in the market rather than handed over in a mission, so if someone blows you up and loots it they can sell it themselves.in other words - make low-sec missions/anomalies a quick in-and-out, with the difficulty being getting past player pirates. this would also include the need for pirates do make calculations - \"this dude is coming in from highsec - maby he's on a mission and i'll profit better if i don't kill him now, but wait till he comes back with the fat loot?\".maby make it so the site will spawn by itself and nearby agents might give its location to multiple players at once, so when you get there you might find two other dudes trying to get it?edit: about the empires not caring about capsuleers. capsuleers are absurdly rich people when seen from outside. look at the pi for example - building a high-tech factory or a field of extractors costs peanuts, while for a non-capsuleer that would be a fortune. you can build an entire production chain on multiple planets, with extractors, factories, etc and then scrap it without a second thought because it's so cheap for us. we own starships the size of small cities and i'm pretty sure even a small corporations wallet could compete with the economy of an out of the way planet, and the biggest alliances could probably outbid an empire if they wanted. we probably pay a lot of money for docking, refueling, etc at stations - it's just that we're so rich we don't even notice them, so they're not included in the game. also remember that our ships have crews who will leave even more money. not to mention the fees for usage of station services and broker fees for market transactions and contracts.all in all i guess we leave quite a lot of money in stations and it's int their owners best interest to welcome us as often as possible. and since the station owners are probably pretty rich people (although not godly-rich as we are) they would have quite a lot to say in their respective governments."
"this is the most reasonable idea in this thread and already somewhat manageable with anomalies(if ccp ever fixes the respawn mechanics). i run them quite often in a standard nano pest w/o active tank. actually with faction spawns in them from time to time they would be quite nice.to the op, the protection you have in low sec is the tank and dps you bring with you, also the ability to use common sense, local, scanner, show info and the deeper understanding at what point a person in your system is a risk or not.this works for everyone that lives in low sec and that consider further penalty's for pirates as a pointless approach to protect people that can't or simple being unwilling to play the game exactly the way the environment around them requires it. this doesn't mean only flying in frigs, unprobable t3s or fitting cov ops claoks on anything, but players to realize that they are in a pvp environment and her play style and fitting should reflect this."
"i like your ideas but i think the biggest problem is that atm people can't really fight back in lo sec and do anything else even remotely profiteable. have you seen"
"i think it would be neat if lowsec were sort of like a sub-high sec, in which there is significant security all around that can protect players who don't wish to pvp but the security wouldn't be complete and pirates could get away with killing without losing their ship.could have non-invincible concord patrols around the belts to attract players to mine in them. .3 and .4 sec systems could have a very active concord presence, while .2 and .1 would not see so much of them. that way, carebears who are tired of boring old highsec would venture out into .4 at first, and the more daring ones would go deeper, to .3 and beyond. that way, the security status numbers would actually feel like they mean something.--on a somewhat related note, i think it would be interesting if concord response was reduced in lower security systems. in a .5 or .6 system, it should take a while for concord to arrive when you get attacked, and they should take a few moments to finish the guy off. maybe it would even be possible to escape. perhaps the higher the security status, the more scramble they use, and the longer its range. that would make it somewhat unsafe to get those \"mid\"-sec ores; plagioclase, omber, pyroxeres, and kernite. the snivelling wusses who want complete safety should be confined to veldspar and scordite."
"where will i buy my stuff?just fukking pull it out of my ass?"
"so i pionted out these facts in another post but got deleted .when i first started playing eve 5 years ago. motherships were awesome very hard to kill but did not have much killing power other than the 20 or so fighters . with certain patches buffs and the like the mothership became nothing more than pos mod like a standard carrier so many cried whined moaned and b**** that ccp came up with the supercarrier very nice very cool . now it seems the crying moaning whinning and b******* has gone on . if you nerf the supercarrier (formaly known as mothership) that would lend it to being killed more easily , unless your alliance can field blobtastic numbers like most of the representatives posting that nerf is needed . so if you are in a smaller alliance get ready to log those toons off and let them expire til the rebuff them as we all do .grow'em s.balz"
"no. the state of inflation in this game is such that 15 bil is not actually that much money to a lot of people any more. you can't balance things by cost."
"i don't think your listed changes would have any impact at all. that said i still support a general nerf to sc's. they have too much tank (aeon/wyvern), too much dps (more than death star pos or gank dread) and too much versatility."
"ouch."
"support ..."
"lol 0/10 for trolling!"
"i'm not sure if i would want to quickly jump in the nerf supercarrier bandwagon but i will admit there are some real issues with them when you consider dread use.the first issue i would be looking at addressing (to reduce proliferation) is the logistics involved in their construction.at the moment current practice is to buy your minerals in empire, move them to a close manufacturer plant and build certain moduals/ammo to compress all that material into a convenient jump freighter size.i've always felt that your ability to recycle items in order to receive substantial minerals was always a huge kick in the guts to the mining profession, but now coupled with the 100% in / 100% out refining efficiency its a hugh disincentive to using your 0.0 miners to get the minerals for sc production.i would like to see all recycling outputs cut to 50% to bring an end to compression game play to ease the logistics of sc production. this i feel should a.) slow sc production and b.) start increasing their cost again.the next issue is to buff dreads again to actually make them a useful tool again in warfare.i would first and foremost like to see their siege timers cut to 5 minutes. other buffs i would consider are possible increases to dps, or possibly making them immune to standard warp disruption (ie hid/dics to hold them).another possible boost (and anti blob nerf) if to give them some kind of cluster/bomb ammo with aoe damage.finally, instead of nerfing fighter bombers / fighters. i would rather see assault frigs or destroyers be given a bonus to their ability to kill those drones. say a damage bonuses and/or drone specific web strength boost.(imagine the pain caused by a squad of af, each able to slow and kill a fighter bomber every 30-60 seconds)"
"thanks, but i wasnt trolling. what prize did they give you for lack of content?"
"i think that supercarriers should be capable of being fit to do a lot of big jobs really well. but anything aside from their primary function should be a bit short of their price tag. that way, they're not the most cost-effective way to do all those things. instead, their advantage is either to be flexible, or just to offer a lot of brute force when that's what you want.i don't know if that's how it is, but that's how i think it should be."
"i like this, it sounds interesting. maybe both options? you can shoot it or hack it - the more durable/larger modules have longer passwords. also, the beacon shouldn't be destructable really, just make it reinforce like a pos module if you shoot it, and ppl can repair it later to make it operational. however, i think most of you are missing one big point - why do hostiles get to use my sov upgrades? if i go to the trouble of putting up local beacons, why does a hostile get the benefit of my info upgrade? local should be for blues - let them see the wh version of it. if they want local they have to drop one of the anchorable modules in each system to get it, in every system they want it in. fair's fair - all the gankers and solo pvpers in these type of threads all complain that 0.0 is too safe and want no local at all. this is a good compromise - the sov holder a) has to pay for local and b) can have local disabled via player mechanics that aren't too arduous or difficult."
"please delete i was trying to post in an existing thread."
"supported. or at least i would support it for the session timer in case of faction missions. there is a reason why people dont play them if they decline. it makes no sense to offer them again and again.cause of the likely cherry picking (not to take courier missions etc) i would also say doing a mission should reduce your timer by 1 or 2 hrs not completely. so you need to do some missions. 30 minutes is like nothing has change. too less of an improvement."
"supported"
"supported."
"any logic behind this?"
"well given that they're completely unrelated pairs of module types - yeah."
"i don't have a problem with that, but normal and covert cynos still share the same icon together with command processors."
"please increase the loki's sensor strength by 1 ladar, if you want to have a cloaking/nullified/combat scanner/skirmish boosting loki that is unprobable you are short by 1 ladar, with the signature radius being 95, and ladar strength 94, this is ridiculous and needs to be fixed, this is costing the player 700 mil in jackal implants the cover 1 ladarccp fix it"
"i'm not sure this is enough; as the loki is in need of serious help.. anything would be a move in a positive direction, however; and i certainly hope it gets some attention. got my vote"
"not supported because:- weak sensors are a minmatar racial feature.- you can have all that without any implants on the loki with a plain t2 fit.- if it bothers you that it is probable while in warp, buy a low-grade jackal set which is around 100mill or heat one of the eccms for a cycle.loki is fine as it is."
"95 sig and 94 sensor is unprobable.target size = sig/sensor. target size must be less than 1.08.bad proposal."
"i'm sure any of you have set up a pos, assembly arrays, or moon harvesting arrays; have felt the frustration of locating your structures in process management. even things as simple as onlining the right corporate hangar; can be a little irritating at first.for the corporate hangar's, and similar structures, when there is a multitude; the task is actually simplified, by mousing over the hangar in space. you'll see it highlighted in your pos structure management window. fine.. that's simple enough really; and we can even name assembly arrays, and research laboratories. i certainly can't argue with that, or complain realy; as it's all fairly nice and tidy, in the end.i was however, experimenting with moon harvesting today on sisi; and felt the tearing of my brain's molecular structure. i had gone to the trouble to anchor multiple moon harvester's, coupling arrays, and even a simple reactor. to my great disdain; i shortly discovered, i couldn't identify one from another.looking back, i realized it may have been simpler, to anchor them, one at a time; and set them up for their individual processes, as i went. this would have been only a temporary solution however; as i would likely want to change those, further down the road. i soon discovered, the only reliable means to identify them; this, was right clicking the harvester in the processes window, and selecting approach. alltogether, a very tedious, and unpleasant approach; for something that should be made much simpler.therefor, i am suggesting to make it simpler; with a two character tag function, available for all structures, save the pos. implementing this, will not only save time and frustration with moon harvesting, and similar arrays; but will allow for much simpler pos management, in other area's as well. perhap's, some of you actually enjoy this; though, i think thats unlikely in any case.p.s. feel free to destroy the rather hazardous looking pos in taisy; any time after 24 hours has elapsed since this topic was posted. after i manage with the first 24 hour cycle; i think i'm done with expending useless effort on a non-profit pos that would be 0400 utc eve time, on the 03 of january, for clarification; and the pos is located at taisy viii - moon 1 (kyonoke pit), just to make sure you get it right. only one planet in taisy named kyonoke pit; so even if i got the number viii wrong, you'll know which one it is. at least i know the limitations, or lack thereof, of the set-up now.. i do have one thing that bothers me about it, however: the coupling arrays do not seem to have a maximum range; nor do the moon harvester's, or anything else with that set-up. polymer reactors, have to be right next to each other; these, i could link, without even knowing which they were. and i'm quite sure i had well over 10km; between some of those linked, before i discovered i could approach them. maybe that's the current resolution on the subject.i'd really like to see this changed; tagging visible in the process menu of course. alphanumeric as well.. so either numbers, or letters; may be entered in any order. (i.e. : cd, hf, n1, etc..)thanks,ct"
"propose bigger block list for contracts. right now, it's only 80. does anyone honestly think there are only 80 scammers in eve? once it's filled, you'll have to scroll through all those scams every time checking contracts. in some categories, they make up majority of the contracts up.unlike standings, contract block list is only seen by you personally, and can be stored client side if need be. no real reason to limit it to 80."
"2 years ago, motherships were only really used to kill jump freighters (yes im lame) now they are everywhere, dreads however are ignored and neglected while fleets are flooded with supercarriers which are op and annoying as hell.the problem with dreads is, in siege they are a sitting duck for 10 mins vulnerable and do less damage against structures (minus a pos) than a supercarrier and when they are out of siege they do ****ty damage.i can understand why alliances would want to have supercarriers over dreads and imo dreads are only really useful in whs now.surely when ccp was designing supercarriers they didnt want them to be versatile and fill the role of dreads too.i propose a supercap nerf and a dread buff, i have thought of ways to make the dread more appealing but honestly i feel these ideas would make them op, for example allowing them to receive remote reps while in siege, although it could create interesting situations in 0.0 it would make them op in whs.i was wondering how the csm felt about dreads and them becoming the new black sheeps in eve?"
"i think the real difference for dreads. everyone and their mother can deploy one. whereas motherships you might drop 10-20 of them in a big drop? that 100,000-200,000 dps from the motherships arent to bat an eye at.. but when you could bring 250 dreads. that's like 1.5 million dps. furthermore if you lose a mothership it hurts. you lose a bunch of dreads who cares because they are insured. at the end of the day using motherships are more risky. add on top of that. if you were to have 250dreads/moms go up against 250 battleships/hacs. those caps are all dead. so people generally bring battleships instead. this is why dreads just arent around anymore. it's better to have your dread pilots in battleships. while it's absurd to suggest putting your mothership pilots into battleships.so the cap battle is decided solely on who wins the subcap battle. so you want to bring the biggest subcap fleet.this is why dreads have disappeared and motherships dominate the field.want to bring dreads back? create a new supercap perhaps tier 3 dread. who sucks at shooting stuff that dreads typically shoot; but absolutely **** the **** out of subcaps. lets the subcaps fight off field. as sending your subcap blob in to kill the supercapdread would be lolbadidea. you then have to do your battles separate. i imagine a supercap dread that had like 3 remote smartbombs whose range is large enough to hit fighterbombers and slightly better dmg then your officer smartbombs. kind of like the remote ecm burst. such a thing would be crap against pos modules because it'd kill your blue drones/fighterbombers. it would be crap against other caps because of the amount of ehp. except when that blob warps in and is all balled up. locked and remote smartbombed to oblivion. problem i could happening though... what stops you from bringing those ships the subcap fleet? how about you have to siege and then you cant lock anything for 30+ seconds. lets the subcap fleet run. moreover you can make it so warpdisrupt bubbles, wrecks, everything get killed by these and the dictors themselves wouldnt last long. in addition the ability to spread out enough to negate the smartbomb ability.tldr: cap battles are decided by the subcaps and not the caps themselves. so having dread pilots in battleships is superior."
"true, you didnt say that..and i didnt say that you did. reread my post, #660 of this thread. what you did insinuate was that ankh lacked common sense because she threw a spoon and that anyone doing such a thing was clearly lacking in common sense. i term this a lapse in judgment and losing ones temper rather than an absence of common sense. by extension your reasoning places anyone who has lost their temper into the category of people who lack common sense. i really shouldnt have to recap this to correct you. it wasnt more than a couple posts back.most people would not say they elect someone to shut the hell up when the going gets rough and it would be in the politicians best interest to back off. constituencies elect a politician based upon the politicians stance. once in office the politician is expected to advocate for the positions (planks) that the people elected them to advocate for. what the constituency does not expect or want is for the politician to shut the hell up.i see a lot from you that runs to everyone knows, numerous sites and highlighted multiple times. you sound like someone who has jumped on a bandwagon without actually seeing any proof. i saw considerably more proof of immaturity from a couple other members of the csm than i did from ankh. heck, i see it in the us congress every freaking day. this is not to say that ankh wasnt an effective csm representative any more than it says the others arent good representatives.lets investigate this alleged spoon throwing incident. how do you know it took place? where did it take place? in a break room between meetings? at lunch? during a meeting with ccp or just the csm? did she throw it at someone or simply throw it down on the table in disgust. what was the spoon made of? metal? plastic? when this incident was first reported on the forums i looked for information on it and found little. since i didnt care to spend too much time looking around for information on it, perhaps i missed something. at the time it seemed like a bs rumor. wouldnt it be funny if it were just a rumor that more and more people started believing until it became one of those things that everyone knows?the only people who know why ankh was kicked off the csm are ankh and select members of the ccp staff. the other members of the csm dont know. i venture to say that most of the ccp staff do not know. interesting fact; even if they did know, they couldnt tell what they know without violating ndas unless release was granted by someone at ccp with the authority to do so.ccp has said they will not comment. ankh has said she contests ccps allegation as to breach of the nda. csm members have said they dont know. ive pointed out, as have a few others, that technically there are a number of csm members who could be accurately accused of breach of the nda. yet in spite of all this complete lack of information (outside of ankh and ccp) you, out of all the people in the world, profess have sufficient information on the matter to render a judgment. you know that she violated the nda. if i wasnt so busy being underwhelmed, i might find time to be impressed.you say we are judged by our actions. ankh did not kick herself off the csm, ccp did that. you assume ccp was just in their action. you assume that ankh did something to violate the nda that others, who have not been kicked from the csm, did not do. it seems you assume a great deal and know very little.-windjammer"
"game play mechanics, as stated, prevent what you are proposing because, it will be too easy. it used to be back in the day that you could just type in co-ordinates for where you wanted to go, and warp there, but this was removed for good reason.however, your idea of stopping mid warp intrigues me. although i wouldnt want this to be easily done to stop it becoming a fail safe 'oh **** i shouldnt of warped to that gate' button. however, doing it with consequences could be awesome!! especialy if we bring in role play aspects.considering how warp drives were explained earlier with the computer locking onto a target and warping you there, creating a bubble around your ship ect. how about you have the option of emergency collapsing that bubble? however, you will suffer reprocussions to this action:warp bubble gone, friction and mass starts taring your ship apart! your shields will be zerod due to the massive impact with real space.armor loose a set amount of hit points depending on ur size and mass (ie shield bc loose all its armor hit points due to size. armor bc has a lot more armor but more mass too! so loose all standard armor and 50-75% of additional buffer tank) [done this cuz in pvp shield ships will regain shields quick where as armor wont, so given escape time and time to catch both will be at 25% tank or something] and of course the massive impact from entering real space without warp bubble will massively impact upon the ships structure! maybe a 50% hit to hull damage and maybe damage some mods.(and what i would totaly love!! is if you emergency exit warp and a plannet is in the way... you impact and get destroyed!!!!)this may seem like very harsh and stupid repercussions, but it will give an interesting dynamic. an emergency stop, to stop you hitting gate camps or if you do a stupid mistake where you might loose your ship. however, it will also make you significantly weakened and an easier target (so you havnt escaped so easily) !does this sound like a balanced idea?please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"what happens when you mix all the greatest social communites into one page?just think about for a second... youtube, twitter, myspace and facebook.. all into one big bowl. there is only one answer for that,kamnex.at"
"this is the stupidest thing i've read in 2011. (not your writeup, but what is being said and suggested)people who think like this really shouldn't be taken seriously. particularly the idiotic suggestions around jump bridges.how about people concentrate on there being an actual reason to hold 0.0 before you make it even more unliveable."
"the only reason the csm supports this is because most of them are from sov holding alliances and the removal of jbs will solidify their hold on null sec. an potential enemy infiltrating thier alliance and getting their jb passwords is the greatest threat to their sov. just imagine a 2000 man fleet suddenly appearing in the deepest part of you sov and shutting down your industry overnight. then other fleets appearing all over your empire setting up sbus all over the place."
"btw, everyone knows everyone else's jb password, it is impossible to keep that **** secret. pos guns are the only thing protecting the jb networks.people who don't know **** about 0.0 really need to stop offering us their considered wisdom. because that is what leads to stupid proposals like removing jump bridges."
"lol to the spy comment,but seriously, it could be an interesting suggestion. thoug it scares me, and i know that my home will go to **** if this happens. and im not sure what will happen to me and my corp. i could loose a lot. however, it will make stuf smaller, and possibly more fun. and actually allow smaller alliances to hold space, less of this giant monstrous coalition stuf, rather, small groups of ppl pvp'in and having fun.also, by removing the massive coalition factor, it could remove the ease of building titans and motherships and make them a real feat again, rather than just another day at the office. (this i know little about tbh, just seeing that from the outside)"
"bump"
"no!"
"no"
"no"
"resounding \"no!\"if implemented, i'll probably make use of whatever game time i have left, then leave eve.i will miss this nice in-depth game. the only mmo i've ever played, i might add.(i've watched other people play other mmo's, and chose eve because of its' quality)"
"short answer: nolong answer: nooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo"
"noalso no to incarna! its internet spaceships not another walk around as a hot chick and constantly jump game..."
"definitely supported!(change font from builtin to any on the system and selecting size would be optimal)eye candy is all good and well, but i'd rather play on a black screen with text if it is what it takes to make the game more readable."
"i dont require your invitation or welcome to post in a thread. i havent been posting here because it isnt necessary to post against something that seems to be doa as is. so, much as id like to continue to poke holes in your statements, ive resisted as an exercise in avoiding wasting time. besides, its way too easy and i find things that are too easy to be boring.moreover, you failed to cite your confirmation of a beyond a shadow of a doubt upcoming nerf. what it amuses you to call tinfoil nonsense was designed to show just how overblown your claims can be and it achieved that goal. you had and have no conclusive information. there was no confirmation of your assertion before and even now none exists. super carrier nerfs remain a question. in all probability the best you might have had was mention from a member of the csm regarding what they intended to ask ccp about.scats link didnt work, at least for me (linking a pdf may be a problem), though his quote from the minutes was accurate. selective, but accurate. in the same spirit i offer the following quote taken from the section of the minutes titled post dominion 0.0 in which discussion of the super carriers was carried out in more detail than scats quote.both the quotes from scat and myself come from the recently released minutes of the december ccp/csm summit. specifically the last third of the three parts those minutes have been released in. i invite readers to read the quotes in their full context to reach their own conclusions. far better than relying upon out of context quotes which only appear to support the highly inaccurate and strongly biased opinions of the op and his minion(s).-windjammer"
"i am sorry that the dev's stating it's a something of great concern to them doesnt translate into the same thing it does for people who have followed the csm and dev conversations for half a decade. as for needing permission, it sure looks like you did :) nice wall of text to shout down a straw man though."
"not supporting this.leave the supercarriers and titans as they are at the moment or take the supercarriers out of the game completely and change titan dd back to aof weapon."
"as a super cap pilot, i have read this thread and come to the conclusion that...slots should stay the sameehp should stay the same (self-destruct is the real problem imo)ewar immunity should remain.i very much like the idea of the bonus to drone controls (+ 3 drones instead of +1) and changing the super carrier skill to +1 drone per level instead of + 3.make peeps choose between dps or survivability.choose to fill your highs with dcu's or choose protection, ie, ecm burst, neuts & smarties."
"*sigh*youre admitting to being a straw man now? actually admitting it. so this whole thread was just a troll. geez. i knew you were full of it, i just didnt think youd admit it. stillpretty good troll. well done.regards,windjammer"
"nope, just admitting that your entire posting history in this thread has been arguing a straw man. not the content, not the suggestions involved, just one thing you twisted to mean what you wanted for 3 pages ^_^ but hey keep on. loving the bumps."
"and my idea that you can't recharge cap while your cloaked?also by doubling the cycle time of the dd means normal capitals and sub capitals will survive twice as long as they do now. the increased damage does not change if a sub-super capital will die faster, they already die from one hit. what it does mean is super caps will die faster. less super caps is a win for everyone. but we are starting to get away from the topic of you thread."
"i like the idea of proto and improved cloaks gaining a -100% cap regen bonus. would go a long way to nerfing the behaviour you just stated and other unintended things like afk cloaking. granted it would have a far lesser effect on subcapitals. it would be crippling to supercaps. a good thing imho.as for the damage increase it would give entities with titans the abily to alpha a supercap with 7 or 8 titans. numerous alliances can field 20-40 of them. this would end in people simply not flying supercarriers and instead flying only titans. not because supercarriers are worthless but because it would be all about whoever could get the most dd's off as fast as possible and nearly nothing else."
"won`t that eventually happen anyway with current titans ed? although scs are easy to get in and are cheaper, ultimately best way to kill people is to alpha them and titans are ultimate alpha vehicles currently. so as numbers get big enough only titans work well and thus any alliance with sense will only use titans for 0.0 wars. they can kill everything instantly, including tackle if there are enough titans on grid."
"i see your point. so if the cycle timer was doubled and the damage was doubled, would that be an improvement a bit?in my opinion, titans should not even be able to lock sub-capitals at all. support should take care of tacklers and key ships like logistics and command ships. reading from battle reports it seems titans dd more sub caps than actual capitals."
"yes, dds are used to kill logistics ships and carriers first to break fleets support. after that they shoot expensive stuff like t3 and tackle. there is no defense besides warping off and giving up the field to enemy."
"there's no change in rof/damage the dd currently does that will fix it. any time you have a 1 shot kill weapon in any game, it's broke. it's broke no matter how you try to affect it with rof and counters b/c the simple answer will always be, just bring more. the titan dd is the only thing broke about titans atm. sc are broke for a variety of reasons."
"gah, maybe doomsdays need to be changed where when they shoot, all they do is burn out all the modules of the ship they shot."
"hi, you sound like another convert, welcome:"
"i just moved to 0.0, am nowhere close to flying a capital in any form, and have never been on the recieving end of a sc blob.having read a lot of interesting discussion in this and other threads, a lot of trolling as well, the more i think about it i think marlona is along the right track, and that through some mechanic (which i don't propose to dictate to ccp) all super capitals should be rendered unable to effect sub-capitals in any form. not with damage, ewar, or logisitics. sub-caps should be able to do their thing to super capitals all day long with 0 fear from the super capital itself. super-capitals are now balanced solely around there effect on capitals, structures, and other super capitals. support fleets would be mandatory, nothing changes to carrier and dread capabilities against sub-caps, and sc pve would die. this would make people mad. i think it would also put the game in a state where cap balance could be achieved by ccp (eventually)."
"not supported.if you guys turn this game into some big chat \"2nd life\" horscrap...im leaving.stay with spaceships and person to person combat....if you want wobbily motions - go have a 2nd life in 2nd life and eve can be ur 3rd life.let ccp fix and work on things that really matter."
"so about those camel toes... oh well, time to get navigator'd. didn't like these forums anyway."
"nobody ever said anything about making eve another second life. incarna is coming whether you like it or not...might as well have the best possible out of incarna. it is illogical to think that simply adding movement for breasts would make the game like second life. it is simply...as stated numerous times before...for the sake of realism and game quality. i also seriously doubt that this feature would take away resources from fixing the game. the devs working on incarna are not working on game fixes and those devs aren't going to be doing anything else but incarna until it releases and possibly for some time after that i am sure."
"not supported.why? if we're going for realism, any self-respecting girls would be wearing bras. thus negating the special \"physics\" needed. i'm sure that super serious pod-pilot alpha-females that kill millions of commoners without the slightest thought would be a little above the average \"jiggly\" women on earth. in reality, the only reason anyone would ever think this is a wanted, much less needed, addition to incarna is purely for sex appeal. if you want to see unrealistic silicone boobs in stations, go watch some sci-fi themed p*rn, or get your woman to dress up like it, or play one of those strange japanese games. not here, not in eve."
"what kind of bra's are the women you know wearing? steel? steel bra's don't sound all that fun...or comfortable.i just went and checked...my wifes boobs still move when she walks even when she has her bra on. imagine that...cloth cannot negate the movement of breasts to keep them completely stationary."
"bra? pft, we are taking nanoage here. cybernetics are everywhere. you could have boobs of any size and shape as long as you are willing to drag a power source along."
"\"what's that power source doing strapped to your back?\"\"what this little thang?...it just keeps my 46 double h boobs from moving while i walk.\"no thanks! if that is what the future is like i would rather go back to the stone age... but again for the sake of not blowing things out of proportion...yes...there is a joke there too...i propose that the boobs not be made any bigger than what they are in the current character creator."
"went on vacation...but hawaii inspired me to want cooler missile graphics more after watching a parrot drop a bomb on a guy next to me in slow motion. i won't go into details on the launch but i must say the explosion graphic was epic.bump."
"bump and *thumbs up* deffinately agree."
"bump"
"i hope nobody is under the delusion that simply removing all jb is a magic bullet.it's a part of a greater problem that would have to be tackled at the same time and goes down to the very basis of 0.0 income, force projection, the ehp grind, the sov system; in short, the entire 0.0 complex including its relations to highsec and lowsec.i'd be very happy if ccp showed an interest in redesigning 0.0 from the ground up with some player input. it has become very stale, and the utter failure of dominion just further cemented bad design choices. and this is where i disagree.the problem of the current and past sov system is one of ehp grind, which forces and encourages high numbers and high dps to lessen the grind an individual has to do.a sov system based not on ehp grind but on actual occupation and usage of a system would definitely make it possible for smaller alliances to use some space.now: history lesson.guess where i pulled that from.( yes. )(it's sad how this devblog sounds like it's written to change the current sov system..)"
"hmm... perhaps whith a black ops boost and some sort of limited-delayed 0.0 local this could see a ressurection of black ops hot drops... i mean if most of the defence will be in choke systems and the main home systems ripe with carebears... this could lead to some interesting developments... well atleast for small time pirates who base out of faction 0.0 spacei dont think removing all jb is the solution... but perhaps making it so you cant deploy a jb in a constilation that has upgraded systems (the ones that get 2 sanctums and havens running all the time) could be an interesting solution..."
"yay more afk cloakers to gank people before a defence fleet can react.i severely dislike all the instant cyno drops all over the place. it's already bad enough with rapid deployment all over the place with titans. fly around in a small roaming gang, get dropped by bridge. we're trying to reduce this problem here, not further augment it.a proper bo boost would resolve around their ewar capabilities and combat usefulness, probably even giving them carrier-alike abilities for longer deployment out in deep space, instead of just even more bridging crap. they suck as combat ships for their survivability and cost; increasing their bridging ability doesn't change that. by the way, if we're going the way of encouraging local production in 0.0, there must be a way to either keep a resource acquisition operation highly mobile or able to properly lock down and secure systems. otherwise the opportunity cost will be too high again, and importing will still be the standard modus operandi. covert operations as a form of area denial are fine, as long as there are countermeasures against the disproportional time investment required to secure industrial operations."
"the entire situation of 0.0 warfare needs to be looked at. to quote a september 2009 devblog: the sentences referencing the evils of the old sovereignty system are equally applicable to its current replacement. there is a lot of damage that has been done by releasing the system and not iterating upon it. iteration is pretty much a dirty word in this community anymore, and is not an acceptable route.if we and ccp are going to fix what's wrong with eve, those fixes needs to be delivered in a whole and playable state from the get-go. under her current task masters, i don't think many eve features will get the go ahead for further iteration once they're running on tranquility.it is indeed worth pointing out that jump bridges are a big part of an existing problem with 0.0's game design. in my view, they need to be removed, as they are a major enabler of the worst wrong in 0.0; the ease of force projection. removing all those bridges is a good, potential, portion of an overarching solution to the game's ailments, but it's definitely no silver bullet."
"if i wanted to hold space i would join an alliance, or be in one. i see your points. but moving by yourself with pod jumping or having multiple characters, is a big difference from moving in a big coordinated fleet/blob. and although your example with 3 chars within 3 months is perfectly within reach of most people, it would be interesting to see how many of thoose in a 200 drake fleet actually had 2 backup drake pilots waiting in another spot for some action.i dont think a smaller entity can displace another small entity up north as long as the coalition is there to back it up. on the other side, i dont think any entity would have a problem to hold sov without jumpbridges. but i think they would have problems controlling large amounts of space if they dont actually use it.what a removal of jumpbridges or redesign of jumpbridges could do is increase the reaction time of reinforcement or coordinated move of bigger fleets.example: you have fleet \"a\" in cloud ring, shooting stuff. you are just about to wrap up and reports come inn that someone is shooting your/your alliance stuff in geminate. with bridges, it`s not a big deal to move your fleet over there to reeinforce the defence or completely outblob the opponent. without bridges you would either have to jump the old way, or use titans and cynochains to get there. or podjump/log on another char that is closer.and i have been up north fighting nc and know that peeps dont jump through normal gates unless they absolutely have to. to be fair, that goes with every alliance.ccp could alter the jumpbridge mechanics. put a cap on how many could jump in amount of time. like mass vs time. they could make the bridges hold less fuel, so you would need to refuel more often. make it so any cap ship with a jumpdrive itself could not use the jump bridge etc.there is a lot of ways to tweak it. personally i would either see the bridges burned to the ground or moved away from the cover of pos`s... and a complete denial of service for any cap ship."
"i think the point is, that if you have less time for 'good fight'; you, and others, will have to make choices between that, and maintaining your industry. with the requirements of additional logistics, for nullsec alliances; forces will be redirected to managing and maintaining routes to highsec. forces will be required to pull back from the front lines, less their sovereignity be brought down by shortages elsewhere; and sovereignity takeover attempts, and defense, will be slowed down by additional logistical requirements.lowsec pirate corps, will again have the means to increase income; by trapping and destroying nullsec vessels transporting valuable materials to highsec markets. they will then be able to increase their operations; and become a greater problem for nullsec alliances."
"well that ultimately boils down to running a coordinated campaign. mittens has recently written a wall of text on the topic of choices. if you give people a clear goal to work towards (train for a maelstrom, or in my example, train three characters for drakes and move one of them to x and one of them to y), they'll do it."
"one of the things that always atracted me to 0.0 big alliances was the fact that home defence would always tell me when a incomming gang was comming... and all i had to do was either dock up or fly to a safe pos switch ships and join the gang... i personally think that a there needs in tandum a afk cloaker nerf whith a bo boost (to thier combat ability) and a 0.0 local delay would be the best thing for 0.0... as it stands one podder can make way too much isk in a day doing sanctums... me i can pull in over 300 million in a day... and over a billion if i scan out some 8/10 or 10/10 complexes... making farming more dangerous is a good thing...the thing to is if you take away force projection via jb( or titans) you limit the home field defence boost... basically forces like the nc (which your a member of) usually win a long term war/fight because they are able to reinforce thier troops at a greater capacity then invading forces... this is usually because of jb... but if you removed jb's from core systems because they are fully upgraded... then re supplying your forces would be much more difficult...futhermore there are already too many positive reasons to live in 0.0 and high sec but not nearly enough to live in low sec... if you boosted 0.0 ability to get low end mins then you would never see a resurection of low sec..."
"gee, thanks for reminding me that the hilarious ease of force projection to hold vast tracts of space and defend it easily is one of the reasons why the nc can repel serious threats all over the place. i would have never thought that making that harder would make this harder.could it be that this is the entire point of why i want force projection to be harder?"
"one thing people really annoy me about the debate over jblogistic going to be a nightmare..... no it wont you have titian and jump freighters. i use too move freighter around in 0.0 with a large team of scouts... to be honest it was scary with billion in the hold but it was work and so what it was part of the game. now what worry's me here is i starting to hear and see this more \"i pay $15 a month i shouldn't work for it\".... bull crap you do. everything in eve requires effort as a corp/team. now jb seems to making so easy i see we heading to the wow effect. easy = more fun? yer lack of risk that's for sure. also you want to join a big fight? well get in a fleet and have titian bridge you there if you really need to help your friends. i been away from 0.0 for 2+ year come back and it really is easy to live in 0.0... little too easy that i go on roams and you hardly catch someone now = boring. look at the nc map it proves that 0.0 is easy. hell you have ihubs to upgrade for mining and ratting. you can drop station everywhere and refine build and sell else where. answer too that escort or jump freighter.."
"yes so make it so any core system constliations cant deploy a jb (ones that are fully upgraded +5 systems) ... that way if there is a cyno jammer you cant bring in more caps and you have to bring in conventional forces via star gates (unless the jammer is down)... right now, being able to bring in more ships while the jammer is up is a clear advantage that should be taken away... i mean one of the problems for me back in the frege days (a time before jb's) was that i would have to fly large amounts stargate to 1. get to my home system. 2. find any fights...having a jb network that can get me to lets say 5-6 jumps from where i am going is still a better option then having to fly 30 plus jumps..."
"i don't know of any jb's that go into npc 0.0, low sec, or high sec. there is no easy mode. ask the logistical pilots in said big alliances. they already give up so much to satisfy my need to fight as well as others. what this is going to essential do is make life and this game a terrible burden on their rl's and that is not what a game should do. i know people that stay in fleets for like 6+ hrs clearing towers or removing threats from our places of operation and yet this game needs to be more time consuming. really????"
"i haven't read all the replies, but most people have focused on jump bridges, but a careful and thoughtful reading of the linked document shows that the range of nerfs could be substantial as in all of the followingjump freightersfreighterstitan bridgesjump bridgesto quote ccp greyscale:in other words, it is possible that all of the 4 items above could be gone from the game. now that is the most extreme outcome, but from reading the document it has a non-zero probability.or not. while rapid deployment might be an issue, having a large group of allies you can call up might be even more valuable. sure it will take them longer to get there, but when they do they'll be there for a very long time.the dynamic in this game is to induce lag in contesting 0.0, we all complain about it, but in the end we all do things to ensure that there will be lag. if ccp tinkers around so that we can get 500 people in a system and fight lag free, we move in with 750 or 1,000. move the limit up to 1,000 and soon we have well over 1,000. its an arms race, if you will.no amount of f-cking around on the edges of the way 0.0 life works will change this dynamic. people living deeper in 0.0 will have a stronger incentive to blue those between their space and empire to help secure their supply lines. being able to call up a blob, even if it arrives later than currently will still be desirable....maybe even more so.serious question, have any of the dipsh!ts who work on this game and part their fat a$$es on the csm ever spent any time at all looking at game theory. do you even know what a nash equilibrium is? blobbing/lag appears to be a very strong one so much so that any attempt to get away from it might be futile."
"or in simple terms. csm can go to ****ing hell.a. cyno spool up... ok a get it. but a frekin 30 second spool up means your cyno ship better be a ****in carrier itself unless you want it dead. cyno on the field means people are gunna want to run or fight. nothing was more awesom than dropping sc's onto the heads of invaders.b. titan bridging has to remain specific to titans. otherwise you might as well make them 10 isk. a titan=dred+rorqual. it can fit a clone vat bay, mindlinks, xl guns, and the *new* dd. basically you say a supercap is a 'i win button' bull****. a titan is an 'i win' button. and even now they are getting swamped and taken down.c. sc's shouldnt be nerfed. they are dying just fine. you nerf them and we're gunna see ****ing 2000 man battles of drake/male blobs... or a crash in the market for minerals. i want my 20bil isk back if your gunna think about touching my wyvern.d. bot miners. get rid of them. simple. ccp throws them to the side and says 'we'll deal with it'. well you better deal with it soon. i used to be able to actually mine ice and make a killing. now we got bot miners in mackinraws that undock in blobs of 20-30 with an orca+links in a safe spot and they just sit there and **** up the market.tl;drcsm pull your head out of your ass and get to know your players.who the **** even let 7 year olds on the csm?bring back ccp claw!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!"
"wow you're dumb."
"thank you.my little way of venting rage :di personally believe it all can be linked to bot miners."
"what's the point of fighting to win territory if you can't fortify it and build resources available to only those that control it? jump bridges are player built stargates private owned and maintainedi hear the reasons that some people don't like them. but i don't hear anything prosper to replace them with alternativewarfare isnt just about a squirmish that lasts a few hours. it's about about amassing industrial might logistics politics of geography and many other things that have been reflected pretty well in the gamehow you fly a ship or the experience of a fight is only one part of the game and it doesn't make much sense to me to try to improve it at the expense of other types of pvp that take months to develop and might be more like pvp in sid meyers civilization"
"i guess you haven't been playing eve long enough. let me explain i use to do logistic in 0.0 as well and all i had was escorts in a normal freighter. we plan a day to move it like a fleet op. i don't see a real reason why this is a nightmare on logistics when you have 1 titian to bridge to low sec 2 jump freighter to jump to low sec... you still can jump passed the gate camps so i really don't understand how it can be a nightmare.... i mean if a corporation is unable to deal with logistic in 0.0 then you should not live in 0.0 if you nor smart enough to plan ahead. jb's are a easy ride and titans can be used for fleets. their no real argument because people just love the fact their is low risk traveling in 0.0. i hate large fleets but i love roams and too be honest roaming sucks balls because of jb's. unless the region is a war zone like fountain. i hear people say we need to get to a fight quick.... again titans i mean if the alliance going to send a fleet to help an ally use a freaking titian. we have plenty going around in eve."
"im going to say something very true, but something most of you will refuse to believe:these changes dont scare you because they will limit your play time or limit your pvp instances, these changes scare you because you will lose engagements more.these proposed changes will actually encourage instances of pvp far more than are encouraged atm, both attackers and defenders of \"convoys\" will benefit from the pvp instances provided by these changes. the loudest voices against this come from it/nc and from my experiance, these are alliances which believe in not scouting their logistics chains and not engaging without completely overwhelming odds. changing logistics back to the days were (as was intended) people would have to work in groups to move things, would encourage players to actually play this game. and that scares a lot of you. because you arnt used to playing and in turn losing. you are so used to either being completely safe in your journeys or being able to call a 1k man gang from 60 jumps away to join you in massacring a 100man gang in a matter of mins.its time that people realised that logistics are a part of this game, they arnt a boring part either. besides how would you know... most of you didnt live through the old days."
"^^highsec carebearthat makes it so that there will be more engagements. screw logistics. as stated. if you cant handle logistics. gtfo of null. its the capital nerfs that are going to effect people. we will see more stratigic capital positioning. people wont leroy it in if it takes 10 seconds to cyno out. usually if u see someone appear on your overview you can cyno out.... if it takes 10 seconds your gunna be pointed before you can get to warp.i think ill hang around this thread and watch it"
"if the goal is to try to chip away at mega nap etc instead of eliminating jump bridge i'd start first with the standings functionthis is a game and of course you tweak the rules and dynamics to create game play. not everything needs to make exact senseif you only allowed a corporation to set two other corporations above neutral and maybe only two red. you'd cause all sorts of chaos for larger groups. change jump bridges to only work for people actually blue to the owning corporationrestrict corp membership to 250 members. restrict alliances to three corpsyou wouldn't restrict players from making agreements yet you'd deny them the in game tools making it so easyit would leed to huge numbers of friendly fire episodes. noses bent out of shape when a corp didn't get on smothers limited friend list etcyou could still help each other in battle sorting by corp name etc. but the bigger the blob and the grater you out numbered the others the more times you'd hit yourownlimitting jumpbridge use to the limited number of blues a corp had eliminates pilots access to as vast sweepsjust a start there of a better way of reducing the negative aspects greatly while keeping the interesting aspects of the politics and logistics wrapped up in them"
"since my post wasnt a troll and you made a good point. then perhaps the opposite? nerf high-sec slots by the 30%, lowsec by 15% and leave 0.0 the way it is. leaving pos the same as ever. this would make highsec pos manufacturing competitive and perhaps there will be big wars waged over highsec moons."
"if force projection is the issue that needs solving but in doing so we hit basic logistics (gotta have that toilet paper in time!) then a 'solution' like that proposed by the mm guy (sorry can't remember and too lazy) is near perfect:restrict bridge networks to industrial ships (haulers, transports, ore, freighters(?)).we can go even further and add a mineral compression module for pos's or outposts plus allow transports and even jf's to haul compressed materials.military projection is already being handled quite handily by titans, although the range with which they can do it is questionable.limiting range (ex. swap bridge range with bo) or adding some sort of delay to the cyno mechanics could both help alleviate the force projection part.it would negatively impact ratters that habitually rat a bazillion jumps from their base of operation but not a lot of sympathy for creatures of luxury like that from me."
"or you could light up multiple cynos. objective division = blob divison."
"this topic and csm repport over 8 pages of blah blah about jump bridges, i read them all and this question comes up in mi mind right now:is the removal of jump bridges changing anything about risk vs reward making carebears or new players and old 0.0 digs come in to low/null? - can't see how after all these posts.is there any comment from ccp crowd that makes us think that changes will be made in this or that direction and talking about nerfs/boosts blah blah blah: noi can't see how how these sumits are an answer to all players expectations, i see them more like one way to keep people busy in the forum with speculations while they are doing the oposite.did you read something from them sayin \"well our position about this issue or opinion is blah blah blah\", no you can't, just dipplomatic words to make more noise with forum threads"
"anyone who thinks (hopes?) ccp will remove jump bridges and do nothing else to balance other issues that deal with power blocks, logistics and sov is a fool.what needs to happen now is some creative thinking by the player base, csm and ultimately ccp.some issues that players have about it is minerals. we all would love to be able to be self sufficient deep into 0.0 but the obvious facts are some regions are laced with limitless money opportunities while others are absolute utter ****. those crap regions have options though. they can be upgraded in a variety of ways. military upgrades so you can run sanctums 23/7 is not your only option.the industrial upgrade provides a way for you to get the minerals you need to survive out there. there is also wormhole upgrades to open up ways to possibly get quickly to empire or other parts of the university to get your pvp rocks off. some upgrade to do mini-professions but i have no clue what they are talking about really.now before you go raging about how you can make a lot more money running sanctums instead of mining consider the fact that those minerals will be a lot more valuable if they don't have to compete with jita prices way out in the far reaches of 0.0. now if the tables or minerals available is not up to what it needs to be then ccp can make adjustments. the bottom line is you don't have to suck jita's tit to get the minerals you need to survive.of course all this fun mining will draw attention and brace yourselves. you might actually need some protection doing it. don't let some lone afk ***** ass cloaker get the best of you and shut down your whole mining operation. maybe this means a boost for durability for mining ships? more things to consider. also don't forget it may result is some bad guys coming to shut the operation down and viola, you got pvp on your hands and you didn't have to fly those pesky 30 jumps everyone was complaining about to get those good fights.static moon goo needs to be done away with too. how is up for debate as well. of course i expect every entity that is currently lapping up the moon goo to rage completely at this idea. after all they fought long and hard to get it. it's not like it was just tossed on their lap in their already fortified power block. right? anyways, in order to pull off removing static moon goo it most likely would required a pos overhaul. i'm sure no one would miss the current nightmare we have today.other things would deal with super caps and capitals in general. lowering their jump range? cyno spool up timers? remove titan jump bridge as well? all of these things need to be considered.let's not forget about how sov works. i believe alliances should be allowed to have those great friends if they want, but where is the balance in that? i believe it should not be possible to get a system sov level to level 5 unless all adjacent systems are under your alliances sov. blue or not, alliance borders should be vulnerable and players should patrol and such to keep it secure. no more afk secure stuff. again, my opinion of one of the things that can be done.all in all there is a dozen thing that can be adjusted to make 0.0 a lot more exciting than the mess it is right now. so now is the time to start thinking of reasonable changes that would help."
"dear ccp and csm:the law of unintended consequences states that if you remove jumpbridgesthen people will just use titan bridges. and if you remove titan bridges, titans become mere overpriced dreadnaughtsbut of course, perhaps you want things to be that way.tl;dr forcing people to change their behavior through game mechanics hasn't really worked well in the past, and won't work now. people are drawn to the easiest solution to a problem.though, i admit, a reduction in jumpbridge range would be an interesting idea.as an aside to dear greyscale, i have lived in and out of 0.0 the last couple years and i have yet to see a dime of moongoo money. why? because all moons worth having are currently under the hand of large alliances' leadership groups. regular players never see any money from moons because everyone knows where to find the good stuff, and the group with more firepower almost inevitably ends up controlling the moon."
"which is why removing the static part of 'static moon goo' needs to happen along with other things like removing jump bridges. and stop with the bull**** over priced dreadnought line. even if they removed the jump bridge ability from titans or changed it so it was forced jumped at the end of its bridge to the destination, it is still very powerful."
"titans are not overpriced. they are in every single way better than dreads, not just a straight upgrade but an incredibly superior one. limiting their bridging ability won't nerf them in any meaningful capacity."
"do it! you had the balls to nuke learning skills (finally, after 3 years!) nuke the jump bridges. all of them. after all, we have jump freighters for a reason. and i am not sure about titans."
"this. without jump bridges, 0.0 would become even more carebear land. no one would travel anywhere, so null space would be even safer just because of the fact that it is huge and mostly empty.you like those shiny faction modules and ships? i'm sorry, i'm not going to run gates to bring them back to jita to sell them. you want that dread guristas module, you come out to null sec to get it.i play this game to have fun, not to jump gates all day. that's not fun."
"you are either really stupid or... wait nvm."
"say whatever you want. removing jump bridges will only make the space i fly safer. which sucks for me, because i play eve for pvp, not ratting. some small alliance isn't going to be able to move in near the current alliances with or without bridges. they'd still get stomped on - if for no other reason than there wasn't much else to shoot."
"when i first heard that the csm was discussing this i thought it was a horrible idea and that they are idiots for even bringing it up. now that i have thought it over for a few days i think it might not necessarily be a bad thing so long as the correct provisions are set in place. i have never really understood jump bridges anyway. they are basically player made stargates but don't look or act like a stargate...just function as one. they don't really make much sense once i got to thinking about it. logistically they are a necessity at the moment. they provide a \"safer\" and shorter means of transport for those in deep nullsec to get to empire in a reasonable amount of time. i can't imagine having to go back to the old method...but if something else is put in place to make the transition easier then so be it.an idea...the sansha have the ability to create artificial wormholes and travel great distances with them...why can't we steal that tech and retrofit it to be used by the pod pilots? i don't believe something as powerful as this should be allowed to be used on any ship...but perhaps by a station module? or maybe a special kind of gate that has to be anchored around a planet like a station?"
"cynos?"
"my understanding was that the sansha wormholes cover a much greater distance and stay open almost indefinately until they are destroyed. an extremely expensive and destroyable wormhole generator would be cool. i know jb's can be destroyed but they are tied to a pos typically and are easily defended. not to mention too easy to install in a system. a station that can make a wormhole capable of jumping 10 systems would be extremely expensive to build...take a long time to build and be destroyed easier. they wouldnt be in every system like the current jb system...there would be maybe 3 per region and just like the current jb system can only go to a specific point on the other end. this would require two of these to be built to make the connection and both would have to be protected to keep enemies from blowing em up. make another limitation of only allowing 1 within a 5 system range of each other that way you cant have them all over the freaking place."
"could actually be a very interesting thing to explore.replacing current bridges with bi-directional wormholes could not only alleviate all the issues that a jb removal might cause but introduce some new griefing aspects.two types would be required; - one short lived but mass restricted worm for the impromptu logistics run. enough for a few freighters (or mass equivalent gang) or so.- one longer lived mass unlimited worm for mass movements, but chaining them everywhere could potentially open up the heartland to enemies (bi-directional remember ).- both types are tethered to cyno field at end point.if the generation of them is to be tied to a structure i'd suggest using outposts as it limits availability and encourages erecting stations if only to ease access to the ass-end of ones turf."
"remove jb? really, csm? you all suck if you unanimously agreed on that."
"i am old enough to remember 0.0 before jump bridges, and i can assure you that it was very lively. there was lots of traffic - more than there is now. even tho there was less people per system, there was a lot of small scale activityif anything, 0.0 has become more carebear now that it has ever been.jump bridges, super safe logistics - these things are there to make carebearing easy. that was the whole purpose behind the original idea - make 0.0 safe.removing jump bridges would be a move toward hardcore pvp, away from carebearism - by definition. of course, i can understand that there are a lot of 0.0 residents who got fat slow and lazy and would cry if they had to return to tougher life. well, sometimes a little exercise is good for you. you'll be glad for it in the long run"
"yes finally fully support the removal of jump bridge networks. pos cyno beacons in an upgraded systems can stay."
"you sir nailed it right on the money. people got lazy."
"removing jump bridges will prevent smaller corps from holding territory.it therefore benefits larger corps/alliances with more mature infrastructure/logistical capabilities.perhaps a limitation of the capability of jump bridges would solve any problems they create, rather than just removing them."
"removing jump bridges would actually just exacerbate the stagnant state of much of sovereign 0.0.here's my take on what would actually happen if ccp removed jump bridges:1) the sovereign nulsec economies would go ****-up. these economies depend on both imported minerals, but also tech 2 blueprint copies (for those of us without bpos), or the datacores required to invent t2 blueprints, those datacores only being seeded (through research agents) in npc space.2) the price of minerals in sovereign nulsec would skyrocket. increased difficulty importing high-compression goods would vastly restrict the mineral supply, unless a major redistribution of resource potential was undertaken as well.3) the price of ships, ammunition and fittings in sovereign nulsec would skyrocket. expect to see prices 50-100% higher than non-hub empire as standard on most items, thanks to #2. despite this price increase, the profit:effort ratio of production in sovereign nulsec would likely decrease, discouraging more people from entering the marketplace.4) small-scale pvp would be reduced. due to increased costs, pilots will have to spend more time earning isk than looking for fights. (time:fun ratio takes a beating here). pilots in their home regions would also no longer be able to use jump bridges to reach an advantageous point (skipping part of a pipe to get ahead of a gang), making it much easier for fights to be avoided, simply have ships that align faster.5) large-scale pvp would shrivel. between the increased ship costs and the logistical difficulty of shifting large numbers of pilots, only brushfires on the borders of alliance space would be fought, not large-scale invasions. no more having two massive fleets crash into each other, disengage and then wheel about to clash in another part of a region an hour later. fewer blockbuster, region-defining battles.6) power blocks will become more entrenched, not less. the increased cost of conflict will only encourage alliances to be on good behaviour with their immediate neighbours, to protect their (now even more important) isk-making apparatus. furthermore, and more relevant, is that the current sovereignty mechanics require massive fleets. hindering the mobility of said fleets would make it near impossible to flip sovereignty in a system, unless your enemy alliance didn't log in for a week or two. 7) many of the people who reside in sovereign nulsec will lose their passion for the game. for these people, the joy of the game isn't in the awful game mechanics, or the sub-par performance of the client, or grinding away enough missions to get a shiny implant from an lp store. for these people, the fun of the game is conflict on a massive scale. the ability to craft a narrative through player actions, and to see that narrative play out through hundreds or thousands of actors. having a shrewd political decision switch the side of hundreds of pilots, or having a titan-bridge welp leave an entire fleet hideously out of position. for tens of thousands of eve players, that is the game. massive conflict. without the ability to project power on a grandiose scale, you end up with a handful of small, petty wars with no grand goals, no grand scale, and most importantly, with no grand story.finally, eve is already a very time consuming game. the current state of nulsec logistics, while not perfect, allows the people who enjoy logistics to do what they love, while also allowing the people who don't want to throw away their spare time dragging items around in a computer world to get on with their part of the game.it seems, from reading this thread, that most of the people supporting the potential removal of jump bridges have little, if any, experience doing large-scale nulsec logistics."
"lazy? this is a video game, it is supposed to be fun, not mind-numbing work (which is what jumping 20-30 jumps really is). i prefer to be paid to do mind-numbing work and would rather not have to pay to do it."
"its funny that the nc complain about this. i mean, their jumpbridge network is only 9 regions small."
"hey look, a thread with a bunch of people that don't know what they're talking about.start shooting blues."
"i'd support crippling bridges so only a fixed amount of traffic can use them over a given period of time. this opens up all sorts of possibilities:limit mass throughput per hourlimit jumps per hourrestrict to particular classes of shipadd spinup/cooldown timesrandom failures, with increasing frequency and severity relative to the number of jumps in the last hour......including misdirection to neighbouring solar systems......constellations......regions......or even wormholes, if you're really unluckymake them much easier to incapacitate, so small gangs can disable themmake them cheaper, and allow parallel routes, if the owners really want to build a lot of infrastructure targetsthe only factor in balancing their use at present is a fuel cost, and balancing things by cost alone has never worked out very well."
"i've been in a number of different alliances: most have been at odds with the nc. i am definitely not a spokesperson for the nc. honestly, i think the nc is rather bloated. however, if you want to fix that, enemies have to be able to strike deep inside the nc. you aren't going to convince the nc to turn on each other by getting rid of their ability to project force. the nc has way too many carebears. pvp is only done to protect the space the nc has. the nc would absolutely love no bridges as they would see an enemy fleet coming for the hour or more it took for it to actually get somewhere (don't forget, spies everywhere) and be sitting there waiting for them (much like they already do). the bridges are the only way to create an element of surprise (in that once the attacking fleet is formed it can relatively quickly move to attack anywhere)."
"in theory the change (removed jump bridges, nerf to all the jump capable ships, maybe even a nerf to freighters) should \"encourage\" 0.0 alliance not only to break up but to create an industrial wing in 0.0 so that they could build all the needed stuff there.the \"dream\" is to see real players mining in 0.0 to support the industrial activities of the alliance instead of bringing compressed minerals from high sec, players building in 0.0 the stuff they need and so on. naturally some \"small\" detail is missing, for example how people will \"produce\" meta items that aren't dropped by the local rats, how people should go around building t2 in 0.0 (bring the datacores from empire space? buy the available t2 bpo? buy in jita the t2 components you can't manifacture locally because you don't control the right moons) and how they should go around selling the moon goo products they have in excess. a possible \"counter move\" by large nap trains would be to select some 0.0 station as common trading hubs where they will exchange the different products.in that scenario the group of blue alliances will become even more tightly knitted together instead of fracturing as they will have an interest in keeping the multi alliance trading hubs operative and well protected at the center of the blue territory."
"that doesn't already happen to a certain extent?i can name 2 nc hubs off the top of my head. i was at one yesterday picking up a couple skillbooks that (prior to being in the nc) i would've never expected to be able to buy in null sec."
"this statement is so ****ing stupid.6000+ people rapidly descending upon a small alliance of 100 who just setup shop 4 regions away and stamping them out of existence is what is keeping small corps/alliance from holding territory. not because they couldn't setup a jump bridge.lets see this from a small entities perspective:option #1) if left along long enough to gain the sov level, we can put up a jump bridge to ease our logistics. at the same time because of jump bridges, a power block of possible 22k+ can decent upon our medium tower and blow it into atoms in a matter of a couple minutes, whenever the mood strikes them.option #2) without a jump bridge, our logistics will be much more difficult. we will have to rely on jump freighters, blockade runners with covert ops cloak, black ops covert jump bridge to get the blockade runners around gate camps, possible shortcuts thru wormhole space, upgrading a system with the mining upgrade so we can get all the ore we need to build ships, reprocess the modules from ratting/plexing/anomolies to get minerals we can't mine, etc. but with jump bridges gone, we don't have to worry about a large power block getting here in 5 minutes just to vaporize our pos and operation for the lulz because we are more than 10 minutes away for their entire coalition to form up and take the gates here. any immediate threats will be of a much, much smaller force, something we could possibly handle instead of 1000+ vs. 100 of us.now what in the **** option do you think they would rather have? which one would give them a better chance in 0.0 without being part of a power block? and yes, if your a renter, your part of the power block, your just paying for friends.and again, there is a lot of other things that can be adjusted to improve mining, pos work, moon goo, etc. now is the time to discuss those instead of just being super focused on this one item. if we don't, then 6 months will go by and because nothing else was hammered out, ccp just might do the easy right click and delete without doing anything you all so fear.it's time for everyone to wake up, smell the cake and get back in shape and stop being lazy. you don't want to be bored to tears doing the boring **** you would need to do without jump bridges, well, what aspects about said boring **** could be changed to make it a lot more interesting.no i'm not about to mine ****ing ice or whatever rock is fotm no matter how exciting it is with it dripping **** in 3d with endless cake being feed to me. i would rather be blowing up someones ship. but in if something can be done to make it more lively then i'm all for putting whatever :effort: it takes to get it there for my fellow eve pilot.so, forget about the jump bridges, pretend they will be gone no matter what, what ideas no matter how small would you suggest to keep the game fun instead of sucks balls... go!:suggestions below this line8===============================================================d"
"i have been out of 0.0 for a long time, but i am not too surprised.for me it is a sign of good empire building, for most pvpers probably it is a sign of things becoming soft. and who will mine the minerals for your ships?in your nice dream universe have you ever thought about the little problem that you will have to spend time protecting the miners after the ease of transportation from empire has been removed?or you think you will be only the guy that will have the fun to kill the miners, never the one that will have hours of guard duty defending them?"
"removing jump bridges will favour corps with more mature logistical capability."
"most of the minerals come from high sec empire. half from botters, half from countless level 3/4 mission runners who refine their loot.most 0.0 alliances just buy minerals in empire and bridge them to their little outposts, why bother mining in 0.0?"
"never used one. i support them going away!"
"i have no problem defending miners. if invaders come, then it will be pvp time, what i wanted to begin with.or i could just pay more for my stuff because i can't be bothered to do guard duty. it all really comes down to supply and demand. if i have the mentality of not wanting to spend time going the grocery store to buy my own food, prep the food and cook it, in order to actually eat. well then i will be paying more to eat out and order delivery. i get more time on my hands but at a cost. right now, using the current situation in 0.0, eating out and ordering delivery is vastly cheaper than going to the grocery store to do it all yourself.that is completely backwards and unbalanced don't you think?removing jump bridges will favour corps with more mature logistical capability.why you shrink my line bro? also, so you have any suggestions to put under the flaccid line?"
"skynet.reality is, no matter how much ccp tries, the menial grind work will be dominated by bots. it's just going to happen. as long as it happens there will always be materials in 4-4 to build me a new ship."
"they don't exist, why would they when you can bridge stuff around? people have all but forgotten the old ways, the way of freighter escort ops.the blob entities will have an \"easier\" time insofar as they can roll really heavy when escorting, but casualties will be high for both old and young"
"fine, i'll go first...- change the pos refiner so it is possible to get 100% yield just like when refining ice at the pos.- introduce something like chemistry/alchemy/weird science **** so that it is possible to combine certain ores and some chemical reaction would yield some other ore not native to your area, but with a heavy loss.i.e. - i did a reaction that combined 10 different high end ores and produced 1 other high end ore.- increase mining barge survivability with more ehp so they can last a while for defenders to engage the attackers.- introduce the ability to hack pos silo's to nibble a bit from what is inside. possible from a covert ops ship with the hacker module or something. amount nibbled is dependent on average traffic in system per day. the more traffic, the less nibbled. if it is an afk tech moon that no one bothers to come in system except to empty it every couple weeks and the traffic is all but non-existent, then the amount nibbled would be lucrative. any total amount nibbled throughout the day should be no more than 10% of what it mined. hacker can only hack a specific silo once per day, subject to it failing based on skills. if hack fails, then you are decloaked and it is probably time to gtfo!"
"am i being trolled?eve is a boring as hell game to play because of travel and logistics. taking out jump bridges or limiting capital ship ranges would just make it worse.don't shoot yourself in the foot ccp.while we are at it why don't we take a vote on removing freighters and jump freighters from the game. that should go even further in making the game unplayable.edit: where the hell is the downvote button?"
"+1 railguns need to be weapons rather then a remote graffiti projectors.small rails might be fine. medium is a little underpowered and the large ones are just useless.rapid fire long range rail seemed to be the best among suggested ideas. it would make ra"
"issue with combat in stations. you can't get to your clone. when you get podded in a pod some jove system sends needle and toxin into your brain before you actually die (yes the pod kills you not the enemy ; p) and takes a snapshot of the neural activity - this explains the re spawn mechanic of eve. if you die out of that safe little pod guess what you don't get downloaded into a new body. you die. meaning you must make a new character, maybe inherit the last guys stuff but you have to retrain all those many many skills.so if you want allow some guy with a gun to splatter your brains and have you loose months to years worth of skill training then support this topic. but i prefer not to have such a thing, maybe hand to hand combat so i can knock the bastard out and steal his isk card :p or the key to his ship."
"yet agaaaaaain: fiction does not determine mechanics, and especially not good mechanics. tomorrow ccp could decide that the actual brain scanner is the size of a penny, or just say \"a wizard did it\" and we can med clone. to day nothing of the fact that some official fiction already says you can cone even outside of a pod."
"no thanks. there's a time to play, and a time to dock up and go to sleep. no particular desire to wake up, log on, only to be immediately suicide ganked in station.that's the problem with you so-called pirates, isn't it? it's not the carebears who want it easy, but you. otherwise you wouldn't be incessantly whining about wanting more easy prey. man up already, and go shoot someone in low-sec. oh wait, you might lose there."
"one shard, and it's based in iceland. 200+ ping. barely able to keep up with mmo style combat. oop, look at the time, must dash.you could make 8 (in combination with 4, obv.) instanced, and matched only against people with a decent ping, and i'll support that contingent on there being no mmo rubbish about trained skills improving weapon accuracy / rof / magazine size / hit points. make it about player skill. also, strap in for the myg0t invasion. don't make it a crappy kotor/swol knock off. if i want to play a futuristic isometric thing with one click combat, i'll play fallout. 9 is really distracting from what the devs should be doing, so i'm not supportive. use eve as a testbed for your wid engine? sure, go nuts. distract from making actual spaceships online content? not so much.if you can somehow make a single shard per station fps thingy with not-godawful lag and killable npc's (including the station police forces), i'd be on board. until then, no."
"read please apsidia last post, a bit other idea there is described. how it to you?if to follow the idea described by apsidia to you threatens nothing and you can easy sleep, if you will not fall asleep with pushed button \"w\" on the keypboard and you will not reach the airlock, big shreder or something threaty.if you stay in dock in a pod - threatens is zero too."
"i didn't read the entire topic, but here's how i would see it. note that it is security-heavy as there is no real need to exit your ship and if ganking is too easy no one will.captains's quarters: safe. even if you can invite someone there any weapons would be greyed out as your scanners would notice anything dangerous and be left outside.main deck: the deck that connects to hangar. this deck is the safest one and holds the station facilities and the most expensive stores to rent. the security here depends on the security level of the system, but in general unholstering any weapons will result in quick (as in ~1 sec, enough for a single shot) webifying, fines, confiscation of all weapons carried and ss loss. firing a weapon here gives a massive ss loss in addition to the previous and concord-style retaliation. also pilots with -5 or lower status will not be able to enter this area. in this area you should be able to gank someone in a group if you are really determined, but it should be penalizing enough to make ganking a random passerby not worth the trouble. no shooting at war targets.high security decks: same as above, but the reaction time for law enforcement will be little lower (3-5 seconds, enough for a few rounds of ammo). ganking in this area should still require a small group of coordinated people to pull it off successfully and in general make it not worth the hassle to shoot random people.low security decks: the security is more sparse in here and will respond in around 8-10 seconds, meaning a gank could be done with just a couple of people. walking with an unconcealed weapon isn't a crime anymore. the penalties for ganking will still apply (they could be lessened a bit though because of corruption and such) as the station management wouldn't want explosive decompression and a hefty repair bill for some badly placed shot. the reason for keeping the concord here is so that these decks will not become a wasteland like low sec is now. shooting war targets could be considered legal here. after all any damage done to the station could be billed from your corporation.lawless decks: the decks so far from anything that has any value (or with extra-reinforced walls in the case of low/nullsec) that they are not regularily guarded. no rules, but an occasional security patrol will pass trough every now and then. they will respond to nearby weapons fire and can be killed, though firing at the security will spawn several patrols looking for the offenders and responding to weapons fire usually. they will also guard the elevator shafts to prevent the aggressors from easily escaping.as for the general station configuration: all stations in empire has a main and at least one low security deck, even in 1.0 to let the low security people get out of their pods. in general the higher security systems should have more high security decks than lowsec systems. the actual number of decks will be left to ccp depending the deck size and traffic experienced by that station. the decks will have a clear indication of what security status it has, either as big bold letters next to the elevator, colour coding or in the gui like when in space.on equipment: players should have defensive equipment to prevent the \"surprise, you're dead!\" situation. shields, armour, jove/sansha body regeneration or whatever. stronger variants could be left usable only in low security decks if deemed too difficult to penetrate in high security (walking around in a heavy battle armour could be considered as a plan to cause havoc after all). customizing these to counter specific weapons would add more variety than just seeing who has the biggest pool of numbers.likewise the weapons should have more than just 1 type of projectiles, blasters and lasers. also include rare and illegally modified variants. limiting the higher security to conceable weapons only while letting people carry rifles in low security could add variety to areas."
"mhm, nano-disassembler grenade :) on perma-death note. it shouldn't happen. jump clones allow for non-lethal transfers. which means, every time pilots leave pod, they get a \"save point\"."
"bar: (maybe) the very serious and huge security guard, takes away the weapon, here again fight by fists and feet is possible only. add for lawless decks:illegal weapon and other criminal items can be trade here by npc or players.exclusive missions for pirate-players (ss -5 and lower) can be found here."
"how has ccp not replied to this yet, even just a small comment??"
"supported"
"signedi use another social site.i don't use and i do not want to use facebook."
"the ignorance being spewed in this thread is remarkable. each one of you facebook haters need to get over yourselves and then get a life...that said i don't think ccp should have used facebook to vote either. it was a method of getting more people exposed to eve which i agree with but using a vote that should only be up to the players was the wrong way of doing it."
"now that is ignorance...so everyone who doesnt follow the horde like a sheep is an ignorant and doesnt have a life? oh great, then i love to be an ignorant.it's remarkable to see how scum spreads out... first h*tler, now facebook!"
"did i tell you that you are an idiot for not having a facebook account? nope...sure didn't...i don't give a damn if you have a facebook account or not. i don't even give a damn if you are butthurt over not being able to vote but saying other people are idiots or fools for using any service you don't like is ignorant. calling people the dumbest of the dumb and not deserving to live is ignorant not to mention assinine.try again fool."
"make it only gate cloak and cov ops cloak and i will gladly support."
"you are no actually doing anything, you are telling the module to behave in a certain way after you uncloak. makes all the sense in the world"
"i will support this so long as the overheat penalty is increased by 500% while cloaked. it should fry your module in seconds!"
"and null still bugs me! i want proper longer-range ammo! blaster tracking is really obvious. blasters have half the range of auto-canons and same tracking. obviously, if you half the range, you need to double the tracking, so they can track same targets. not rocket science. it;s like giving same tracking to arties and auto-canons."
"so, half the job is done. the other half would be proposing to ccp that this team be made perpetual."
"just some thought regarding current large scale battle in 0.0:not so interesting for base pilots, you follow fc order, you play until you become primary target then you rush for another ship.battles are often won by the side aligning the larger fleet.large fleets tend to limit ship types to ease leadership, which lower tactical effect of different ships (only drakes and scimitar for instance)large fleets create huge lagafter discussing with many players, everyone just love looking at alliance tournament because of small engagement (1 pilot using his ship perfectly can change the outcome of the fight) and because of diversity (what types of ship will they align and how they interact together to form a well-balanced group).i propose to completely redesign the fleet concept in order to:give more responsibility for each pilot.give more importance to the fleet composition (preparation of the battle)try to stop very large fleet size, which is the main cause of lag when fightingthis is mainly done by reducing the number of ships in a fleet.here are my propositions to achieve this:replace the pilot fleet limit by a fleet command limitfleet command limit is influenced by fc leadership skillseach ship type receive a fleet command weightsum of all ship fleet command weight within a fleet cannot exceed the flee command limitfleet command weight is bigger for bigger ship (idea is to have fleet with no more than 15 bs sized ships for instance). taking the volume or mass of a ship to get its fleet command weight might be a first settings to investigatewhen create a fleet the fleet commander has the option prepare his fleet composition by asking for specific ships (3 drakes, a vulture, 2 scimitar) or asking for specific ship role (3 interceptors, 1 titan)when a pilot join a fleet, either the fleet has no composition, either the pilot fly one of the ships part of the composition which reserves the dedicated slot for himof course this will not stop alliance to form-up 10 fleets and play together but this will make the coordination of these fleets more difficult (you cannot warp or anchor the same guy) which will naturally force alliance leader to adapt and create new way of fighting.this will certainly force alliance to spread their forces and try to build balanced fleet groups (with complementary ships).this will also force fleet leader to think differently (do i prefer 1 drake or 2 cerberus + a frigate sized ship ?).of course you can create a full dps fleet with no support but its role and engagement will then need to be carefully planned.i know it's a little strange proposition in the never-ending \"i want to have larger fleet\" request but i think this might really add more strategy on fleet leader hands, give more responsibilities to pilots within the fleet and more over limit the number of ships fighting on the same place, thus reducing lag issue. i don't know if this kind of proposition has ever been made, let me know what you think about this.regards,jean leborgne"
"i just seemed a shame to leave something so cool get so little use."
"only if when incarna finally gets here, we can mount the heads of the corpses we've collected on the walls of our private quarters."
"original thread:"
"please learn to spell colours before you post.scorpionidae"
"just decrease the opacity of that shadow."
"supported...this is pretty lame."
"he spelled it correctly...for an american. color/colors = american. colour/colours = british...i had to look it up."
"color is perfectly correct spelling. so is aluminum the fact that brits are set on using useless letters, well that is your problem :d"
"supported. would be better if they didnt release incarna at all though imo :)"
"i admire your patiance and understand your stance towards the subject.personally i too would like to see them constantly tweak the spaceship part of eve.baring in mind that incarna is actually an expansion planned pretty much since the start of eve where oveur said at the first fanfest that the issue with walking in stations would be what to do with it, how to incoprorate it into the grand design of eve i am looking forward to see eve expand.i just hope that these expansions mean that eve grows as a whole and not that it's a shift in focus."
"that would indeed limit the usefulness of this proposal. if we could transport our own ships it might not be necessary for this ship. however, you are never going to be able to move more than 2 bs at once. that is a good start, but i still think there is an interesting role for this ship to move only rigged ships.the first non-supporter. both of these comments came from one poster in the 2 sentences he gave in reply to this proposal. one sentence for each reason.gotta admit i still don't get it. i haven't seen this exploit, and i don't really understand what you are saying. sorry for being thick on this. i take it they use an orca as a mobile base... by...? moving a bs into position in high sec with an alt and then flying in the pirate in a shuttle to board up and start shooting? is that it?well, simple fix - do not allow security-status-challenged-pilots to use a ship maintenance array in high sec or it risks immediate concord action on the \"neutral\" alt pilot's ship for \"harboring/aiding and abetting a fugitive.\" but that would be a fix for more than just this ship proposal - it sounds like it might be needed now for orcas too. what other one? they were the same guy. in the same post. separated only by a period.ah, i get it now - but i really could care less about that idea. what exactly would be the benefit of me transshipping a shuttle in a bs cargo-hold (when i can buy one in nearly any empire station), only to fly back again so i can rinse/repeat ad nauseum till i manage to move all my ships or cancel my sub in frustration? what i wanted to propose was a role/niche ship to make the mind-numbingly boring meta-gaming logistics of transporting ships that i own from place a to place b a little bit easier. i am perfectly aware that i can fly back in a shuttle - he1l, i could do it in my pod if i wanted to. that is what i am trying to avoid, so that i can actually engage in gaming instead of metagaming (sorry, piloting from a to b in high sec is not playing the game, imo).apologies for the tone, but i didn't appreciate you making it sound like there were a legion of ppl who strongly disagree with the proposal. saying \"the first 2 non-supporters\" when the two points were from the same post is just a way to make it sound like this proposal has been thoroughly panned by everyone who read it. people might disagree with it - that is what a [proposal] thread is for: discussion. just don't twist what has been said here, please."
"1.0"
"when you create a mailing list you can set a welcome mail in the settings. i'd like to have the same thing in the corp mail and while we're at it; in custom chat channels you can set a motd, but not in corp, so i'd like it there too, and why not in the alliance channel as well?"
"corp mailing list?"
"so i should create a mailing list that for all intents and purposes is a copy of the corp mail that already exists, just to get a welcome message? and how am i supposed to get new members to join that mailing list without a welcome mail telling them to do that?"
"you have a point, but i fit a wcs, so i got away anyway."
"haha, ok i give you that one, gf"
"that's what i am saying for a long time."
"bump"
"it is currently considered an exploit to survive engagement with concord.perhaps you should ask ccp to have jove protect lowsec instead."
"ok. first of all, eve wouldn't be a game anymore if this happened. it would just be /b/ with splashes of java script and moving vechicles. eve would stop working because carebears would become extinct. i'd like to see how long you last in highsec without carebears. i'd just laugh from my grav sites in wormhole while you pay 0.5 bil for a core probe launcher.that being said,having concord patrols in lowsec should definately exsist. if rats get into highsec, concord should get into lowsec. except concord is friendly to people with the correct security status in lowsec. concord would be like regular rats in lowsec. nurfed from highsec ones. but have an inverted security status gain/loss from rats. you gain sec status for killing rats, lose for killing concord. makes sense and its simple.0.5-1.0 concord exsists as they are now. delays and 99999.99 dps and all0.4 concord would be like 0.6 rats0.3 concord would be like 0.7 rats0.0 concord would be like 1.0 rats < easiest concord to kill. low sec loss and bad loot0.4 - 0.1 shouldn't just be an ftp situation. if i owned abbandoned gold mines, asspecailly if they where planet size, i would still have them scouted out and patroled regularly.also, move this to features and ideas.jess"
"i don't understand why you think my proposed change would break eve to such a great extent. perhaps you can elaborate on how that would happen?furthermore, if concord rats in .4 are as weak as npc rats in .6, then they won't serve any purpose being there, and nobody will be any safer due to their presence."
"because the safety your proposal affords highsec for anything below 0.8 is inadequate to keep industrialists and traders at their intended roles. remember, those are not mission runners, their characters have zero combat sp, and their freighters have zero combat abilities. they are not combat characters that can refit their boats for pve/pvp, they are non-combat characters that depend on either player run or npc security. it will break up highsec into islands of 0.8-1.0, and break the economy in the process. industrialists are mandatory to eve economy, yerrr-priates are optional. your rat level npc concord is worthless, even navy level npc can easily be tanked and killed, as anyone in fw knows. lowsec right now will still be lowsec, and highsec below 0.8 will be lowsec.the most effective security consists of sov null defence fleets. in some of the more backwater systems in a large alliance, you will not see a non-friendly for weeks on end. it is the safest space in all of eve. the second is regular concord. think of them as nrds security who also happen to be very stupid, thus allowing suicide gankers to freely run scanners at gates and shopping for targets, responding only after the gank. it makes highsec safer than lowsec, and more dangerous than sov null. your rat-level concord is no security, it will just expand lowsec."
"not supported. this would ruin my current profession in eve. so i cannot support it. some ransom attempts take several minutes to complete, and having concord show up would make me pull the trigger more than needed."
"youre kidding, right?"
"oh come on. if you're going to troll the least you could do is put some effort and creativity into it and be a lot less obvious.-windjammer"
"so i was discussing eve with my 1.0 pals last night...the topic of discussion moved on to risk free corporation/alliance 0.0 systems isk generation. it is absolutely risk free. there are not even ninja-salvagers. my proposals are:- remove anomaly sites from 0.0 - make npcs on the belts the same as in 0.5-1.0 (2-3 frigs per belt)...it was sarcasm. if serious, if you and your pals think that missioning in high-sec is more profitable - do 4 lvl missions in high-sec. i do. i have jump clones in low-sec for pvp fun and in high-sec for money earningit is simple. problem is solved."
"i see a differnet problem.missions should only give \"bountys\" in my opinion.loot - should never be dropped.the items loot drops should be built by manufacturers in eve.othewise a missioner gets so much loot / salvage / lp / isk - it kills the mining toon. a mining toon does not get any lp / isk ( cuase a 4k pirate is worth 0) / wow 2 salvages from a pirate."
"yes, macro miners could certainly use the buff. and there definitely won't be more macro miners popping up to fill the gap and make mineral prices even lower, like when loot got nerfed last time in tyrannis."
"hello i keep it short. as we all know this has been a milk cow for much of the big alliances for years. nothing against that if you fight for it you should have.on small change. have all the moons of the same rarity have all the minerals that could be switched on or off. [maybe with different abbundance] this would prevent monoplies or violent swings in prices and the moons still would be valuable"
"remove them and put them in lowsec. it will bring life to low."
"i know a couple of guys who play on a fx5200 which doesn't support shader model 3.they may unsubscribe... lol"
"ok."
"shader model 3.0 was released in 2004! are you telling me that there are people that cannot afford to buy a 7 year old card that would still be an upgrade to them to play this game? it would be like $10 if you could even find one! hell ill give you one for free! not to mention i am not even sure a 7 year old pc can run the current graphics engine...if it can it must be laggy as all hell and looks like ****. must be even worse on a laptop...absolutely not supported...if you can't afford to upgrade your rig with even the cheapest of video cards then go play ultima online...stop holding everybody else back."
"did you even read his post? you can;t swap gfx cards on most laptops! you people are hopeless.and yeah, it sucks, but can't do much about that."
"priceless"
"but you knew that when you bought the laptop... that's the nature of the beast when gaming on laptops."
"armor based capitals have advantage of the slave implant. shield based crystals do not work with capital modules either1 make slaves work only on sub capital class of vessels. or2 make the crystals work on capitals active tanks or 3 introduce shield \"slave\" hp boosting equivalent. thank you for attention feel free to discuss the alternatives."
"and ccp please introduce armor \"crystal\" hp boosting equivalent"
"i'm actually for this idea - but only if it has penalty to shield recharge rate in a way that total hp/sec remains constant.and there should be implant set for active armor repair.maybe change the current halo and talisman sets do fill those roles, as they are now, they are most useless sets ever"
"i still say this is the single most balanced and appropriate change to titan dd. i think more and more people every day are understanding just how bad it's getting as titans proliferate.csm vuks old post, also links my old post and discussion thread from 2 years ago.linkage again, why does this idea work. it ushers in the age of more t3 devices where heat is a defensive advantage and not just a way to do more tank/gank over t2. it's a role for tech 3 rather than a better tech is better concept.it also removes the 1 shot kill effect that so many people hate. ultimate weapons are bad in every game ever made. they destroy balance.the 4 different effects of the titan dd are simple:heat has 20% chance of affecting any mod. this means that you can mass spam dd b/c you run the risk of affecting friendly titans/sc which would destroy their defensive boosting abilities.damage has the ability to clear all normal drones and crappy skilled fighters. good for lag, good for drone swarming gayness. frigates may or may not die depending on fit/damage type. dictors can usually live. it also clears light dictor bubbles.warp stasis affects every ship on grid. meaning if you lead a fight off with a dd, then your fleet has a chance to rush in and trap the enemy fleet while they're crippled.neuting is all about the inability to mass spam dd again while also acting as a 2ndary fleet crippling device. there's literally no way to mass spam more than a few dd if each titan get's neuted (titans rarely have 90% or above capacitor to start with, especially after hot dropping into fights). but again, you're already limited b/c of the heat affects. so really, you're never going to see multiple dd abuse again.keep titans gun bonuses. titan gun bonuses are very appropriately balanced atm. it was a good boost after they finally nerfed tracking."
"supported."
"why would this make any difference to super fights? or anything in fact? you would still have the case of numbers > tactics when it comes to supercaps, this would even make it worse. dd's are probably the smallest priority to change right now when it comes to supers being overpowered"
"got to ask yourself how ******ed would it be when somone spams 5+ of those things on the same grid... i'm guessing very."
"it would make titans into a pseudo tackler. i kinda like the idea. scarriers messing with people - jump a titan in, dd one scarrier (now it can't jump/warp) - drop fleet on it - battle escalates. it would mean more super caps die. that's probably a good thing as scarriers rarely, rarely, rarely die."
"i would say the fc dumb enough to do it would have at least 2 crippled titans stuck on grid with hardly any tank or guns to fight back. guess that 50mil ehp buffer wasn't worth it to him, b/c now his titans have about 20 mil ehp.his own friendly super carriers would also probably not have any fb or tank of their own either. not to mention, what if the fc does this, and the support fleet dodges most of them... then he's crippled titans for nothing and is uber ****ed."
"the warp scram effect means that once the first one tags a support fleet they get the full combo however many that is.a drop of 2-3 titans basically nails everything on the grid, it'd reduce tactics to whos got the most titan drops / can cyno/bridge in somemore stuff last.my basic problem is if you catch a fleet with a couple of them its pack up an go home time..... this is not the way of maximum fun.omfgzoor boomsticks on uber units always lead to cheesetastic balance, titans would be better off in a force multiplier role... but that might take some thought."
"so, do you even read the post and think for 2 seconds, or do you just post the moment you get a bad thought?\"it usher's in the age of t3 devices with a purpose for the heat bonuses\" this means they can implement tech 3 guns and devices that have higher heat resistance meaning they can take a titan dd and live. which also means they can nanite repair. it also means they can make t3 guns low damage but high heat damage or tracking. high heat buffer means they can overheat for longer if they desire. so it's a role w/o replacing tech 2. one of the biggest delemmas for tech 3 gear has always been what's the role w/o replacing tech 2. this adds to the concept of a heat role for tech 3.multiple dd affect titans, meaning titans are also crippled and ripe for being hotdropped by a cap fleet and dropping instantly if they try to stack.you do also realize there is a 20 second spool up time for dd. they're not that hard to dodge with support fleets."
"i understand where your coming from but an aoe effect of the nature you've described is a real pain to balance. it might be ok if alliances only had access to a couple of titans each but they've got them by the buttload.how much damage would a single dd do? the aoe means you could hit anything from a couple of frigs to 200+ caps you just can't balance for that. atleast with the present dd naff though it is theres a cap to how much it can do.anything thats immobile is even more useless ... you could chain dd a dread blob a couple of times then walk over it.again it reduces the higher level game to timing dd's and drops.t3 and heat means rebalancing the whole combat system, thats a big task and considering how much is broken at the moment ccp's time would be better spent fixing that."
"let me try to explain you \"s_l_o_w_ly\"\"coupled with drones\" -what a joke, every ship carries drones, if you don't have them, train for them. drones are not specific to gallente,nor they have +1drone p/level bonus on their ship so this is not an acceptable argument.i don't know how your skils list is but there is some problem about this particular comment. i have less problems but still have to hit stuff with med blasters than large ones but even hitting the stuff isn't enough, the dps is ridiculous compared with autos or even pulses in the same ship, they have mutch better dps projection/tracking. even my rails do larger dmg when by miracle i hit the stuff close.don't even loose your time training for large ones if you are not crosstrained enough to use a vindicator, you'll need a 1b ship without fit and gimp it to hell to make it work like a t1 blaster hull should work.myrmidons shield tank with autos work betterthorax with autos work betterbrutix shield tank with autos work bettermega with artys works bettermega with autos works betterthen you have this: guristas ships: gila or rattle = 400m3 of drones, drones bonusangel ships: you should thank ccp that they gave gallente bonus to those ships, they are not op because of this serpentis ships: better ehp pull/speed, extra dps bonus, web bonusvindicator is the t1 l3 version of what should be the gallente bs or the gallente hybrids bonus, just a few days crosstraining to have it but 100% more expensive than kronos"
"due, i get it you don't like my post, but take care to come up with proper arguments. so according to you, if a ship has a bonus to armor tank i should be shield tanking it? wtf? if a ship has a bonus towards something it cannot adequately use, either the ship need adjustment, or the bonus. this much seemed obvious to me. if a ship has bonus to large hybrids and armor repairers, it should be able to fit both of them ffs. *facepalms*dude, first of all, this thread is not only about pvp, it is pve too. second, yea, it is better than hyperion in both areas. you would like to dispute that? can you not even be bothered o go check battle-clinic before trolling my post? i loled hard"
"t1 l3 hyperion, the ultra tech blaster platform of wallente. if you think it works fine it's your opinion but not mine.so imo let give you some more for lols :the hype would be mutch better with the vindicator bonus. you think it wouldn't? keep smiling, smile is good for your health"
"i do agree.it is actually sad."
"good day my fellow capsuleers, with this proposal i hope to solve a long time problem. i haven<U+FFFD>t read a lot of the issue so if i copy somebody idea and you feel that i haven't quote you i am sorry, i just didn't read what you said (means i am original, but could be repetitive).bounty's system its broken, i just checked today if was solved but no, so heres comes my proposal of how to solve it in a effective way.what we know of reals bounty's? that many of them are just posted in the sheriff office just like an ad, and others are real contracts. contracts my friends, thats how the most effective bounty's come to be resolved.so the first point should be making bounty hunting a contract.but that gives other problems that i think gonna solve.first: moving bounty's to contracts would be non-anonymous. so to be more effective bountys should be optionally anonymous, the database would still know who posted the contract but not the bounty hunter.second: there should be a option and a way to actually pass kill rights. it should be simple as passing a object (more specifically, like the bookmarks). so the player that was killed and with megarage just pay and pass his kill right to actually somebody be able to kill without concord freaking you up.third: a search option to find more bounty's contracts of the same guy, so you could actually get more cash for the same job.fourth: a bounty hunter rating system, like amazon third-party stores with their satisfaction rating. so before you give the bounty hunter the job you can see if they got experience doing it and knowing which previous jobs they have done (like when a contract finish that you can see the details).so finally a example of how it should be:1) bh its bored, need money, open contracts or bountys and see what its around.2) client posted a bh contract marking the option anonymous, set 400 million and a abbadon as rewards. he also put inside the contract the kill right of \"the bastard\" that needs a lesson. in comments he also post: \"a extra if you kill him inside his navy issue ship\".3) bh finds the contract, find it good and hit bid (or any other word, just follow the example). wait to see what happens.4) client check the bounty and 5 bounty hunters seems interested, he check every bounty hunter reputation (or rating) and decides to give bh the job.5) bh receives confirmation that he got the job and receive the kill right, he go to the bountys again for more bountys for \"the bastard\" and happy finds that they got a least a couple of millions and are in \"auto accept\" option. (auto accept or whatever they decide to name would be like a option to avoid bidding so the client and the bounty hunter have not to wait a bid and its confirmation, like a exchange contract.)6) bh finds the bastard, sadly not in his navy issue ship and shot him. client finds the confirmation that the contract have been finished and check if bh posted the kill mail, after seeing the things he opens in the finished contract and move a slider in the good rating.7) bh finds that the client of the contract put in the contract satisfaction a good rating instead of the excellent rating. he decides to get drunk and curses the guy who give him the job. at least it doesn't affect him negatively in his rating.now i hope you like this proposal and hit the support checkbox. now i wonder if i should have waited to the new forums to come before posting incursion 1.1.0. lol and cheers!"
"i support myself."
"bottom line is that eve is setup in such a way that makes it very difficult to kill specific person in 1 on 1.first, 1 on 1 is difficult to achievesecond, when a target person becomes aware that he is hunted, he can easily avoid combat. especially in empire (no bubbles) it's very difficult to force people into combat. just gotta wait for them to make a mistake, which can take days.who's want to spend days trying to chase 1 person? especially if that person chooses to play it safe?that's why the bounty system will always fail while the kill right is granted to 1 person.the only way to hurt somebody with bounty on their head is to allow everyone to attack that person, everywhere, until the bounty is removed. of course, if we went that way, we'd have to raise minimum bounty limit to something significant, like 10 mil. and to give 24 hour count down till open aggression can begin."
"very interesting idea. might need a few tweaks.. because of the problem of the hunted, trying to get his own bounty contract and pod himself with an alt.otherwise, i support it all!"
"kill rights are just useful for high sec, where 1 to 1 its possible. and using the contract system you will have to be checking constantly when they chasing you. and if that person decides to play it safe? well you are **** up as when you make a wardec and see that the whole other corp its docked as rabbits in their holes. and giving them the 24 hour count down its gonna be just worse. and allowing everyone be able to attack that person in high sec its just gonna be the biggest **** could happen in the game.the game cant be perfect for everyone because it would be like playing chess with just one row."
"thank you. the problem of being hunted by an alt should be avoided if you see with the bid (or whatever word may describe it better) where you can select to who give him the contract to start the bounty hunting. it isnt perfect but its better that just auto kill yourself to get the bounty!"
"the op's idea is completely unworkable. the intentions are good, but the game just doesn't work that way, it can't work as intended."
"something like:"
"hey daitengu i have already proposed this. it was shouted down with cries of \"silly goonies learn to pvp\" and \"if you cant fight supercaps stay out of 0.0\". no real arguments but shouted down nonetheless"
"i would say: boost battleships and dreadnaughts dps/survival to the same point cruisers/battlecruisers are dangerous to bs's. wy nerf when you can boost?"
"not really, your proposal was good, this one isnt.right now imagine the ideal gang to take over sov: ****load of supers + some dictors/hictors, since they are the only ones that can do something that you cannot achieve by throwing more supers on it: pinning down hostile supers.after this change: ****load of supers + one cyno ship. you are only makign supers even stronger (granted some dictors to pin down more enemies while your supers would quickly dispose of everything would be handy)."
"not supported.there is already another thread about super carrier nerf. you should post your idea there or better yet, post it in features and idea forum like ed should have done with his to begin with."
"as you all know, a t2 ship will generally perform better than a t1 ship. for instance, whereas the incursus only gets one drone, the ishkur, improving on the gallente's drone fetish, brings to the table, two flights of light drones.as you all know, the minmatar fetish is speed. so naturally, improving on the speed the rifter has, the wolf... oh wait... the jaguar takes this speed to a new... oh wait.yes that's right, neither the wolf nor the jaguar can match the rifter's speed without a speed mod in the low slots or a gistum afterburner. i suppose this is because of the added armor/hull mass of these ships but (and this is particularly true of the jaguar), being that minmatar generally are renowned for their speed, wouldn't it make sense for them to be as fast as their t1 counterpart, if not faster?i propose you make the two minmatar assault frigates, the jaguar and the wolf, have speed that is on par with the rifter. otherwise i am just going to say screw it and faction fit my rifter since the wolf brings no web to the table and the jaguar only has got a better tank and a little more dps."
"the firetail is the rifter-on-crack you are looking for."
"yeah but... jaguar :)i suppose i will have to fit out a firetail. why oh why cant the jag be fast as the rifter it bugs me too much"
"everyone already knows assault frigates suck. making a small, fast ship less fast and less \"small\" (so far as signature radius is concerned) so it can have higher resists is, well, dumb. really dumb. and ccp said they were going to fix them in dominion by giving them a boost to afterburner effectiveness. that... didn't happen. instead we got fighter bombers."
"yeah but that afterburner boost was a stupid idea. you need to have versatility in which type of assault ship does what not just make them into tankier interceptors built for close range. idc about the other af, they can be a little bit slower, or a little bit bigger, because speed isn't the caldari or the amarr or the gallentes thing - it is the minmatar specialty, and i feel it's wrong to beat the crap out of minnies specialty on the af. speed is the only thing keeping them alive, if they were slow as a harpy, theyd die in seconds to any other af. and yet theyre not fast enough in a lot of cases i find that the rifter is."
"mabe this could be considered true but, the fact is that every single ship no matter the faction or size is abble to deploy drones and the same number. wtf? is the single specificity of gallente to be the worst on everything they are supposed to be stronger?let's take same average sp pilot/ability/experience, lets take a look at the roles.you have 3 subcap ships that work properly with drones -vexor ishtar and dominix - checkall the other types of ship have the same bonus than other factions but work worst= check(i hate frigs i hate them all so frigs = drones point blanck )bigger dmg with artys in gall ships than with rails even loosing ship bonus - checkblasters: the bigest fail of all factions weapons outperformed by any other - checkif you want to stay rp an give some rp bonus,then it would be +1drone per level but, i would like something that makes blasters realy melt your ugly face and cry \"moma\" if you let me get close to your ass has they were intended to work, because blasters too are in the gallente's rp.make it possible with some sub so that this boat becomes some minicarrier i'm ok with that, but not make it the drone carrier and no other choice possible by nerfing other subs type in the name of the fake drone people. take the drone bay away from all other kind ships under caps and then yes, gallente will be the drone people."
"this is a very interesting proposal, and definatly a possible rout to go down"
"problem one for the proteus is that it only has 100 bandwidth. that the proteus can't field a full team of sentries but the gila and ishtar can is somewhat confusing."
"faction navy spawns arent the way forwardm neither is turning low sec into a watered down version of high sec. the problem is that a character with decent probing skills can lock down a mission runner in under 30secs making it too easy to catch mission runners. i personally have no sympathy with people who say ratting is difficult cause there ratting ship isnt fit to combat pvp ships, its really easy to stay safe and rat. mission running in low is also fairly easy to stay safe as long as you do the usual tricks, align out, dont sit on the warp in, keep an eye on local/directional scanner but due to the probing system you will eventually lose ships.most problems are caused by either that or a general group of the population that jump into low sec in pve fitted ships rather than just refitting there ships when they reach there missioning system or people who start running missions and expect that they can go afk like they do in high sec and earn easy isk"
"it may have been deleted by the grammar police.it may have been deleted because you have no proposal in your op (or any coherent thoughts - but thats another matter)it may have been delted since despite your attempts to tell others to grow a pair you are posting on a troll alt with no combat history."
"edit: i screwed up. i got some emails confused. the actual reality is that i don't have an answer to this question yet.thus, the following is incorrect. my bad.my spies inside ccp report that this is \"working as intended\"many bothans died getting you this information, hope it was worth it."
"the individual mechanics at play are each simple enough, but the novel interaction of downtime processes, shield bonuses, and pos incapacitation rules set out here is not something that i suspect would have occurred to most people, even those familiar with all 3 components, and quite possibly not even to seasoned game designers at ccp.if this is an intended consequence, then i recommend that the op and his friends adapt by using zero-cpu turret-based defences when colonising pulsar systems."
"to csm guys...if you bring up some sort of hybrid fix...it would have been enough for us...if you brought up how bo need a boost...it would have been enough for us...if you talked about a low sec boost...it would have been enough for us...if you demanded af get a 4th bonus...if would have been ehough for us...but when you complain about hot chicks handing out free stuff at fanfest...it was too much for us...thank you..."
"lol jason... first you complain about scs, then propose introducing more overpowered supercapsi support the motion of a moderate sc nerf combined with a moderate dread buff. give the latter better non-siege dps (comparable to a carrier with fighters) and better sieged tracking."
"thread can be closed, csm and ccp already share my concerns and have explains this on the csm meeting"
"there are plenty of people i know that don't know when the hell to shut up. there's no way i would want them representing me even if i agreed with them on what they were saying. ever heard of the saying \"discretion is the better part of valor\"?i'm not about to start doing research for you to prove my point. a quick google search will bring up plenty of instances of her rediculous behavior. if you don't want to do that research that's your perogative, honestly i don't care what your opinion is either way.read this:"
"im sorry that your pubbie queen was little more than some vapid populist donkeyps i guess darius is enjoying his new job?"
"this is nonresponsive. you say you know people who you would not want to represent you. that wasnt the issue. the issue/question is, do you want your representative to stop advocating for you when the going gets a bit tough? if everyone on the csm who should shut the hell up did so, it would be really quiet. ever hear of filibusters, picking your battles, rage, rage against the dying of the light, etc., etc., etc.? politicians do not serve their constituency by shutting the hell up when their opposition wishes them to do so.or how about this observation? six months after the start of this thread you still feel the need to take a snide little pot shot at someone who isnt around to defend themselves. to what purpose? would this, perhaps, have been an excellent opportunity for you to practice what you preach? i.e. shutting the hell up?how about the opinion of people who agree with you? how about the opinion of anyone else who disagrees with your position?no, you didnt say it, you insinuated it by your conclusion and your assumptions. you conclude she was justifiably removed from the csm for doing something that the others have not done. you base your conclusion, not upon knowledge, but upon assumption. you assume ccp removed her because she was doing something in violation of the nda that other members of the csm were not. you assume ccp would have to be stupid to do something like this. the fact of the matter is, ccp can at any time they wish remove any member of the csm they wish and cite violation of the nda. they can do this without fear of reprisal because they can be technically correct under the law even if nothing of substance is leaked.not at all. its an observation of your conclusions and what theyre based upon. youd be dissected in a court of law. its only the court of public opinion that allows you any dignity at all.-windjammer"
"ohhh, yes please. by all means lets read this. excerpts from that thread:post 2: from someone who is noted as anti-ankh post 12: referring to ankh. post 19: from the person the spoon was thrown at. from what i can tell it was done so to interrupt a side conversation that was disruptive to the main conversation of the meeting. post 22: from a csm present at the event and who expressed disappointment that sokratesz, an anti-ankh person, chose to publish an non-event which would predictably be seized upon and blown out of proportion.theres more. merely reading the first page or perhaps even the first two pages of that thread is enough to educate you on the event or as mynxee phrased it, non-event.perhaps now you can see how this sort of thing becomes distorted and blown out of proportion to what actually happened. a friendly clap on the back can become an assault. a nudge to a someone sitting beside you can become an elbow jab to the midsection.this non-event is a far cry from what you and others came to believe it.-windjammer"
"considering the source, this isnt an insult. however, im impressed your trainers were able to teach you the words vapid and populist. it must have been difficult for you."
"hi, is this where i can pick up that shipment of internet tears?"
"do you know what the funny thing about this thread is, most of the issues mf and others raised got brought up in the csm minutes and ccp have in fact said it is ridiculous and have said it is blobbing.as for me ccp have said supercaps are op (in longer terms) and supercarriers are gimping dreads.furthermore jump bridges and logistics were also criticised by ccp and lack of combatwhile i am against alt posting and ******ed trolling i got to hand it to mini (assuming he is mf) for his comments, now ccp will focus on the issues.guess this is what he means by the problem being solved hehebahh i was going to congratulate him in game but it looks like he deleted his char :("
"yah, ccp has it wrong. put zulu in charge of sc changes."
"advertising is not permitted on this forums. thread locked."
"add something about how cpp should remove gallente from races if they are not going to look into or even acknowledge some of the obvious problems with allot of thier ships/rageqq"
"cosmetic onlyi vote for cosmetic microtransactions only.maximum wnat is possible: only visual changes! and nothing else! or game will turn to crap.p.s.actually i would vote \"no way!\""
"cosmetic only(if some of the cosmetic stuff is still available to everyone...)"
"no!!!be warned: you will never see another dime from me if you do this!!! i will cancel all my accounts the same day!!!go ahead and mess up a perfectly good game.i think you would loose most of your core players if you did this.all these votes for cosmetic microtransactions only are just opening the door for ccp to implement microtransaction into all aspects of the game at a later time. \"vote no\" who in the hell would want to see pink ships flying around, or a noob killing off vet players just because they put $200 into a ship. you all know thats how it will end up. the game will be based on who has the most rl money. what's next? buying skill points? week old toons with 100m skill points. -again i say \"vote no\"-"
"yes, id like to see more to0 fast skilled up pilots cause they bought a f*kton of neural remaps, flying expensive ships bought with plex, without the heads to use em. in the end they can jsut buy a lot of plex and buy a toon.. so it makes no difference.tbh that **** would make for more **** to shoot at, and a happy ccp that makes more rl isks.. which would make for a better game... as we all know happy employees, work harder :)"
"cosmetic onlyi can agree with micro isk (!) transactions for let's say changing or adding to your character. however i would propose that large content updates (let's say a large new set of character cloths or accessories) should be available for free when it's released. then after let's say a week you'll have to pay some isks to change your avatar.i really don't know what else could be done at this point other then avatar customization, but i would be against only being able to use features like stationwalking or planetary interaction if you paid for it (monthly extra fee or something).i'll need to see some concrete plans before completely dismissing or agree-ing with micro transactions. it's a tough topic."
"titans now are useless unless you have 10+ of them with significant sc / cap / conventional support. yes: i know they aren't supposed to be solo-ships, but unless you are a large power-block, the 50+ billion isk is just a fancy jump-bridge. you don't currently dare bring just one to a fleet, regardless of support fleet size. and large supercap fleets battling it out seems to be a non-issue that only the largest of alliances / coalitions has to worry about. smaller to more mid-sized alliances will rarely use their ship currently.titans were meant to be feared shps. while they can one-shot anything sub supercapital every 10 minutes (and becoming pretty vulnerable during that time) . . . so what? i'm sure the ddd bs / hic pilot is ****ed, but awww.titans now are instead frequent victims of supercarrier blobs. i don't mind if a titan gets tackled by a sizable fleet and slowly dies. but the fact that a handful of scs can relatively quickly kill a titan when a few titans cannot quickly kill a sc is a problem.so . . . my proposal:1 - nerf scs. they are way too powerful against all capital ships and pos structures (i joined a friend and the two of us completely incapped all mods on a properly fit ds in about 10 minutes and was never in any jeopardy). cut their hp and the damage the fbs do. yaay's idea about only 1x additional per level makes some sense. and edfromhumanresources' ideas on other nerfs also makes sense.also, how about a sc skill? titans require capital ships v, why not supercarriers?2 - return aoe damage, but in the form of a script. make it a single-shot ship when you have that script in (but increase it to 5m damage so it finally does some meaningful damage to a sc - it will still instapop anything sub super-cap now anyway) and a aoe weapon when that script is in with 200-300k damage just like it used to have. this revision will make it necessary to actually use strategy when attacking one rather then just blobbing it and hovering on some \"post\" button in yet another dead-titan caod thread. like all other mods, you cannot change scrips until the module has cycled, so it does give the hostile fleet some idea of what to consider. titans are supposed to be feared. not just juicy and hunted targets. bring that fear back. they will still die when used improperly / in smaller fleets. but they will once again be what they were meant to be: the feared ship of eve.(and yes: i do fly a sc on one of my alts)"
"nerf doesn't even go far enough tbh.wouldn't mind seeing all scap stats reduced to a fraction; cost, dps, ehp. de-super them so to say until they fit into the previous capital lineup as specialised capitals.still, regardless of the specific direction proposed, there needs to be change."
"1. cynosaural field generators can only be fitted onto a cruiser classed ship with a tank like heavy interdictors. voila. now everyone will know what that ship is up to; follow you closely and gank you when in low sec. and no cloakies either as it interferes with cyno generation capacity. make it bloody hard to get a cyno ship into a systems enemy home. add in a need for strontium clathrates for stability and a thirty second warm up period after cyno is lit. impact will be felt on hot drops now won't it. 2. supercarrier becomes t2 assault carrier. loses all high slots bar one which can fit remote ecm projector. assault carriers are the vanguard of a force; you jump them in to break up a gate camp. assault carriers field fighter bombers and fighters only. they have *****ing tanks and do great damage. they have a fuel bay and cargo bay and that is it. bonuses are to racial damage and to tank. they are ecm proof still but can receive no support from logistics or other capitals.3. dreadnaughts damage is buffed across the board so that dreads can **** a supercarrier in siege.4. restore titan aoe doomsday - restrict range to 30km. titan kills should be bloody hard to achieve but they die like flies.5. stations become destructible. you don't defend them; they become smashed hulks. if a disused hulk; clones destroyed, ships destroyed, modules destroyed. return eve to that ugly dark world where defeat makes you cry. two fights one to put into reinforced where all services are destroyed. second one against station; fight or \"boom\". that is, force a major fight.6. make mining worthwhile in null sec again with scannable awesome belts. improve the quality of ice belts in null sec markedly. i can mnake moire doing level 4 missions in empire per hour than i can mining or ratting; why bother. mining should be the number one isk generation method; then ratting; then plexing and then missioning.7. make missioning harder - its too easy to mission.8. change current tier 3 battleships to a new ship class - pocket battleship; pure damage boats (minnie - guns, amarr - lasers, gall- hyrbrids and caldari - missiles). ship requires capital ship/ awu 5 skills, capital armor rep, only battleship sized guns and no jump capability (must use gates). pocket battleships have awesome tank and great damage, remain vulnerable to ewar. these ships are a stepping stone between battleships themselves and jump capable capital ships."
"this doesn't fix the fact that supercaps are more powerful in low sec than in 0.0 - primarily due to the lack of counters available in low sec.-liang"
"-you raised a key premise supporting your particular nerf. your premise was, we know a supercarrier nerf is incoming. that's been confirmed beyond a shadow of a doubt. - i suspected this assertion was a lie.-i politely refrained from calling you a liar an"
"super caps are super for a reason; the idea that a small gang should be able to nuet and drop a super cap to me is ridiculous. if you take a step back and look at the material cost vs. performance, its not really that great. dropping it further only and reducing its ability to take on smaller targets defeats the concept to which this ship was born."
"i think the idea is not for small gang to kill a supercap, but for supercap to be unable to neut and drop entire small gang.supercaps and small roaming gangs should simply not be able to do anything to each other.also, the concept on which the ship was built on was anti-cap. that role shouldn't be nerfed."
"why would moving the +drone bonus from the hull to the modules boost sc dps?"
"i believe he is talking about the sansha mothership, it can fit 6x drone control units. dd's fire every 5 minutes, so take a super carriers dps and add that up over 5 minutes. i'm too lazy to do the math but correct me if i am miss informing here."
"yes to ability to change bloodlines."
"supported"
"yes please... i didn't choose to be chinese at least give us a chance to change bloodlines once."
"yeah, ccp, gives us a chance to change it."
"supported!!!"
"i agree, although i would also like the option to change race."
"supportedi've posted at legnth on general discussion but there are very real issues those of us with darker skins stand up for in real life, and we also stand up for our relatives and our children.the original editor wasn't anything perfect, but if we tried hard enough and adjusted the lighting choices and shows, covered our eyes with glasses (or just wore a hood ! lol) a person could come closer to some third world peoples of the world than you do now. with the changes in the editor, it might take a different blood line to even attempt looking something darker and we should at least be given that chance if accomodating more third world human looks isn't possible. certainly a step backwards from something very meh before doesn't feel right.. a choice of a change in race is would at least be a token statment that they care about some customers feelings about the issue."
"supported"
"supported"
"supported.when i first loaded up the new char editor, i was kind of excited.having looked at the options i had to choose from.. i'm quite underwhelmed...."
"supported"
"don't forget to click the support option on your post... otherwise it doens't count."
"it boils down to ccp having 24 combinations of characters to be made, and only giving 1 single combination (race/gender/bloodline) to their loyal paying customers, whereas new recruits who may not even make it to the subscription phase are being given all 24.an utter disgrace."
"ye i wanna hav access to the full range of characters not just one, also a gender change could be possible aswell seing as many names in the game arnt gender specific."
"+1where were you people as i started a thread about this a year ago?now that its out everyone wants a change+1+1+1+1+1+1+1+1+1+1+1+1+1+1+1+1+1+1+1!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!"
"signed"
"i support this too. i have four accounts and i'm generally satisfied with two of the mains from each account i have a khanid and a vherokior alt whom i was quite unsatisfied with regarding the potential facial mixes.i'll freely admit to being shallow, and likewise i'll admit that in a game like this your face is likely by far one of the least important aspects of the game, but if i'm going to take the time to create a character i want that character to at least be as close to my ideal for that character as possible, and the current models for the khanid and vherokior are very unsuitable."
"supported"
"first off, due to several people becoming confused i will state this right off with large font and bold:this proposal has absolutely nothing to do with covert ops cloaks. it only deals with normal cloaks.now that that is out of the way, my proposal:when using any non-covert ops cloaking device, your capacitor recharge time is -100% that does not mean you lose cap, it just means it stops recharging, no matter what cap recharge modules you have fit. if you cloak and you had 54% cap, after 5 minutes or 5 days of being cloaked, it will stay at 54% the entire time.this will be a slight inconvenience for non capital ships but this is a big nerf towards super capitals who like to warp off to safe spot to cloak up till they gain enough cap to jump out. thus forcing them to either stay probable till their capacitor is enough to jump or have other ships use remote cap transfers on it. either way it makes them more exposed.edit: black ops battleships should not be affected by the capacitor recharge penalty while cloaked. they don't another nerf."
"suported"
"i see no downside."
"sorry. if you can't tackle/kill that capital when he shows up at the giant gankmesign (known as a cyno) then you obviously do not want that kill hard enough."
"maybe you should take a look at this proposal then."
"oh heck ya!also for cov ops means they player has to be there or eventually he will decloak.this should be put in, staying invisible forever without cost is silly."
"cloak draws no cap, so this will not decloak anyone.supported btw."
"supported."
"it will only hurt cowardly and/or stupidly brave super-caps so can only support."
"absolutely not supported, would completely take away the abilty for supers to jump into high risk situations such as ninking on a jb or ganking dreads on a pos. nonsense like this would just encourage more blob mentality for supers, and if you think thats a good thing come up north and watch the nc pos bash for hours on end. wtf yoshida, yes please lets punish 'stupidly brave' pilots? confirming that bravery has no place in eve, so lets all jump in a blob"
"\"reckless\" is overused, meaning is the same my dear"
"love the idea. i'd just like to stress the importance of non-covert cloaks killing capacitor regen. poor covert ops ships have very little capacitor, and warping around depletes it quickly.thank you for the excellent proposal."
"couldnt they just wait out agression, log off and then come back with full cap later?"
"covops cloak should have a cap reduction bonus built in dependent on the cloaking skill.even at cloaking v, a perfect covops should still cap out after approximately three hours. this will give people easily enough time to accomplish whatever it is they want to do whilst cloaked, it would give them a possibility of getting probed down whilst recharging for the minute or so it takes for their cap to regen whilst uncloaked, and it would eliminate afk cloaking because its an unimaginative and ****ty way to lock down systems.it would also give specialist characters a reason to train cloaking v."
"not supported."
"i don't like the whole idea of using cloaks of capital ships. there's something wrong with the idea of titan or supercarrier being able to go invisible without sacrificing anything significantwhy not disable standard cloak for caps, give them another module, with higher fitting requirements and cap recharge penalty."
"you dont get cap regen while offline"
"because that involves creating a new module, which would mean testing and adding stuff to market and a whole lot more. so why do that when this simple change does that already. if you like the idea of the change, then please give a thumbs up."
"you're an idiot. this is not an afk cloaker thread.learn to read.op, supported."
"because your solution is meant to target specific ship class, which is about 0.01% of eve, and the other 99.99% are stuck with unintended consequences.unless you can justify with the rest of eve population needs this cap penalty, it'd be more reasonable to single out your target ship class and make solution just for them."
"two things.a lot of people get around not appearing at the cyno when jumping in their super capital by timing the opening of the cyno with a self destruct of the ship. players wait till just a few seconds before their throw away cyno ship is about to self destruct, light the cyno and hit the jump with their super capital. so before the super loads the system, the cyno ship has exploded and they appear in some random safe spot in system, totally 100% safe and they can simply cloak up immediately.super capital owners have been using this tactic to sneak into systems, run level 5 missions among other things. all to avoid possibly being caught.i say that if you light a cyno, any self destruct timer you have going is immediately cancelled."
"why not make it more interesting? if the cyno ship gets destroyed during jump, simply throw the jumping ship into a random system within their jump range"
"i support this, but what the poster above me stated would be much more fun!"
"i support this idea more."
"ill support both ideas and add to it that the jumping ship should take damage!"
"oh hell yeah"
"i support both"
"can get behind that!"
"it's no random spot in system. from what i have seen and tested it's always the same spot.so get some cloaky dictors there and bubble the sucker the next time he does it...edit: supported though as this could be called an exploit imo"
"i like both proposals. the random system is great it would allow to defend against hot dropping. maybe add 30 second heat up time for the cyno as well."
"this does sound bad.the whole cyno system should be redesigned. teleportation should not be instant."
"ahem - if it isn't instant, it hardly counts as teleportation, now, does it? that aside, there are plenty of other delays already built into the system - waiting for cap recharge, getting cynos into place etc - why add another one at this point?"
"i like this but what it does is still put the ship that jumped into a safe setting. perhaps with any upcoming cyno changes ccp does they can do something like this. i am just asking for a (hopefully simple) coding change to have the cyno cancel the self destruct."
"there are other threads discussing problem with current cyno mechanics. the fact that it takes ships only 3-5 seconds to appear after cyno is lit, with no prior warning and no way to scout the incoming forces introduces large random factor into combat. large random factors are bad for strategy and tactics.so the changes are needed to make pvp better. and the op's problem is related to the larger problem of cynos."
"im not sure what you would hope to practically accomplish with this. im not inherently opposed to the idea but unless you are already prepared to catch the super at the cyno anyway (and the super pilot doesnt know this and goes in), this is a fairly moot point. if you want to know where a super is logged at, run a locater agent on the pilot."
"this is just another lame proposal to take sand out of the sandbox. sounds like some poor little ex-tri mk xxiii or xxiv missed out on a super cap kill. go cry somewhere else!"
"i will afflict you, but the reality is that:even in a bras, the boobs moves and jumps up at run and fast walking a little.the more the size of boobs, the is more difficult to constrain their driving to a brassiere.do not move while walking or runing - only steel, wooden, plastic, cardboard or stone boobs."
"i really wonder how all of you type these responses with only one hand on the keyboard!"
"bouncy boobies!as for 'destroying the company' there is no way. bouncy boobs have been a feature of many games, including neverwinter nights, and even the sims"
"bump.btw i think i have a solution to the balster and gallente problem. i start training minmater!"
"you'll get back for your bucks faster training other thing than wait something from ccp about this issue, 2009 people already sayin and nothing donne since so i'm glad i've not spent a second training advanced skils of that **** that are blasters.they just don't know how to fix it, and not ready to change this since they are incapable to find where the problem comes from. easyer to say: train something else, just a few months subscription thrown by the window because of someones incompetence in this matter.this issue exists now for years, if they can't see it just stop recruiting blind dev's"
"you know what's bad? when you are about to get to optimal and some ships suddenly blocks your way and bumps you 15km off target. then you have to basically start all over again. just peachy.railguns are just plain bad. an absolute waste."
"gallente ships don't need to be the fastest, they just need to be fast enough so that a gallente ship fitting two or three overdrive injectors can eventually catch a minmatar ship fitting two nanofibers of equivalent size. yeah the stabber and vaga won't be caught (they have bonuses to speed), but an three overdrive injector fitted myrm should be able to catch a two nanofiber fitted hurricane. as it is right now, no amount of additional speed fitting mods will allow a myrm (or brutix) to catch a hurricane (or cyclone) with two nanofibers.next, the fiting requirements of either gallente weapons need to be decreased or the pg/cpu of gallente ships need to be increased so that some fitting slots can be freed up."
"how are you going to bridge without bridges? you can't remove bridges and then argue that people can just bridge their stuff in."
"jump freighters will be unaffected. and then there are titan bridges.i was once roaming delve and seen how bob titan was bridging 8 freighters. dunno what they were hauling.anyway, it'd be silly to argue that logistics would remain easy. no, the main idea behind removing jump bridges is to make logistics harder - more dangerous. so alliance people only develop and maintain systems they really care about. so people actually use star gates in 0.0 and risk pvp. you may worry about your alliance becoming more vulnerable, but don't forget that your enemies will have exact same problems."
"i agree. frankly, i'm half way to suggesting that ccp produce an 'in-game' bot creation program, and use it as a legal way for players to bot (ie the same general idea behind isk selling and plexes. ccp gets extra cash, and players can 'buy' isk.) that way ccp can add restrictions to bots (like limiting how many rigs a botted ship can use)."
"never mind bridging.. where do you think you're going to get those high-end minerals; without someone doing a little mining in 0.0? i realize some of you may do all your shopping in jita 4-4; but someone, has to do the mining in 0.0. it doesn't get there otherwise. morphite? megacyte? zydrine? does all this stuff just come from refined modules? ..or maybe, it's entirely supplied by wormhole-based corporations these days? you do realize, the only thing you can get in high sec; is the cheap stuff, in great quantity. everything else, has to come from 0.0, or lowsec; and lowsec, isn't that profitable, practical, or even capable of supplying half of it.i had someone reply with similar logic to one of my earlier posts; and, though i thought about it, i didn't say anything at the time. the truth is, you just don't find arkonor, bistot, crokite, or the like, anywhere else; save those good grav spawns in wormholes. trust me, those are generally quite rare; so, it's coming out of nullsec, without question. what wormholers supply in jita 4-4, and other local markets; isn't nearly enough to cover the half of it.back to bridging..don't get rid of it! just change it, modify it, nerf it! it's too powerful as it is; that's been well and truly established. ccp thinks so, csm--for whatever reason--thinks so; and many of the player base here thinks so. this belief is evidently so strong; that many of us believe they should get rid of it entirely. i don't. jump bridging add's an interesting element to the game; as do many similar means of travel, currently in place. with the removal of these devices, effects, and abilities; eve takes a step backward, and ceases it's forward momentum. they are a valid, and fully defineable technology; they just perhap's, work a little better than they should.analyze the situation, and effect the jump bridges have on the game; and work out a reasonable solution, to make them less effective.what you all should be doing, is deciding what you would like to see changed about jump bridging; not arguing, debating, and sidetracking around the issue, while trying to convince others why they should go, or stay. limiting systems with highly developed infrastructures from there use; as previously mentioned, is not what should be happening. there's an error in logic there. rather, those systems, as developed as they are; should be the ones able to construct and use jump bridges. these are going to be core systems, correct? what place more effective, and effectively capable; to place a jump bridge in, while allowing you to move from core systems, to the edges of your empire? this is how it should be. what is there, to say that you should be able to jump beyond your borders? and, if you have smaller infrastructures out beyond even them; claiming space, outside of your own effective territory, in no man's land; why should you be able to jump to them? they are colonies, of a sort; seperated, and far from protected borders.."
"basically, there are 2 important goals that need to be achieved to make eve a better war game:1) make logistics operations vulnerable to raids. as it is now, it's too safe, almost impossible to disrupt any alliance logistics, short of mega blob camping 23/7.ability to hit enemy logistics would add new dimension to strategic and tactical aspects of eve warfare2) sub-capital ships should be more vulnerable to raids in 0.0, that is done by forcing more people to use stargate travel instead of highly protected jump bridges. stargates have always been the main catalyst of casual pvp. both camping and roaming relies heavily on stargate dynamics.both of these goals promote pvp on smaller scale, while slightly discouraging mega blob pvp and lazy carebearism. i believe these goals are worth pursuing even if it means that certain percentage of eve players will leave 0.0most will stay and adapt, just like they did during first years of eve."
"honestly, i'm more worried about not getting any pvp without flying a gazillion jumps to find it. i also do not want to have to babysit miners/haulers for the majority of the time i'm on."
"nobody has to mine highmins. the drone regions made mining unprofitable. just import the stuff, they're not bulky and can be brought in with a few blockade runners easily.acquiring the bulky minerals is the bottleneck. nobody is going to mine veld in 0.0, because it is not competitive compared to just shipping built ships and mods from empire.there was plenty of pvp without bridge networks. much more gate traffic leads to more roamings leads to more home defence gangs. a bigger eve will in the long run return to more smaller alliances holding space. this however will take a long time to develop.all in all there needs to be a complete rethink of 0.0 from an industrial and empire building standpoint to support autonomous self sustained operations."
"why not take my initial idea, a little further; by adding in the requirement of jump bridge relays. these relay's, would be required to be placed at gates along the jump bridge route; and would require fueling, while being susceptiblee to attack. they would be designed in a similar fashion to small pos'; and require isotopes as their primary fuel source, with the addition of jump assisting fuel requirements. they could of course, only be placed in the alliances sovereign territory; and along a pre-existing stargate route. a simple means to make a voyage along a known route, faster; while limiting their use, to sovereign space, within alliance controlled territory.further, they would be limited to infrastructure level 2 or higher systems; due to anchoring limitations, and consume fuel with every use. they might even be made more capable, in a small fashion; by allowing jumps to be made, short of the final destination. for example, a series of jump relays exists in 10 systems; leading out of the central core of alliance controlled territory. a pilot intends to travel along this route; but only intends on making the jump to five systems out. there is a small pos there, which he maintains and uses for moon harvesting arrays; and he needs to check the cycles, while making a trip out to highsec. engaging his jump drive, he sets it for the desired system, along route; and makes the jump from the jump bridge, at the controlling pos. some thrity seconds later, he is in system; and on his way, from the gate there, to his pos. the arrival location, would of course be at the jump relay; in the system he set as his destination.fuel used in relaying the jump bridge, would be based on mass of vessels using the bridge; and would of course, be limited in overall mass, to an amount determined by it's upgrade level. available use of jump bridges would also have to be based on corporation roles; similar to starbase configuration and fueling roles, used for pos'. all corporations within an alliance; would have the ability to designate this role. a jump relay station; would be able to hold an amount of fuel for relaying; equivalent to 3x maximum mass, of the highest upgrade of jump bridge available. this would prevent more than three maximum mass jump bridges along a given route; and only then, providing all jump relays, had the required fuel to do so. any shortage of fuel, would either drop ships along the route; or cause the collapse of the jump bridge, once any individual jump relay, exceeded it's fuel requirements.jump relays, to add some flavour, would also flash with each jump initiated; at every point along the route, with a pulsating frequency indicating the mass of the jump. a single small ship through, would cause no more than a single, faint pulse; while a dozen ships of bc size or smaller, would expand to a series of brighter pulses, intermixed with fainter ones. essentially, this would allow others to see when a jump bridge is in use, and passing through the system they are in; while the destination system, would--additionally--have a single strobing light, indicating it as the final point along the jump route.obviously, it's likely to be easier; to collapse a jump bridge, than drop ships on route. i would also think a timer, between jumps would be a definite moderator; in that it would prevent blob jumping. the greater the mass of the last ship; the longer the timer between it, and the next jump. doing this would allow for reduced server lag resulting from use of jump bridges; and increase the requirement for fleet planning. it's good on both sides; and stops the blob, at least initially."
"how many of you fanboi supporters have actually run 0.0 logistics? take yourself out into 0.0 and run logistics for an alliance for a couple months. then i will listen to your opinions. otherwise you have literally no idea what you are talking about. and re-not-smart-ed"
"jump bridges should really only go from system to system instead of leap-frogging them. that way you keep the number of jumps while giving another entrance for an alliance, so they can avoid using the stargates."
"no to removing jump bridges. plenty of people have detailed why jb's should not be removed. that's good enough for me. so thumbs down from me."
"this might just be the most horrible idea ccp and the csm have come up with as a group. you want to deploy to the front? just stage a moving op that takes a week or so and an entire coalition can have its caps, subcaps and supercaps moved to a lowsec/npc nullsec staging system within short range of their targets. get one of your pos's/sov structures attacked? just rally a fleet for the timer. yah, it may take half an hour for some folks to make the trip down (zomg, the coalitions are now shattered!)ccp provided an environment where people could choose to cooperate or fight as they saw fit, and many have chosen to form regional cooperation pacts so that they can be fairly safe at home, and can go roadtrip if they want to attack people somewhere else. so in response to people using game mechanics functioning as intended, to do things 100% allowed within a sandbox political/military environment, the response seems to be \"no, you are sandboxing wrong!\" jump bridges aren't a problem. \"force projection\" isn't even really a problem either. human nature and the fact that people will cooperate to achieve mutual goals seems to be the 'problem'. if ccp wants a game where power blocs won't form and imbalance things, they need to set up sharded servers with instanced objectives and fixed-man raids. but short of wowing, eve will remain eve. there were coalitions and \"blobs\" before jb's and supercaps, there will be coalitions and \"blobs\" after, too."
"who let this guy in?why does everyone want to make things harder? from what i can make of it, certain people don't like groups of players getting places fast. i say so what. just because your enemy can catch up to you by using jb's isn't a reason why you should remove them. plus you got to think of the times it takes to get people in fleets and form up to attack you. and i'm sure if you were the ones about to attack the enemy, you wouldnt hesitate to use a jb yourself.plus jb's are not risk free. lots of people get killed on those things. jumping through and not knowing exactly what's in the next system is totally risky. sure there are intel channels where you could probably find out what the system is like but that doesn't mean that all the intel is correct or not. i've had to jump blindly into a system using a jb myself on more than one occasion. so jb's are not riskfree. they can be just like stargates and people really have no problem camping them as well as regular stargates."
"[facepalm] read greyscale comments and the csm minutes. it is not \"only jb will be nerfed\". it they go this route every jump capable ships will be nerfed, included the titan bridges and maybe even the freighters. npc products across regions. old story. it was nerfed years ago. so you are silly."
"the concept that the csm would actually go along with removing jbs is disturbing to say the least. i would not be surprised to see, and would encourage a \"no confidence\" proposal relatively soon."
"i'd like to keep jump bridges.if they're removed, it will increase small scale ganking fleet in 0.0 and reduce large scale fleet fights.then question is, what's the point still staying in 0.0 and have pew pew fun ??just stay in high sec do war dec or faction warfare, which you already have. if you're telling me 0.0 is where make ppl rich so you'll fight hard for it, i'll tell you that's half true and half bs. most moon income goes directly into alliance leaders' wallet, i can make more in high sec than in 0.0 by myself. i would say only people like this idea are the ones never really pvped in 0.0 or some rich alliance leaders want more small pvp fun without giving up their moon income."
"qft0.0 without jbs is very much like highsec without concord. that is, highsec without concord that is much more spread out with many fewer stations / poss to hide in when things look bad.make that highsec without concord that is much more spread out with many fewer stations / poss to hide in when things look bad with npc rats that (rarely) do attempt to warpscram the solo freighter (yes - a really bad idea, but it happens).very bad idea.please leave the discussion of jbs to those that use them and we will leave the discussions about faction warfare / level 4 missions to those that live in highsec.thank you!"
"i think getting rid of jump bridges is a great step in the direction this game should go: tactical and strategical. right now there is no risk with logistics, this should change. alliances have a lot of room they don't use, this should change.balancing the bridges via cost did not work as they are everywhere now, and there is no reasonable way to keep them. super highways that take you all the way from one end of the game to the other in minutes with no risk and or effort should be gone.if the argument to keep them is logistics then make it so that only advances freighters can jump. but this is no argument for every ship in the game being able to do it.at this time, 0.0 is easier, more comfortable, safer, and more profitable than high sec. this should change. i do not think it was the intent of ccp that every system would be part of a bridge network linking everywhere with everywhere.i find it hilarious to see that the people defending bridges mention the non existing small alliances which don't exist because moving a thousand ships is trivial. this should not be so. moving your ships should be a commitment and open avenues for attack. attrition and blockades should be possible. there should be tactics and strategy involved in 0.0.at the end of the day if you want to blue everyone so be it, but it shouldn't be ccp's interest to coddle the existing 0.0 power blocks or to ensure their existence. fleet warfare existed before bridges and will exist after.seriously what happened to htfu, 0.0 is by far the softest area in eve at the moment. what happened with \"eve shouldn't be easy\" and \"gbtwow\"?bridges must go."
"people who haven't played eve before jump bridges were introduces cannot be taken seriously on their \"predictions\" of what would happen.we already know exactly what would happen. most of the devs will remember it personally. it was no doomsday scenario. the game was growing quickly, 0.0 was populated. there was plenty of traffic. we know for a fact that eve will do just fine.what it comes do is this:some people want eve to be more carebear friendly - even in 0.0others want eve to be more hardcore pvp - especially in 0.0it just so happens that i like hardcore pvp. and i can understand the carebear perspective, i don't mind it so much if you openly say that is what you want. i just can't stand the hypocrites who push carebear ideals while arguing that not doing so is \"bad for pvp\""
"players that use what was working/not working when there was an average of 20.000 players on line as a meter of paragon for what will work with an average of 50.000+ players on line \"cannot be taken seriously on their \"predictions\" of what would happen\".it cur both way ephe. eve has changed, the capability to compress stuff has been nerfed, the request for minerals have been increased, mineral heavy rats drops have been removed (barrign drones), drones regions have been added, and so on and so on at infinitum. you are like a guy saying \"in 1950 we were capable of living with a car every 8 persons, so we can do it even today\". not without changing so much things that we will be living in a \"future\" of 1950, not of 2011. past in the days it was possible to get compression rates of over 250:1 and was possible to put 3 dreadnought guns on a frigate and move it to 0.0. you call jb an easy way to do logistic? how much stuff was possible to move with one of those frigates? how much with a carrier full of those?you simply recall a time when you were younger and the game was simpler as a golden age that never existed."
"no there was no golden age it was fun same 0.0 with escort ops. i don't get how lazy people got you got carriers you got jump freighters titan bridges undetectable covert ops black ops transport and t3 choices. and you still whine.i would keep cyno beacons so you don't have to have alts everywhere but what more do you need"
"yes because there are so many jump bridges littered throughout low sec."
"i believe the goal of a game designer is to make more players happy when playing the game.no doubt the \"hard core pvp elites\" will get more fun if it is removed while someone else(regular players not that hard core??) will lose some fun because life is becoming harder.the question is, which side has more players??if someone really love doing smaller scale pvp and hate blobs, there're already plenty of opportunity in game. why are you still staying or care about staying in 0.0.personally, i love blob fights. eve is the only game can get 2000+ players staying at same place and shooting at each other. so why trying so hard to take big fleet fights away??it's better to make 1000 players feel happy after shooting down one titan than 30 \"elite\" supercap pilots insta pop three titans."
"good thing i pointed out that your hangar will remain as safe as it's always been, eh, eh? really dodged a bullet there. ahh, with bonus 'i hate pirates!' rant. this isn't about easy targets, or targets of any kind. this is about adding content to a massive expansion that's currently only slated for space barbie and, perhaps, fable style bar mini-games."
"best idea bout incarna i heard so far... and please make it so that u can gang up and jet the carebears from* the nearest airlock."
"bump. still waiting for ccp to respond/apologise.also thanks to all those who have supported this issue."
"don't like to have more accounts :s"
"or you could simple have the option to que the over heat so that when you do uncloak it starts up for you."
"supported."
"surealthough the entire overheating interface is terrible and has been the subject of numerous csm proposals to fix it.not as important as space barbie, though. maybe in a couple years, if you're still playing, they'll think about it."
"agreed.it's a damn toggle switch! how difficult to give it a flick while you're cloaked?also, introduce high/mid/low slot 'thermal capacitors' that do nothing but soak up excess heat so you can sacrifice a slot to overheat somewhat longer (+20% base t1, +45% t2, with meta variants)."
"i could see such a concept working and i would in fact be temped to support it if there was also a new mechanic to allow more control of warping on grid.one of the primary functions of the fleet structure is it provides the fleet commanders movement and positioning control. there is always within the fleet structure a few pilots dedicated to providing the positioning points for the combat ships. this is by far the greatest tactical work of the fleet commander is just positioning.the issue in game at the moment is that the only methods to move a fleet coherently is to use another fleet member to warp to.your proposition while interesting would simply multiply pilots needed for this basic task.what would be required before adopting a point system to enforce multiple fleets (which could be coupled with gang bonuses grid specific) is a basic navigation mechanism to allow \"free warp\" in space.imho the 3 basic navigation functions needed would be:1.) coordinate input and display.2.) homeworld navigation control for warp and creation of bm (both in macro and solar system view)3.) broadcast and viewable in space bookmarks. (fc only broadcast to fleet)i might look at elaborating this idea in a separate post."
"simply not allowing a fleet to exceed the leadership skills of the boss would do wonders as well."
"if something is more difficult, it's more challenging. if it's more challenging, it's more interesting to make it work.so, basically, you achieved nothing, because established large alliances will eventually successfully deploy huge fleets and due to increased difficulty of making a huge fleet, smaller entities will be even more defenceless against blobs.all kinds of other misc stuff pops up by drastically limiting the fleet size:- sov warfare- capital warfare- supercapital warfare- ccp losing a marketing strategy (\"epic\" fleet battles not seen in any other mmo)...besides, an option is already given - wormhole space limited by the amount of ships that can come through before the entry wormhole collapses. not to mention that living in a wormhole space is much more profitable and challenging than living in nullsec.however, i'm not for keeping the blobs in the current form, so i'll be neutral on this suggestion."
"as a new player i have found the limited keybinds available in eve to be quite restrictive and frustrating. the fact that most keys are unable to be used as keybinds for ship actions (such as releasing drones, aligning, turning on and off modules etc.) prohibits more fluid game play.i propose that all keys are opened to be bound at the players discretion without the use of alt, shift, crtl etc. being needed. chat windows will only respond to text input when the player clicks on the text input part of the window and will cease to respond when the player clicks on some other part of the ui or in space. alternatively, chat windows could be activated by pressing some key (i.e. enter) and deactivated in the same way.for those of you who are happy with the current keybind system, i would definitely encourage you to support this proposal all the same: your keybinds can remain exactly how you like them while allowing greater flexibility for those who don't!"
"read the patch notes, your a little bit late!!pretty sure this was in the last release!(by the way, this made me laugh really hard)"
"ccp plz let me hump people in incarna.. /hump the nearest chick"
"a button would b nice too.. mayb another button to flash ur boobies??"
"boobbbsssss"
"great idea - i want my own sex shop"
"would be funny"
"oh yeee... lets party inda pleasure hub!!"
"support, but only in 0.0 and low sec stations"
"totally supported, especially when the player is colorblind or has some weakness in seeing colors (yes, i do) it's a real bugger!but that also meets for other ui interface items."
"support!the problem arises at usage of 15 (x1r5g5b5) and 16-bit (r5g6b5) color depth and/or 16bit depth buffer.all moving boxes which are below an ecliptic plane - become too dark, and being above - remain white.16bit depth we use for minimize lags on low client-machines.p.s.in 32bit colors all is looking good."
"honestly we should all be filing bug reports about this.this is a serious problem. every time i'm trying to scan something i need to move all my camera down, then my probes up above the grid just to see what i'm clicking on. then move them around, then back down... its pretty silly."
"everyone yay for gankin in stations. and use sommet similar to the dust engine plz ccp :d"
"after incarna is out?be careful with what you ask for, incarna may only be released in 2 years time!"
"the old highway system made eve too small.it's same problem as we have with jump bridges now. even without the empire highway system, it takes me just 1 hour to travel from deep end of venal in deep end of delve. if it took me just half an hour to travel from one end of the map to another, it'd be pretty ridiculous.people in eve are getting too damn lazy. already in 0.0 most people won't bother chasing hostiles if they are 10+ jumps away. they say 10 jumps is too far. these people need to be griefed mercilessly, until they quit or adapt.no superhighways, no jump bridges, nerf cynos."
"more systemsmore low secmore null secmove empires apart and put low sec in between (no high sec connections between empires)"
"i'm for a return to yulai. frankly the calls to move empires even further apart sound more like 'i want ccp to funnel easy target right into my crosshairs because i'm too lazy to work for my kills'. yulai back then was no worse then jita is now, and this way everyone is more or less equidistant from the major market hub rather then having to pend twenty jumps getting there."
"that"
"i like his idea. this will make fleet looks better. like in all the trailers, we need the fleet fly in some kind of formation rather than a big ball.i would suggest this space limit only work on ships in same fleet, otherwise it's fun to watch jita 4-4 undock.make the space wide enough that only allow 2 battleship squads warp to stargate within jump range at same time.i know ccp tried to make squad/wind concept to work, this is a good solution to solve the problem."
"nothing ccp does now, in the future, and by example in the past will ever, ever counteract the basic human nature to blob. force wins, and numbers are force, even when they are not visible. 5 of you, 10 of them, you leave... even if they're only in shuttles 55au away.ccp never intended titans to blob, or supercarriers, but they did. they introduced the dd to combat blobs, but it became a blob weapon in its own right.if they take one action to limit blobs people will just find another way to blob. if they are prevented from blobbing they'll just quit."
"this is inspired by real world submarines and the systems used to hunt them, i believe i have found a way to not only keep the much loved cloaked hostiles (ie. afk cloakers) but at the same make them partially vulnerable (dependent on actions).cloaked ships are undetectable, much like submarines, until they themselves emit a signal:- if a cloaked ship uses scanner or communicates with drones they can be probed as normal (still invisible though) for 20 seconds.new item (bomb): tactical anti-matter charge.shares launch characteristics with regular bombs. small anti-matter detonation creates a wide area shock wave meant do destabilize cloaking fields.explosion radius: 50km, +10%/ship level (debatable, up to 100km maybe)damage: negligible (1 point, enough to decloak no more).result: afk cloakers can still exist but if they are there to gather intel by scanning/probing they must keep moving in case a hunting party is dispatched after them.warping between safes, fitting lowslot (ie. passive) eccm and generally never standing still (or not pinging ) should be sufficient to avoid being \"caught\", so the lazy/careless take a hit leaving everyone else to their devices."
"so an afk cloaker is unaffected except when he clicks directional scanner, but why would he do that if hes afk? the idea behind afk cloaking is to intimidate people out of using a system, or having them comfortable with seeing you there and going about their business until you are ready to pounce. there is no way to tell when a good afk cloaker gets back to his comp, so you would have to be probing for signals constantly to try and find one, or just ignore him as it is now. this is no solution.you are also forgetting the impact this would have on supercaps and other such ships. i do not want to sit in a safe blind in my aeon and be unable to directional to find out if dictors or probes are on scan, let alone being unable to start to align off because my engines will attract the probes im hiding from.i also see this changing gate camping mechanics considerably (in 0.0 where bubbles give people a chance to catch competent cloakies) within skilled roams, an alt bomber with a decloaking bomb could sit 15km off gates, wait for a cloaked ship to jump in, and bomb if your guys cant decloak it immediately. thats not necessarily a bad change because it requires planning and skill, but it would take the power away from the cloaked 'blockade runner' in the first place which is also a change that we may not necessarily want to make."
"actual afk cloakers will be unaffected as i already stated, it only changes things when using cloaking to gather intel with impunity .. it is not meant as a solution to afk'ers, could quite frankly care less about them if you are isolated in a supercap and under cloak you must have messed up pretty badly. natural selection dictates that an error of that magnitude be punished clarification: only pinging, either with scanner or contacting probes will allow for probing. movement is unaffected which is why mentioned that an intel gatherer should keep moving as long as he is scanning to minimize risk.the timing needed to do what you suggest in regards to gate camps is out of this world. consider bomb travel time plus that a mwd+cloak runner doesn't have to wait for 30s but can move at any time he pleases and the chances of detonating in the split second after cloak engages but before warp initiates becomes astronomical .. theoretically possible, but highly unlikely."
"honestly i feel that you're trapped in a couple incorrect pre-conceived notions.the first is that supers operating isolated are somehow doing it wrong. i would instead point you to the many killboards, my alt's included, where solo or small gangs or supers can take out enemy high value targets on mid point pos and cyno generators. indeed the new cyno on pos nerf makes it much easier to do this. after ganking a hostile cap, retreating to a safespot to cloak and cap up is standard procedure, not the 'oh crap i messed up goggogogo' solution.the second is the idea that cloakies get away instantly when bubbles are factored in. assuming they don't gate crash, and are caught in a bubble or subsequent bubbles dropped by smart dictor pilots in standard double bubble fits, there is ample time after they decloak and the hunt begins to launch a bomb and decloak the gate grid. in lowsec it would be impossible, in nullsec it is far more game changing."
"the fact that super-caps (sc's in particular) can actually function without any sort of support is part of the broken aspect of them that is one the hottest topics at present.i am not going to let broken ships and mechanics stand in the way of solving issues that are not even directly related to them .. if it was up to me supers would not even be able to use cloaks a camp that is that well organized and manned should be hard as hell or even impossible to evade, the fact that it is currently \"relatively easy\" is just a sad part of life with no easy fix. ccp did try with the \"mwd-cycle-end-on-cloak\" but it wasn't enough just tightened the needed timing a bit."
"this is not a direct nerf to supercaps, but eve is a complex game and you cant argue that one small change may not affect others. if you desire to nerf supercaps you may as well just come out and admit that :phowever to restate my earlier point in a bit clearer tl;dr way, i don't think this change would solve anything that you are trying to fix; and as an aside i disagree vehemently with your attitude towards super caps but ill let that slide so as not to derail the topic any further <3"
"also making an undetectable gate came impossible avoid in my opinion would be generating a broken mechanic, not eliminating one. if what you suggest should come to be then the gate should broad cast the current state of events of its sister gate to any traveler coming to it, which i am sure you would be most disagreeable with."
"i propose that ccp at earliest possible convenience gives us a fixed ammount of opportunities, within a given time period (say, 3 times within the first month of creating the first new portrait), to redo our character portraits.following the general discussion threads, people have reported problems with, and being dissatisified with their new looks. i know it is a cosmetic issue, and i am aware that it could mean some server strain, but please ccp, it would give ease of mind to many, many players.thanks in advance!edit: i wrote this from the perspective of us older players who had portraits prior to incursion, but the same grace period should of course be given for new players as well.edit2: this is not a whine thread, and it is not an attack on ccp or the new character creator. the proposal is simply aimed to allow players a grace period to redo their portraits, as a part of the game. as it is, you have to petition a gm in order to get a redo. making this a part of the game will take a lot of pressure of the gms, and allow them to focus on more important tasks, while at the same time saving players angst over portraits that did not turn out to their satisfaction."
"agreed"
"supporting my own proposal, naturally."
"well i support this too. better still, i want my old face back."
"i support this fully as well.a lot of players (myself included) will be bound to make trial and error mistakes and i believe we deserve a second opportunity to correct any errors we've made during the character creation process."
"absolutely.it way way too easy to make a halfwit with your first try. but it's as easy to do the same the second time if you can't continue where you left.i've been doing almost a hundred different characters during the beta and more than a few times the next day i go over the screenshots i see a lot of room for improvement. it's like asking da vinci to paint mona lisa in one hour..."
"agreed, my character looked fine initially from the view in the portrait creator, but certain details became more pronounced in the smaller version and now i'm not happy with the final product."
"suggest reading around before you jump on the bandwagon"
"saw it long after. having to file a petition only puts more strain on the gms though, hence the proposal to make it a part of the game."
"because ccp are totally able to make a patch that allows this, take the server down and release it at peak."
"add this and give us tatoos"
"it should not require any drastic change to the server side at all, at least nothing that requires more than a simple (even optional) patch, and regular dt deployment."
"it shouldn't be that hard to implement this during downtime. takes a lot of strain of customer support if they did this"
"/signedccp should add a feature to the editor that once you defined the main look and shape of your character you can reload it - e.g. every 30 days - and change the posing, eventually clothes, hair style based on your original hair and other features to change your fashion style or secondary stuff not affecting the main anatomy ... plus capture a new portrait. this would give ccp the freedom to add more assets to the editor over the time and we are able to use it. the new editor took so much time to create, so why waste it for one time only and not using it again with limitations? for incarna it just makes sense anyway.actually i see a major problem that all the new chars look great and real. but that's not enough. compared to the old toons they look too much like ordinary human beeings than \"eve alien\".check this and you know what i mean!"
"it has been suggested plenty of times in the last months.we need the possibility to redo our portrait and the possibility to save a work in progress."
"i was initially under impression that each of the four snapshots will be randomly used at each log-on. the way the final stage of the character creator is set up is a little ambiguous and lacks clear instructions. as someone has already mentioned, putting this process through the petition system will put alot more strain on the gms."
"agreed. it is was ridiculously unclear whether we would be allowed to have a redo."
"1.0"
"/signed"
"bah, how about making ccp re-do their char creator instead straight away? not like this one is the shining pinnacle of current technology..."
"supported.... the fact there's a time lag to have the system \"catch up\" would be fair enough of a trade off.i don't see why they can't allow you to \"edit\" your profile at-will."
"even though my avatar is perfect for me, i will agree. like i said in other threads:\"ccp should have clearly indicated that the 4 photos were to compare not to switch around ingame. plus should add a \"are u sure warning box\" before hitting the save button. =)\"this will solve alot of problem and reduce avatar related petitions, i know they are gonna be very busy with the petition system this week. xd"
"holy bump!"
"1.0"
"altho to me all this arty stuff seems like a waste of time, i agree that it would make the game better."
"uhm... i think you got it all wrong. corp mails are not in a \"corp mailing list\", but rather have \"corp\" tag attached to it (different implementation technology). besides, you can use bulletins for a welcome message. edit: a solution would be to be able to edit default welcome mail a character gets when he joins a corp. so, yeah... it's possible and supported."
"yeah all i want is some automatic editable message for all new corp members. either a welcome mail, or why not in the answer to the application? corp bulletins are nice and all, but it's not like they jump out and try to be noticed, no they are hidden deep within the corp interface that normal members never ever use. in fact what i want to have in the welcome message is an instruction for how to actually find the bulletins when i think of it it sounds more like a problem with the bulletins than anything else"
"supported if you mean to add a motd to the corp/alliance channel by ceo, and a default corp mail sent out when you first join a corp."
"yes that's exactly what i'm meaning."
"mining is an extremely dull and unchallenging profession. and because it requires sitting still in one spot for long periods, it's also, uniquely, boring and dangerous. consequently, as a profession it has been almost completely over-run with bots. lots of people want lots of minerals, but they sure as hell don't want to stare at rocks for hours while they mine them. it's an open secret that the mineral economy of eve is pretty much dependent on bot product, particularly the low-end minerals.on the other hand, quite a few players do genuinely like being involved in the resource gathering/item production side of eve, so i really don't want to see those people disenfranchised by giving in to locust-swarms of bots on the one hand or by cutting the gordian knot and returning to reprocessing npc items on the other. so: how to reconcile making human players competitive with bots, whilst maintaining a player economy, whilst keeping resource gathering as a gameplay option?well the core idea of my proposal is this. it's a pretty drastic change to what we have now, but read the whole thing before you flip out, because some of the implications will need a little thinking about.i propose that we get rid of mining barges. yeah, that's right. no more retrievers, no more hulks, no more mackinaws. burn them all. that means no more strip miners either. we are however keeping the orca and the rorqual.to replace them, we introduce a deployable anchorable mining module (or rather a range of them with varying characteristics - see below). the damm can mine asteroids out to a certain range, up to say 15 or 18km, and every few minutes, it sends out a hauling drone to deposit the ore at either a station, a corp hangar at a pos or in the ore bay of an orca or rorqual. the hauler drones autopilot to the destination at back, which means they warp at 15km, then slowboat in.i propose a range of damms roughly equivalent to the current mining barge range, starting with the lowest tier or tech 1, which has a fairly shot range and low yield, and simply mines the nearest asteroid until it is depleted, then the next and so on until all the rocks in range are gone, after which it simply stops. at the highest level, the damm can use mining crystals, and can be set to mine ore types in order of preference. and of course the best damms produce the most yield and have the best range, meaning that they will produce more ore and need moving less often.damms will be freely attackable, even in hi-sec. they're pretty tough, about as tough as a gsc, so it will take considerable and concerted effort to destroy one. on being attacked, a damm alerts its owner, so you can go do something about it. the hauler drones will also be attackable and they'll be rather easier to destroy. luckily, they're simple, flimsy things and a damm can just make another one if its drone gets destroyed, but of course any ore it was carrying will be lost. so this means that damms can be either destroyed or have their flow of ore interdicted. a neglected damm in a busy area is not likely to produce much ore for its owner.attacking a damm or a hauler drone naturally means that you are aggro'd to the owner's corp, so if flipper o'can starts to interfere with your property you can go and do something about it.each miner can anchor a maximum of 5 damms. 1 tech 1 damm can be anchored for every level of \"mining barge\" skill and 1 tech 2 damm can be anchored for every level of \"exhumers\". the miner can anchor his 5 damms anywhere he likes.the astrogeology skill will continue to give a yield bonus to dammsdamms must be anchored at least 5000m apart, but other than that, there is no restriction on how many can be placed in a belt.damms cannot be anchored in 1.0 systems.we're keeping the standard mining modules, so new players can still mine in ospreys and such, and gas mining stays unchanged.comments & suggestions please."
"i've deliberately left specific yield numbers and other specifications vague - that's something for the balance team to consider.the important thing is that the worst parts of mining (shooting stationary rocks and hauling rocks) are now automated, and the best gameplay parts (finding the ore, choosing the best spots, etc) are left in."
"on the first day, every single belt would be completely jammed of mining structures.do remember there are people with trillions of isks out there. these people could entirely monopolize mineral market and drive everyone else out of business unless there is a limit to how many damm can operated by each character.and if the only way to get rid of these things in high-sec is war declaration, i can see small mining corp driven out of business by alliances because they simply wouldn't be able to afford the wardecs.i think automating mining barges might work better. give mining barges an auto-mine option, which causes the barge will continue to operate after the player logs off. the best way to kill bot is to provide better built-in options."
"damm?????seriously?you call that a troll?pathetic."
"p sure you missed that part where i said max 5 per character.nope, i said freely attackable.the whole point is to stop mining being so boring and focus on actual gameplay instead. a mechanic which encourages people to log off doesn't meet that criteria. nor does it sound very safe for the miner stuck in space. i'm going to go ahead and say that's a really bad idea."
"supported. if early 21st century people can make bot-like programs to mine for them, then why can't super-far-into-the-future people make automining spaceships?"
"the main point that i belive he was trying to make is that every bot user and his great great grandpa would have 15 of these mining platforms ( 3 chars per account) deployed to cover a whole system ( multipal accounts) and come 2-3 hours after downtime there wouldnt be a spec of space rock left. the unfortunat problem with implementing a deploy and profit idea is that it \"sanctions\" bot users by giving them a legal way to drop tritanium prices to .05 isk a unit. at the moment they must at least fly a ship and hauler in system so you can at least shoot there ships. know think about entering a belt to mine only to find 150 platforms set up and having to destroy each and ever one of them"
"i'm liking the idea, but i need to think it over before supporting.in regards to making highsec damms freely attackable vs. alliances crowding out small mining corporations: isn't it already possible for large alliances to crowd out small mining corporations in the current paradigm? a large mining fleet working on a belt will get a larger share of the ore from that belt than a small mining fleet working the same belt. each active account can currently only operate one mining barge *or* exhumer at a time while logged in, and in the proposed system each active account can only operate a certain number of damms at a time around-the-clock. what difference would exist such that highsec damms must be attackable without a wardec to prevent large alliances from crowding out small mining corporations any more than is already currently possible on tranquility? mchief117 posted while i was typing. i think he answered my question, but i really need to get some sleep before it will make sense."
"sure... remove mining and change it to another passive income. even better... mining in specialized mining ships is so last century. we should \"mine\" in logistics. cap stable oneiros ftw.while we're at it, botting is the new fotm. if \"everyone\" is doing it, why not boost the \"profession\"? oh, and don't forget to give some love to can flippers and suicide gankers. the poor souls don't have enough fun already.in one word, fantastic idea."
"i am totaly diging this ideal.but it needs a bit more polish.1. they only work when your loged in. this stops none active alts from droping this things all over the place.2. the damm will warp away after player logs out or even disconet from game. just like a ship.the ideal of what you got is great but we do need to limit it to when your loged in as well as to stop this things from cluttering up all the belts too.hell i think it would be awsome to drop this things into mission belts when the mission has a good one hahaso lets make them hauler drones able to use gates as well for mission mining and though systems were there are no stations. you will have to set the place were the hualer drone is to deposit it's goods."
"true be told i have can fliped to get back on my feet before lolz. this would make it so much easyer if your doing it for the isk or ore and not just to grief some newbie. as for the suicide gankers this is a great change for them as they can now keep concord out of it. this things are attacable even in high sec. no war dec needed."
"this sounds like a bad idea to begin with. as an mining player myself, i practically enjoy staring down the rocks like chuck norris stares down the books until he gets the information he needs. i even enjoy mining the lesser rocks like veldspar for hours on end (it's like a weird fetish of sorts) for manufacturing purposes.to simply eliminate mining barges and exhumers will cause the following problems:1. unlike the learning skills (which were murdered during the last expansion), mining barges and exhumers are the mainstay of the new eden economy (along with haulers). they are so intertwined into our economy that removing them just to combat the malicious bots is not only an epic fail waiting to happen, but simply pointless bots will simply start using ships like the rokh, vexor, etc. to mine as a supplement. and with the existence of cargohold rigs and modules, a vexor can have a decent cargohold to hold the ore for its class. i guess we'll have to get rid of those too, huh?2. the price of minerals might climb a little too high for our liking given the lack of mining barges and exhumers capable of bring in the needed ores for production while players have to make due using their pvp ship as a mining ship. and don't forget that the cargohold on these ships are not up to par with that of the barges or exhumers. don't get me wrong, i like to see tritanium being worth more isk, but not to the point where only the wealthiest players can afford them.3. even if each player is limited to only 5 damms (as you so nicely named them... funny though), don't forget that each system could have between two to as many of dozens of corps competing for like... what... 12 belts? and each corp has like... what... dozens (if not over a hundred) players? those belts will dry up fast by the end of the morning and those who log in after will have nothing left.but don't misunderstand me just yet. i like the idea of a damm, but just not as a main mining tool as a replacement for the barges and exhumers. just like pi, the damms can serve as a supplement. and let's also not forget that there are players like me who enjoy looking at rocks flying ships that are specifically designed for this sort of job. i tried mining in pvp ships before (from cruisers to even battlecruisers) and it's no fun at all when your biggest limit is the size of your cargohold. let's also not forget that not all players have access to an orca while the rorquals are still not authorized to enter high-sec space (which provides the biggest mining boosts and space).my recommendations:at the very least, keep the limit of damms to just 1 per player and have the players haul the ores themselves the same way they haul pi commodities from the customs office. also, the damm should only be a suppliment to barges and exhumers (not a replacement). and let's make it more interesting. make the damms require frequent maintenance like replacing mining crystals along with daily calibrations as the various rocks disappear in the belt. also, limit the number of damms per belt to say, 7-10 per belt in addition to observing concord regulations regarding anchoring units in belts. this way, the damms won't become another nuisance like the cans and won't over load the local node with excess units."
"uhm... you obviously missed a bit of sarcasm in my post. oh, well,... nvm"
"i support this. we have auto-factories, auto-research labs and auto-pi; why not automated mining?"
"started off well.then proposed a system that doesn't address the good start.i don't even think attacking your damms would bother a bot. scoop, wait till threat gone, redeploy. bots that ignore your actions get boring real quick.it would however bother a human to varying degrees, which is the very best thing about your idea.your system doesn't advocate the removal of the orca either, the single most visible abomination in the entire game, of all the vessels in eve, the orca is the least \"eve\", and all efforts should be made to remove them from the game, not barges.personally, i like the much-but-not-enough touted idea of actual destructive strip mining.change the barges to be battlecruiser swift, firing mining charges to break apart asteroids, and then have to tractor and/or manouver to scoop up the debris, type of affair.the result being a much lower yield from each asteroid as much of the roid is lost as dust, perhaps even a huge percentage like 80%, but you take minerals into your hold faster than normal mining.so you gain quicker, and deny your competitors in the roids resource by destroying.something like that anyway. passive bad, active good."
"what if you dont want to mine everything in the belt?say you are mining for kernite, but dont want any veldspar...i see this as being more work than its worth."
"then you skill up for the fancy t2 damms and set kernite to highest priority and veldspar to lowest. then you only get veld if everything else has gone. (even if veld wasn't your priority, it's better than nothing).the idea is that people who want to afk mine will get the least value from their damms; people who interact closely with them will get the most.the point of the proposal is not to give miners a passive income, but to put them on a level of equality with the botters by automating the hours of repetitive action that mining currently involves, and focusing the miners on actually making decisions, which is where they should have the advantage over the bots.incidentally, for the guy who was concerned that bots would automatically scoop their damms when they were attacked, i don't think that it's a problem. it's more of an opportunity: when the bot turns up in a hauler to collect his large and bulky damms, then that's the ideal time to gank him: destroy his hauler and therefore some or all of his damms too. remember that anchored objects take a little while to unanchor too."
"how is that different to warping to a belt to find 30 macrohulks stripping it bare?"
"i appreciate that, but there aren't enough of your fellow fetishists to sustain the eve economy. and you must admit that for most people mining is unbelievably boring.besides, you can still sit in the belt and watch your damms shoot rocks if you want to. not sure how that is so very different to watching a hulk doing the same, apart from the rsi. is tendon pain an essential part of your... uh... how to put this? satisfaction?the best belts are already pounced on immediately after dt. at least with damms, the late tz guy can anchor his and get an equal bite of the cherry when the belts respawn. my idea is actually kinder to the off-tz guys than the current situation.bots dont need sleep..."
"one thing about mining is that it actually is quite labour-intensive when you're the orca pilot and you're supporting half a dozen or more ships. and if you're a piloting an exhumer, with good mining skills and a boost from a fleet orca, you're still reasonably busy as the strip miner cycle gets down to around 200 seconds. i find myself checking planets and doing some trading, so it's not downtime...also, mining gives you a chance to chat over strategies with corp-mates and chat is a part of the game, no?"
"dragging an ore icon every 3.3 minutes doesn't strike me as \"reasonably busy\", but that's subjective i suppose.you can still chat away whilst optimising and repositioning your damms can you not? my proposal still gives plenty of scope for the miner to be actively and closely involved; he just doesn't have to do the mindless parts. indeed, the miner who just logs in, anchors 5 damms and logs off isn't going to get much ore at all unless he does so in an unused systems.oh man did i totally forget to mention that my proposal would open up lo-sec for mining? i didn't shoulda forgetted that! my proposal will open up lo-sec for mining. and since mining will be happening there, that means there will be scope for lo-sec industry as well."
"dude, your idea is horrible!!but.....if we get dams to be anhored in low-sec and null-sec only.... and deposit drone at a central \"box\" that can be destroyed by a cruiser/bc sized ship or dang, and has a gun or smth.... and drops some t2 salvage, some sort of loot and all the ore it has collected through the day, that would be fun. and yes, it would be free mining.but it would beslow miningand it wouldbe something destructable."
"so you think that players should be able to compete with mining macros everywhere except where mining macros actually operate?"
"like i said, i would only support it if the limit is 1 damm unit per player, 7-10 such units per belt, use it only as a supplemental income like pi, make it observe concord littering regulations, and make it require constant maintenance (swapping worn-out crystals that suffer damage faster, and recalibrating the units every day) while forcing the player to haul the extracted ores from the unit to the station as you would with pi and customs offices.oh yeah, almost forgot. in a addition to the maintenance requirements, you should be forced to retarget the unit once the rock being mined is depleted.the point of my recommendations is to make the player more active if they don't have my certain... fetish of staring blindly at rocks all day.other than that, not supported as giving such a unit too much power over mining barges and exhumers is a bad idea (as i already explained). and besides, your vision of these units would just make it too easy for the bots to exploit and the players who have mined their entire lives would feel like an automobile worker being replaced by a robot that can not only do their job, but can also deliver the owner a cup of coffee as well."
"the whole point of the proposal is to free the miner from finicky, tedious, mindless clicking. should industrialists have to restart their queue after every unit of whatever they're making is finished?with my proposal, the miner keeps all his advantages and counters all his disadvantages versus the mining bots. your modifications would negate the whole point of the proposal. i know it seems like a massive change from the way we do it now, but the way we do it now is basically designed to give bots an advantage over humans, since the ability to endure hour after hour of tedious repetition is promoted over the need to respond flexibly and make intelligent decisions. that's exactly what needs reversing.change the mining game from \"who can put up with the most mindless boredom\" to \"who can be the smartest\" - that's my manifesto.i want to reclaim mining for humans. i want to reclaim lo-sec for mining. i want to reclaim 0.0 for mining. heck, i have 2 characters with exhumers 4 tyvm, and i'd like to be able to leverage that investment - that's my interest in this declared. right now, the only exciting thing you can do in a hulk is get ganked."
"dammageddon just doesn't have the same ring to it :-/i'd suggest keeping the mining barges but giving them a different spin to the autominers. look at what happened with pi - it's (mostly) automated but hardly profitable at this point. i don't have a good response on how to make mining more interesting but this would at least deal with the botting problem - if there was a less rewarding yet 'legal' way to bot, this would be it."
"losing hulkageddon is the worst side-effect of this proposal but never mind, there are always mission runners."
"how is it i'm the only one here seeing this is just one big fat troll and everyone is getting suckered into it?i mean.. come on... damm's?"
"honi qui mal y pense"
"anybody else have any thoughts or input to this topic? id hate it to slide inexorably to the 90 day forum limit and not have had a decent discussion?moar ideas/more criticism and analysis?ce"
"the issue:the distribution of lowsec/highsec systems in its current state is a product of years of expansions and 're-zoning' of security status. this has resulted in a number of lowsec regions and pockets, even individual systems, that are isolated and trapped in the middle of highsec constellations.examples include: abha & derelik region. derelik will be used an example throughout the rest of the proposal.abstractccp should recognize the need to modernize the distribution of general empire security status (not true sec, just lowsec v highsec flags) in order to create a unified lowsec that will allow travel from one end to the other without going through nullsec or highsec. sec status should not be a remnant of past expansions or rp considerations; it should be a result of careful planning to provide the best game play for eve subscribers. the changes should be as minimalistic as possible to expand rather than revamp existing game play.proposalall lowsec pockets should be able to be traveled to via other lowsec. ex. i can fly from lowsec in caldari space all the way down to minmatar space, albiet slowly because of the increase in number of jumps required to skirt highsec. therefore a minimum number of lowsec bordering highsec systems must be rezoned as .4 lowsec in order to allow travel and/or a minimum number of lowsec gates > systems must be added to connect lowsec regions with others.practicalitiesplenty of warning must be given of the patch that would introduce these changes, giving any -active- players the opportunity to move their assets out of highsec systems that will become .4 sec, if so desired. although returning players may find that their former highsec system is now lowsec, the reality is that game play must be improved for those paying to play the game now, not those who may return at a much later date. agents in .5 stations becoming .4 should be correctly scaled to give lowsec missions, or be moved into highsec nearby. i feel .4 sec status is the most appropriate for all these systems as it requires the least amount of re-balancing (ex. no moon minerals) and should impact balance and game play the least. if systems are added simply add them as bland .5 generated systems with random characteristics and no stations/agents that would require balancing. gates are preferred to new systems.the system sec change would not require every lowsec to connect to every other lowsec directly; routes would connect pockets and regions without disturbing highsec connectivity. examples would be envisioning the galaxy as connecting concentric circles:(faction warfare)inner empire lowsec -> highsec -> edge of empire lowsec -> nullsec, with unpractical isolated lowsecs in highsec left as they are or raised to .5 status. examples include in domain region: mai, neziel, ruchy.reasoning and caveatsthis is not a nerf/buff to highsec or lowsec in any way. it is simply an attempt to 're-zone' empire into more logical partitions.it would allow inter-regional lowsec roaming independent of nullsec travel. lowsec pvp and corps should not be contained to small pockets unless they choose to. the option should always be to roam outwards as far as desired, exactly the same as nullsec corps have the option to reach other nullsec without traveling through highsec. a logical expansion of this idea supported by ccp's desire in the latest csm minutes to slow down easy logistics is to remove all highsec -> nullsec connections, either adding a lowsec system in between or lowering the highsec system to lowsec (such as torrinos, dital).example rezoning in practiceopen the derelik image at the start of the post. shedoo, ihal, uhtafal would become .4 lowsec, a new gate would connect bairshir with akhard. etc, simple and straightforward."
"not supported. modifying sec status of current systems = bad idea. lowsec pockets add texture to the map. even adding new jump routes on most of them would make those pockets significantly less interesting. lowsec pockets = local flavour. bland = bad.the issue of limited lowsec-only travel options does indeed make the game a little bit less interesting. counter-proposaladd a handful of new connecting systems to allow for a full lowsec circumnavigation of eve, but not remove the lowsec pocket culture."
"we're on the same page, lowsec roams needs to be able to happen. deep highsec pockets that aren't remotely close to lowsec would be impractical to change and can remain as they are as mentioned. however i should be able to roam from lowsec derelik to amarr fw space to find more fights without having to fly through highsec, even if it takes me more jumps total.what pocket culture? highsec gate hugging and rancer camping?"
"so i was discussing eve with my 1.0 pals last night...the topic of discussion moved on to high 0.0 isk generation with all parties agreeing that with the availability of limitless plex, rats, anoms the generation of isk 0.0 sec is nowhere near challenging enough. some guy had the opinion that 0.0 isk generation should not necessarily be harder, but should at least be more of a challenge that scaled with the size of the operation. the complete removal of plex, rats, anoms, officers was suggested and seemed to be widely accepted by a bunch of guys who live in 1.0 and know nothing about 0.0 isk generation, whether or not this will actually happen though is anyones guess. the general consensus was that the 0.0 isk generation should consist of more strategic and tactical planning than simply oh ill run officer on thursday."
"yes, they should be forced deep into 0.0 where a computer can rat all day with impunity, therefore a person can rat all day with impunity, and make more isk than a level 4 ratter.sort your priorities out.make them run l3 and medium unstable energy neutralizer drops from 12m to 1m, but the heavy version goes from 1m to 12m.and not another change will be noticed."
"what a terrible op."
"and how will you create meta 1-4 items, then?"
"then i do not know stop working the lowest payed profession in the game and do something more useful. gee liek train remote trade skills and trade while staring at the asteroids. if you are mining as afk income then be quiet if it is afk income it should be low."
"basic idea:split each of the four empires would be divided by low sec border zone with some small coridors of variable sec systems between the 2 friendly factions gallene and minmatar and caldari and amarr. i will come back to the variable rules later. now before you all panic let me explain. the empire republics are big enough for each to support it's own hub. they are not as big as jita but they are big enough and they would grow while jita would shrink a bit. the markets would not just die. if the borders were entirely of low sec [not null sec] lets say 3-4 jumps deep it would stop the interregional freighter afk flights but still would allow it inside the region. that would create market opportunities for stuff that is exclusive in one region and needs to be imported in the other be it through escort or covert transport. this would lead to higher profit margins for the fewer brave. you could also use jump freighters to limit the risks.hell even a escort oriented corporation could form and police the corridors. pirates would be happy as they have more targets now and the pirate hunters now have more targets as well skirmishes ensue. fw have now a whole new playground. fighting on the frontiers remember those strange variable sec system i have mentioned between friendly factions? faction warfare folks were complaining how the plexes and system possession is of no point. now it would have and big one. if both the gallente and minmatar could hold majority of the plexes in their possession for lets say from down time to down time then for next cycle the sec status changes to 0.5 with only concord not faction navies present. the other militia players can atack the fw targets fight can ensue like in low sec against enemy militia without enemy npc intervention. when the enemy milita holds more plexes in the zone the sec drops to 0.4 in the variable low sec system. so you are motivated to both attack and defend at same time. industrial corps and alliances that want to have the corridor open would be motivated to pay the militia in some form to have that route open.this would be a great thing just have to think about it as an opportunity. if you are mission runner now you would need to be careful crossing region to other agent or buy another ship and perhaps specialize in second one to use in the other empire increasing the demand for ships and fittings.pos towers that are not of the native origin would have to have their isotopes imported increasing the prices and creating opportunities for trade. it should create sort of a trading outposts on the borders [not hubs] for the ammo ships and equipment close to the front lines on both sides in stations for people to form up and reship after combat with plenty of trade opportunity there. if done correctly and have multiple routs and not a gank alley. would be fun it would cause pvp both in fw and with pirates and others. just to clarify only the friendly factions could have the variable sec connetions amarr to minmatar and caldari to gallente you would have to go through low sec all the time.what do you think? please no total care bear whining i am a care bear and i think this would be good for trade for markets and eve in general. and it gives something useful to do for the fw folks."
"not supported.why?its a terrible idea.low sec content needs rebalanced, low secs solution is not to make it unavoidable. people don't go because they don't want to go."
"can someone take more then 2 minutes including typing in reply and actually read the post thanks.you did not even read the post"
"i assure you, i did.not liking your terrible idea does not equal not reading the post."
"1) and always: use the dammed search function. it has already proposed plenty of times. 2) most the reason why it is a bad idea are already in the above mentioned thread so i will not repeat them there.3) let's say it is implemented, what should be done with caldari and amarr stations in gallente and minmatar space? and with the gallente-minmatar in caldari-amarr space? 4) what should be done with pod pilot of the wrong nationality? all amarr should be expelled from gal-min space and pushed in cal-amarr space?"
"this should have been done years ago.ccp did attempt something like that when they removed yulai superhighways and added some low sec between gallente/caldari and minmatar/amarr. they just didn't go far enough and the end result was useless - as far as separating empires goes.eve would feel larger and be much more exciting if there were high sec regions separated by several jumps worth of 0.0aside from massive pvp boost, it would open opportunities for greatly enhancing trade, both player and npc market.i'm guessing ccp wanted to do something like that from the start, but in the beginning there weren't enough players, so ccp felt it safer to concentrate everyone in 1 safe area. now the game has grown large enough to handle a split of empires. besides, people need new stuff. this is one of those things that would make eve fresh again."
"not supported. i absolutely loathe that certain areas of lowsec are isolated, even individual systems, trapped by highsec.it allows for absolutely horrible and imo skilless 'pvp' (read: gankers) to sit in these systems on a highsec gate, and if god forbid someone comes to pvp them, they just jump to highsec and thumb their noses at them. if anything lowsec needs to be interconnection to allow global roaming, not isolated into regions and pockets."
"i maybe was not clear enough the low sec areas would be continuous not isolated pockets with connection to the periphery low and null sec system basically you could cross from one side empire to another in those areas. the gay pirate case you described is a problem on every low to hich crossing and that can not be done away with."
"i do not know where did you get that idea you could be of any race and live in any place you want just like now provided you have not shoot on sight standings. what is the problem again with the station where are you getting this from."
"i would like to propose sansha gate camps be placed in high sec incursions to gank the afk freighters and other afk autopiloting folks not just in low/null sec."
"almost forgot to support own topic :-p"
"we all know about teh recons and their main ewar buffs:-caldari : ecm jammer strength (both recons have it)-minmatar: webbing range (both recons have it)-gallente: disruptor (and scram?) range (both recons have it)and the famous curse for its neuting range bonus, problem is , the pilgrim doesnt have the bonus. in fact , the only difference between the two ships are that the pilgrim can cloack and the other has neut range. is that normal? the problem with the current system is that all teh other recons can just decloack at (in some cases) extreme ranges and effectivly apply their ewar. the pilgrim still has to be within 12k to neut, thus making it dangerous for teh pilgrim alone to ambush someone in a fleet fight for example , since all the others will be way out of pointing range once they decloak.my proposal is that the pilgrim be granted a similar (if not slightly reduced) range to neuts as the curse."
"well here's the thing, the other recons have 2 ew bonuses on both combat and force variants. the combat variant trades the cloaking bonus for a 2nd damage bonus (all have at least 1). the pilgrim/curse is the exception. the curse trades the cloaking bonus for a neut range bonus rather than a second damage bonus. i don't think anyone is complaining about this, but it does result in a large disparity in the flying style the two ships use. i rather like the two as is, the pilgrim being a brawler relying on the cloak to get in close while the curse does the kiting nano ***otry. however, if a bonus change was in order, it would make sense for the neut range bonus to be on both with only the strength bonus applying to the curse. that however, would be a very hard nerf to the pilgrim imho.edit: first post with new avatar, i don't recognize my own face. i also miss my mohawk. damn you ccp for removing it."
"the pilgrim/curse is the exception. the curse trades the cloaking bonus for a neut range bonus rather than a second damage bonus.hmm , then why not put in a more significant dmg bonus on teh curse? like instead of 10% per lvl , like 12% per lvlbecause , right now , its doing only as much dmg as a t1 arbitratoralso you mentioned that the pilgrim is a brawler, i kinda agree with that , but it doesnt tell me why all the other races can just do as much dmg (ewar included) from 50k and not need to get closer , while the pilgrim must crawl (litterally) to its targetimho , the pilgrim's brawler status makes it inappropriate in a fleet, exept if your willing to stay at 50k and just td (tracking disrupt), that means only using half of its intended ewar."
"good luck with that, there used to be a major threadnaught about the pilgrim et al. back in the days. ccp ain't gonna do squat about it, they didn't even deign to reply to that back then. just live with it being the red-headed orphan of recons, you can still use it as a throwaway cyno recon, haha."
"not supported. the two ships fly differently. you kite with the curse, you creep up into range while cloaked with the pilgrim.the pilgrim does not need the range bonus."
"could you post that thread plz?i cant find it"
"if you maintain abundance differences then you will have solved nothing, people will just harvest whatever gives the most isk.moons should be more evenly distributed across the regions so that you can't have one faction that can corner a market like we see with technitium.either that or their values should be closer to each other to avoid obvious bottlenecks -> monopolies.alternately the 'content' of the individual moons could be randomized on a 3-6 month cycle, thus requiring new probing and reconfiguration of pos plus opening for fights over \"new\" moons.if/when ccp realises that capitals (especially supers) should be restricted in low-sec then making certain moon types exclusive to the area could be a huge boon for the pew.pi should be able to produce all materials at varying efficiencies so that bottlenecks in supply can be minimized.alas, there is no easy fix."
"hmm having people be able to put a colony on a moon with their pi would be interesting. then you might actually have people fight over stuff in dust.i agree that the moons need a looksie into though. either have some other products also restricted to other regions, or unrestrict the regions of technetium."
"why not just expand the availability of moon harvesting entirely. allow fluctuations and changes on a downtime cycle; so all moons have the ability to produce all possible resources. introduce a system where moon harvesters will cycle out for sudden lack of resources; and when a short survey is done, it proves that a new yield of another mineral has been discovered. undefined quantities, is the key. you may well no, how much you may collect per hour from the surface; but, it may be more difficult, to determine how long you might be able to do so. introduce some of the elements of planetary interaction to moon harvesting. not on the level of npc labourers and engineers on the surface; but, in technological advances, that allow you to produce better results, from your harvesting. deeper ability, to understand what lies beneath the surface; and determine how long mineral veins may play out, based on your survey's. allow for depletion of mineral resources; while maintaining that they still yet exist there. make it skill based. make it available in wormholes, and even highsec; but limit quantities based on npc populations. this is part of the logic, i believe; behind resource limitations in planetary interaction. it has been mined, it is being used; and the player-base, is just further limiting available resources.low security space will have less than null; and highsec, might not even be worth doing. 1.0 systems, should be virtually depleted; of all available assets. perhap's the same, for 0.8-0.9. concord limits capsuleer access, to allow for resources to play out longer; for the various npc factions that require them for their own needs.sure, make it available in dust 514. but make it something the player-base there; does of their own accord. something to create their own means of income; outside of what may be available to them from war contracts. a way for them to interact; and develop there own sustainable infrastructure. pirating, marauding, territorial wars.. even faction missions, and empire building. why shouldn't dust 514, have the availability of player owned command centers; with the ability to build and maintain ground vehicles, weapons, and all they need, to wage war. a bit beyond the initial release of course; but, something to look forward to. the endless drudgery, of fighting over eve's player owned planetary infrastructures; or that, as the most profitable means of developing an income, between other things. so moons, become the sole providence of dust 514 mercenary companies; disturbed, only by the occaisional orbital harvesting array. though, such things would only occur; well away from where lunar colonies would be affected. so the other side of the moon; is a capsuleer induced gaping hole.. so what! i always thought dust 514, should use the same skill-based system as eve; though, perhaps with an entirely different set of skills. why not alter moons? they don't benefit hardly anybody, outside of specific alliance held territories. there's no reason to believe, that those territories shouldn't have great moons; but, that doesn't mean other area's, can't have moons that produce the same thing, in lesser quantities."
"fyp"
"all the good moons in low are owned by massive sov holding alliances.surely you don't expect this to change just because there are more of them?"
"which is why i advocate further restrictions on capitals in low-sec if moons there are to be buffed. take away their big toys and low-sec citizens generally curb-stomp equal size null gangs (talk to the hand!) .. benefit of intimate knowledge of the ships and not relying on bubbles, hotdrops, bridges and what not to get ahead.sub-cap brawls - best brawls."
"give moons finite quantities of 'goo' and when it's tapped out another moon elsewhere, in an entirely different region, low and null in equal measure suddenly has a new vein 'discovered'.of course, the existing goo on that moon may still be mined away in complete blissful ignorance. it would require probing the moon again to discover if any new resource veins have been discovered."
"get all those drones dropping moo goo instead of minerals, would fix mining as well as keeping moon min supply available as mostly renters killing drones and selling the stuff."
"hmm... the last couple of times my alliance reclaimed moons in lowsec (last summer after that big war), we did it in battleships. not sure what restriction on capital use in lowsec would change.the only thing that would fix is the income of botters in drone regions."
"no it will bring the exact same blobs and mass sec hits to lowsec, as well as fights on nodes that generally arent prepared to handle them.smaller entities wont magically get tech moons because its in lowsec, go look at the tech moon in bosborger (heimatar). its been changing hands between the russians, pl, nc for as long as i can remember. they arent exactly lowsec entities :preal issue is absolutely asinine and corrupt decision to bump technetium up as the t2 bottleneck and thusly most valuable mineral in the game, and oh hey look its only in the north. even the ideas that advocate moon depletion wouldnt solve this issue: having all tech moons respawn in the north doesn't remove the north's monopoly of the market. at the time of this writing tech is up to 75k a unit in jita, an eve high, which gives it roughly 5.3bil profit every 30d (with only mining, not even reacting), the next highest is neodynium at 1.8bil a month mining, with the rest falling off quickly after that. with hundreds of text moons controlled by the northern bloc for alliance income, macros for personal income, etc its no wonder isk is irrelevant in eve and supercap creep is the problem that it is. /end rant"
"why was this overlooked?also a hotkey to give focus to the most recently open window and to open advanced settings (or make \"show advanced default\") an option would be very welcome."
"next expansion is going to have ai that will eat dronescpp thinks hybrids are fine, because blasters do lots of damage (could do*)with the pages of player comments asking for something to be done,well it would be nice to see a dev say something even acknowledging there is a problem instead of the usual:\"blasters are the highest damage blah blah\"that they usually respond with...edit- please forward your support here"
"can we acknowledge that small hybrids are totally fine instead of the usually \"blah blah hybrids suck\" bull****?medium and large may be bad or whatever, but small hybrids are total ****pwn. just compare an arty jag to a rail harpy. i don't want them to fix hybrids and next thing i know i have to avoid daredevils and ishkurs like the plague."
"most frigates already avoid them like the plague tbh."
"they don't hate gallente. they just give some more love to minmatar and amarr.not being a constructive suggestion, i won't support it since there is nothing specific to be supported anyway."
"yes this was more of a rage posti have summed it up in a more proper post in a betteer sectionplease excuse my qq at the top and support this page"
"that's more like it."
"ccp have delited all of my posts and the topic i made about gallente needing re-balancing...."
"nope i think i just cant see my own posts anymore hrmm... maube when servers are actualy up it will be better again =p"
"well if kinda wish they had deleted them....reading is the first step right?"
"they dont hate gallente the dev's in general simply dont pvp. there was this \"devs what do u do in eve\" topic on the other day and most dev's run missions or do fw. we all know blasters dont get used in pve and fw has less trouble of balsters since taranis and daredevils are fast enough to get in range and scram people. of the dev's that do pvp maybe only 10% flies gallente. so not enoguh support...they come up with nice graph's about how turrets and blaster are balanced will but on the battlefield we all know they simply dont work. gallante ships are just desighned bad or nerfed too much. their roles are worng and sometimes they have 3 different weapon systems. a good exapmle is the lachesis, drones, turrest and missile launchers. the only reson why people fly them is because drake blobs are populair atm. all ships above t2 size of gallante above frigats are broken. well, maybe the ishtar is good for plexes.. but that isnt pvp snt it?"
"actually i would contest the fact.consider that the overwhelming body of fictional work (also written by ccp devs) loves to beat up on gallenteans to the point where several of the rp-types started picking up on it.consider the game balance issues that have been beaten to death in this subforum and others. it's not just their weapons systems. is over half of the faction's ships, all three of their weapons (blasters-suck, drones are less effective than they ought to be, railguns are plain terribad), their defensive systems (active armor tanking sucks), their ewar (wtbeoslololol), their mission agents (experimental missions that screwed every llente mission runner up)..i'd love - love - to know who at ccp was handling or representing gallente in dev teams and then suddenly quit. if you compare the t1 gallente lineup with the t2 lineup it would appear someone completely lost the plot. it was like all of a sudden somebody threw in the towel then almost everything past that point was crap."
"hybrids are weak, unsuitable for gallente design and have huge fitting requirements."
"bull's eye."
"i realise this is going to be a minority thread, but hopefully it might get somewhere.first off, ccp & devs do a great job in keeping the osx client going as much as possible. what they really don't do is keep us informed of the problems and when there is no actual update. this leads to a lot of very annoyed players cos they just downloaded 5gb to find out that it still doesn't work. add in the fact that we're asked to test on sisi, in the middle of a ton of posts about how sisi doesn't actually have a mac patch, it just seems like someone isn't linking the mac and ccp communities together.is it possible to get someone to act as said link and actually update the instructions for sisi, the patch status for tq and sisi, fix all the references to 'running the .exe files' etc?we don't mind not having stuff so much if we're told we can't have it cos of x or even that something went utterly horribly wrong and it's gonna be a week or so, but on the other hand, i really do feel that this situation could have been avoided if the mac sisi client was kept inline with the windows client. i realise that this is in many ways a tall order, but if you're going to do synchronised releases, please have synchronised test server releases so that things can actually be tested, by players, on the client that will be released (as close as possible)."
"you've already been corrected on the rest, which i edited out. let me fill you in:turrets are \"acceptable\" in situations where range and speed are controlled, otherwise their damage is penalized into nothing. there are target painters and webifiers if you want to increase your damage with missiles against small sig or fast moving targets. this is called \"playing the game.\" a volley of missiles has huge alpha.l2play, pretty much."
"i would like to see the ability to set bounties on players that are only available to your corp or possibly alliance. i think it would be cool if a ceo could set up 1 special wallet division for bounties and put bounties on specific people that only pay corp members who kill them. a menu that allows even more options would be very cool in my opinion, for example a menu that lets you set bounties for each class of ship, and category of player such as by standing to your corp, neutral, red, war target etc.so a ceo could for example set a bounty for 20k isk for a red cruiser, 50k isk for any bs with a negative standing to the corp, or 50k isk for any pod.if there was no money in the wallet division then the bounties don't pay and the same rules for npc bounties as to who gets them could apply, and they could pay in ticks every so often like npc bounties. it seems that almost all the info need to do this exists in the current npc bounty mechanics and the kill mail generation. very respectfully ayyya"
"i do not see sense in support of this idea.simply, in games it is necessary to play on a game pc/notebook with any sm3.0/4.0 integrated video card like: ati mobility radeon hd2400 or nvidia geforce 9700m gt at least.on the markets there is very much a wide choice of such notebooks now and even at the low price.now, it is possible to find a notebook even with a ati radeon hd5470 512mb video card for only 450 euros (!!!)."
"i will not rest until eve has made obsolete 100% of the playerbase's computers.enforce shader model 400. now. when i'm zoomed out to 200km, i want to know that the single pixel i can see has been calculated no fewer than 100 million times."
"i would love to see the proof on this one, and dont tell me 2 of your corpies quit coz thats not a lot of key players. please proof what ceo's of major alliances and service corps quit because of this....ow and ofc not supported, update to recent hardware and quality."
"supported"
"halo useless? you're saying that 25% reduction in signature is useless? in what world are you living in?"
"it's not as useful as snake set.i'm sure it may be a personal preference for some, but the fact remains that speed is more important than sig.but hey, i am not serious about removing those implant sets, i was just suggesting a way to make them more valuable. whenever i loot some talisman or halo implants, it's always very disappointing to see the jita prices."
"modules and items that increase armor amount: numerous (hg slave set = 53% more armor)modules and items that increase speed: numerous (hg snake set = 37% speed boost, down from 53% originally).modules and items that increase active shield boost amount: a few rigs & boost amps (hg crystal set = 53% shield boost bonus)modules and items that affect nos/neut amount: none. ship bonuses only. (hg talisman set increases cycle time 37%). talisman unique, but nerfed compared to slave/crystal.modules and items that lower signature: none. interceptor ship bonus only. (hg halo set = 37% lower sig radius.) massively gimped compared to all other sets.slaves (my alt has a set) and crystals boost already existing modules and ship bonuses considerably, far and far beyond the bonuses granted by sets that have no or very, very few ship bonuses, rigs, or modules.yes, some implant sets need to be massively buffed (talisman, halo), whereas slaves and crystals need to be brought in line with snake due to a host of other affecting modules, rigs, and ship bonuses."
"first off let me just state whats probly already knowen about me. i don't fly caps.but the good news for this one is i dont need too.i was here for the fall of the battle ship. well basicly the same thing has to happen to super carrier's too. for all the same reasons.i think the easyest thing to do this would be limiting the super carrier to fighter and fighter bomber drones only on any drones pass the first 5. thats right only the first 5 drones can be something other then fighter and fighter bomber's. then balance the bomber drones so they only work right on caps and pos's.thats my ideal. if someone alse got's better ones though them up here.flame away!"
"supporting my own ideal.and remeaber bigger is not meant to be better or one ship kills all."
"take away their ability to field twenty of the damn things at a pop. bring them down to the same five all of us subcapital pilots are limited to.supercarriers definitely need a rather drastic correction. 1 of them should be a significant force on the battlefield, but twenty should simply not be possible.or take away their ability to use drones smaller than fighters. or whatever... some method by which subcapitals in the vicinity of one are not instantly vaporized by a single salvo of fighter-bombers. or a dreadnought under the onslaught of 20 of the damn things."
"there is already a thread on the front page of this forum dealing with a nerf to super carriers. we don't need another one :p"
"as with the previous linked thread...i'd have to give a thumbs up to reducing, drastically, the range a supercarrier can jump, and a titan a shorter distance still. the bigger the ship the shorter it's jump range.make it dependent on total mass, allowing an empty jump freighter to go scary distances, while a fully laden one maybe half as far. dreads should have their range extended, carriers only slightly less so, while supercarriers and titans should have very, very reduced spheres of immediate force projection.make titans, well, titanic. make them a force to be reckoned with within their limited sphere of rapid deployment but not something that can be launched half way across the map at a whim.to compensate the pilots trapped in them make them anchorable and, once thus anchored, become a pos for all intents and purposes. with a shield, anchorable mods that it can launch, drones that act as pos guns, ect. but maintaining that way would be expensive, yet not leave it vulnerable to any shmoe who can pilot one sneaking by the shield pw. that way a titan pilot can have some sense of security in locking his titan down in space while they fly smaller ships.or just allow the fool things to dock somehow."
"sorry. not taking dd rebalancing advice from the nc guy most responsible for pl titan kills. just seems a bit self-serving. especially when your coalition has approximately 50 titans now. your suggestions don't really nerf them when you can bridge in one after another and use the ideas you propose, but is an outright nerf for those alliances that have <10. no offence to you personally yaay, but this seems like letting the fox design the hen-house.your ideas might effect certain friendly offensive / defensive titan mods, but does nothing to prevent them from jumping out. and, at this point, those with mod damage due to your heat-proposal have already done their part anyway. thus, you can clear the field quickly with a number of your modified dds and sufficient support fleet(s) and still not harm friendly titans meaningfully. that is, the heat damage you talk about does nothing against a mod that isn't there (the jump-out option). again, this idea works well in a coalition with so many pilots and titans to draw upon, but does nothing for smaller to mid-sized alliances that have to make due with smaller number of support / titans.instead, bring back the old dd effect in a manner:boost the single-effect dd to something meaningful like 5m damage (would hurt scs more and please nerf sc hp and fb damage!) via a script, and allow for an aoe 250km range 200-300k damage aoe with a second script. and reduce the dd cycle time / immobility penalty to 5 minutes.this method would prevent the mindless blobbing of titans as is currently the case. titans are supposed to be bad-ass. right now, people blob a titan while simultaneously getting ready to post on caod about another titan kill.make hostile fcs think about how they want to attack the titan rather then just sending everything in as is currently the case.mindless blobbing may be nice for the larger alliances / coalitions, but it prevents the smaller to mid-sized alliances from using these ships as anything more then expensive jbs.as you and i posted in another thread about sc nerfing: titans should be feared. let the larger alliances / coalitions have slug fests with a number of supercaps (titans and scs) on the field, but allow for smaller to mid-sized alliances have useful titans again.people are supposed to fear a titan - not hunt and blob-kill them with relative impunity. or do i need to point out the nearly 20 tian kills in the last month alone?with the relative weakness of titans to scs (titans are immobile after the dd - scs can attack at will and jump out once capped up) and the proliferation of scs, titans need a boost badly. scs a nerf even more badly. and that doubly quick!"
"actually, the titan should not be the end-all-be-all uber i-win button (nor should supercap blobs, but hey...)it should be returned to the role it was originally intended for; a bastion around which fleets can rally. the mere presence of one should not be a 'hey look, big fat target all alone' or 'run away, there are ten of them!' but rather a floating obelisk that is like a command ship on super steroids.having one present on the grid should give massive buffs to all sub capitals working in its area (50-100km radius, for example). shield and armor resistances, capacitor regeneration, sensor strength and scan res, ect. it should not buff their damage (because, when stacked with bonuses to all other system, it would turn subcaps into dreads that move fast) but it should give them radically improved capabilities.the bridge should be improved as far as the /number/ of ships a single titan can bridge, but not their raw mass (no caps, freighers, ect), as a matter of fuel consumed to bridge. all ships using the bridge should require a mass-related spoolup prior to bridging, however.that is what a titan should be, not a spam blobbed station killer with little other useful roles."
"biomass - titans currently do not give any damage bonuses to the fleet. they give defensive bonuses.but you bring up a good point: caldari titans give a bonus to shield amount. that's all nice and neat if you have some prep-time ahead of an engagement so you have a chance to passively or actively rep your shields. but means nothing if you hotdrop / react to an incomming fleet. (when the bonus is applied, you show red on your shields with a greater unrealized shield amount and not an instant increase like you do with armor as example)unlike other titan bonuses (cap regen / armor ammount / sig radius), the caldari bonus is pretty meaningless atm as it takes something (time or repping) to realize the bonus from the titan. and this gap happens with every session change (bridging et cetera) for the fleet ship and also titan itself.given many aliances' interest in drake fleets atm, this is a meaninful and much needed change.and, while i agree with you that titans should not be some sort of \"i-win\" button, for smaller to mid-sized alliances, the presence of a titan could help secure sov by preventing hostile fleets from blobbing through a gate. even with the dd delay, slower ships (typically the higher dps dealing ships) cannot simply warp off and avoid the dd. bubble the gate and bring in the titan. for larger alliances / coalitions, there is the strength-in-numbers for offensive and defensive ops. but for the smaller to mid-szed alliances, the possession of a titan was something of an equalizer that has been lost since the loss of the aoe dd.if ccps intent was to allow for more easy sov changes vis-a-vis other game mechanics changes: fail. all the removal of the aoe dd has done is to remove one of the few defences a small or growing alliance had against the blob of the more established alliance / coalition."
"hah. want to counter the supercarrier/mothership blob?simple.cut the isk sink cost for a cyno jammer by 75%.move them inside the pos bubble.if an alliance wants the turf, they'll have to pos bash in subcaps.ccp introduced sov upgrades so systems can support more people, but then came up with the idea of 0.0 systems changing hands willy nilly at the drop of a super blob? doesn't make much sense either way.sov's difficult as sin (and expensive) to establish, and can be wiped out as easily as kicking over a tower of cards. especially with the current rolling blobs of supercarriers (41 alone on a titan kill the other day, plus 10 or more titans). sov structures like tcus, ihubs, and stations simply don't stand a chance."
"agreed to a point. sov has gotten rediculously easy to challenge.except you don't need to pos-bash the whole pos with a sub-cap fleet. you just have to incap the cynojammer. then let the flood come in.you could cut the jump-range and / or increase the fuel consumption costs of jumping / bridging supercaps significantly and thereby make supercaps more defensive in nature."
"now that i would agree with.make jump range mass dependent... the lower the mass of the ship jumping, the further it can jump. thus an empty jump freighter can go a scary long way, but fully laden it's jump range is halved or worse.dreads would be able to go very far, carriers almost as far, supercarriers should have a shorter range still, and titans... not very far at all."
"while we all love eve fitting tool, i was wondering while fitting up a ship why ccp hasn't integrated a \"diagnostics bay;\" or, something to the effect. like automotive diagnostics to check the car's performance, would it be possible to have a separate bay to be able to test the ship's active modules: maybe, a firing bay as well to test dps and volley? this would seem to fit perfectly with the enhancements to stations that are being proposed: there could even be an animation of the ship being escorted into the diagnostics bay. the main difference between this and eft, though, is that the pilot would have to be able to equip the modules, as well as have them on hand; while eft allows the pilot to use any module and ship. eft could then be more geared towards skill planning, and the new diagnostics bay would be to get a quick read out of active modules and dps.what do you all think?"
"i hope ccp looks into this after they are done with the update. although i don't regret spending all these years training for gallente ships because i'm not a meta gamer, i do something for fun and not to to gain advantage over others but also don't want to be penalized for simply preffering gallente ship and faction design."
"it was gracious of you to admit and a service to the community for you to put in the link to gm grimmis june 2010 posting.this would not be the first time ive seen junior gms say one thing and senior/lead gms another, so i suspect you actually did see something that at least had the appearance of rescinding the ruling in question.best regards,windjammer"
"my favorite part about this thread is the dual-propped noctis."
"hahahahahahaha get out forever"
"wow man, well put."
"although i hate your shiptoasting in caod, this is pretty much my exact thoughts on the cap situation and i agree 100%. my suggestion would be to allow dreads to interrupt their siege cycles, however - this would take an additional cycle of stront. this would give dreads a bit more versatility than \"siege up and do as much damage as you can before you die!\" but would introduce a bit of stront management into the mix. maybe to increase the management side of it, ccp could reduce the amount of stront that a dread can carry - making it more strategic.thoughts?"
"so, wind, let's keep track.your argument is that ccp could have just decided to claim an nda breach existed where none did, and totally made it up, but they have more lawyers so ank couldn't have won on the facts and gotten them to eat her legal fees, too. and it was probably totally invalid... except you'd also like to claim that \"there are a number of csm members who could be accurately accused of breach of the nda\", even though you don't even know what's in the nda. but ank wasn't one of those who could accurately be accused. and people are unfairly trying to demonize her for merely losing her temper, not that instead of acting like a normal person who loses their temper and fumes a bit or maybe says something rude, she responded like a toddler throwing a temper tantrum, and hurled cutlery at someone. which you deny, or at least refuse to learn anything about while suggesting that it's a conspiracy and bit of rumor mongering against ank. and now you're dishonestly claiming that it was \"distorted\" and \"blown out of proportion\". reminds me of a certain \"anti-pirate\", rabidly ank-booster who actually claimed that the facts about ank's spoon chucking didn't exist and the story itself was a lie since ank 'only' threw a spoon at someone but it hit the table instead of that person. (not that your \"metal or plastic, punk?!?\" trolling wasn't funny)and, naturally, the char you're posting with has been in an npc corp for the last 3 years, solid, with apparently no actual pve or pvp experience. so post with your main, unless you burned it during the whole ank campaign in the first place."
"exactly.wind go the **** away. ank is gone. thank everything. and she no longer needs a bunch of sycophantic followers who can't prove a thing about her innocence. according to ccp she breached the nda. that is all that we all need know. she is an unstable at best player whom used the pve community to get elected. pvp is what this game is built around. tl;dr**** ank and **** you."
"reading finn accuse someone else of acting like a toddler is amusing. no one knows what happened between ank and ccp. was an nda broken or was there a difference of interpretation? on what terms did ccp and ank finally part? will one or the other eventually pursue legal remedies?one day we may have more information to answer this question. currently we do not. as a private legal matter, that is as it should be. windjammer does have the right of it, however, when noting the usual suspects sought to demonize ank. it is the reason i and others entered this argument in the first place. whether or not one agrees with or likes ank, the personal attacks on her were (and are) over the top. finn's posts exemplify this. windjammer has done a nice job of assembling several quotes from the record. my personal favourite, however, is by mynxee (csm chair). hardly a supporter or confidant of ank, she called the antics around spoongate 'a witch hunt pandering to rabid trolls under the guise of sharing information'. this was part of her self-described rage post which she subsequently modified. what interests me more than this stale conversation about ank's past, is what will happen in the future. ank may have a defamation case against the usual suspects. they often state that harm done her reputation in game will diminish her employability as a game designer, and they continue to smear her by her real name, long after she is gone from eve. claims that ank is mentally ill are a case in point. all this says far more about finn and friend's maturity and integrity, than it does about ank. it may also end up landing them in hot water. the fact that they are hiding behind internet characters does not absolve them of responsibility. it will be interesting to see if anything more comes of this. cheers, delilah"
"ah, we have another obvious ank troll. and if your trolling is as predictable and obvious as always, we know who the alt's main is, too. speaking of how you troll pretty much without exception when defending a disgraced insane person like ank, you are actually now reduced to talking about me in the third person and playing a game of \"lalalala i can't hear you!\" while you troll and allege that other people are acting like toddlers. a lie/troll you used in the first place because you continually troll for ank an you can't decide to lie and claim that the factsaren't true, or to simply play dumb and pretend that adults throw silverware at eachother when they are annoyed.no, your alt does not \"have the right\" of anything. as i pointed out, all of it's/your arguments are dishonest and/or trolling. just like you troll and claim that my posts, which are 100% factual are \"over the top\", just like you and other trolls for ank claimed and evidently still claim that reality and facts themselves are out to get ank and \"demonize\" her. yes, reality has a well known anti-lunatic bias, sad but true.and yes, someone unable to tell the difference between fantasy and reality, who thinks that people who play pirates in a game are really sociopaths in real life? yep, that person is mentally ill. speaking of the intersection of dishonesty, trolling and a completely unhinged view of reality, i eagerly await the lawsuit you keep gleefully threatening. silly troll.(oh, and speaking of how you lie and troll constantly, gotten any kills within the las two years to back up your claim if how very much you love to pvp? no?)"
"does your corp and alliance know youre posting this idiocy with their name for all to see? surely theyd be embarrassed by it. reread my post. youve either misread or are intentionally misconstruing what i actually said.reread the quotes in post 667 from members of the csm that were there during the non-event. theyre clear on what happened and the atmosphere of the situation. theyre not my conclusions or observations. perhaps youd like to tell those members of the csm that you think theyre being dishonest? yes, the windjammer character is around 3 years old. my mains are a lot older. you might wish to use an alt to post with yourself. that way you wouldnt have to risk having your corp come here and disavow knowledge of your activity. its one thing to have a position. its quite another to display your ignorance, prejudice and inability to reason while showing your corp colors and thus reducing the corp you belong to in the eyes of the world.-windjammer"
"thank you for your unbiased, balanced and well thought out words. youre obviously well in touch with your inner child and tough guy wannabe. youve even learned how to use the f word. good for you."
"yah, similar writing style, similar trolling style, similar patterns of blatant dishonesty. if you're not daliah you're a clone.now, of course you're lying about the content of your argument, but you'd have to, since you were trolling. if you admitted that i'm right, you'd have to admit you were trolling. so instead you plug your fingers in your ears and try a good ol' argument from nunh unhh!tell you what, troll, name one single bit of your arument as i just described it, that you claim is in the least bit inaccurate, and i'll quote exactly where you said it. at which point you might admit you are trolling, or use the typical ank commando gambit of claiming that reality itself is out to get you.speaking of how reality is cruelly persecuting ank and her minions, the csm members who correctly described ank's cutlery-flinging temper tantrum were being accurate and i've never said otherwise, troll. you, hoever, are dishonestly describing the events to spin them as much as humanly possible. because you, just like all the other alt trolls for ank (truly sad considering that she is not only a disgraced crazy person, but a disgraced crazy person who no longer has anything to do with eve), have reality itself as your enemy. just like you want to describe an adult hurling silverware during a business meeting as a \"non event\".the facts show that ank was a child with poor impulse control, given to temper tantrums and throwing things? well, erm... everybody gets frustrated sometimes. the facts show that ank was mentally ill and did not understand the division between reality and fiction? reality is a smear that's out to get ank, ayieeeee! even the fact that the ank bots are obviously mostly alt trolls? well, that is to say, hrmmmm... lowell u r posting wit ur main, lowell!post with your main, troll. and try being honest."
"there is no need for me to indicate an element of my argument. all those bits of my argument have already been written in this thread. all a reader has to do is read them, compare them with what youve said and see for themselves how silly you are. did you imagine you were so clever as to be able to change what i said? your absurdity is apparent to even a child. how is it that you dont see that?please. call me troll one more time. im sure youll finally manage to irritate me.again, the csm members themselves who were there describe the non-event (mynxees phrasing in excerpt 22 in post 667 of this thread), describe it in detail, describe the feelings surrounding the situation and the atmosphere at the time. i did not spin anything. its not my description, its theirs. sorry you cant work the observations of the participants into your version of reality.is there someone i can contact for you? a care giver or doctor? you seem to be off your medications..or in need of some.-windjammer"
"sorry, finn, but it is me, delilah. i don't know windjammer, and i don't believe he's ank. not her writing voice. i know he's not me. if windjammer and my writing voice sound similar to you, its because you are hearing two reasonable people coming to similar conclusions about your screeds. windjammer, thank you for taking the time to put together detailed interpretations with extracts. i've tended to make broader points and then reference the threads. your fine grained analysis is just what is needed. cheers, delilah"
"bump, because of this post:"
"well, three cheers for the new char creator. way to screw up another expansion despite the warnings/misgivings you got in advance, ccp. considering how there are some gripes/complaints about lack of diversity and race/bloodline specifics over the forums... exactly as stated in advance to you... makes one wonder why one should even remotely bother to try to bring stuff to ccp's attention. not like they'd care anyway... /me hangs back and waits for yet another \"patch to fix the patch\"."
"it's not much of a grind anyway."
"for those of us privileged to have had our alliance logo put into eve, i'd love to have mine on the background of my portrait in some fashion.i think this should be top priority."
"supportedeven if in my humble opinion is not only blasters and rails that need fixes but also revamp ship bonus so that the whole thing works better than now.this is where i'm mostly concerned, but also support all other chosen points.edit: wanted to /bow my new masters, the sanchas. because wallente's are just a bunch of gays and junkeys."
"i agree there is a lot to be fixed about gallente, most of it is really blasters / rails issues.but dont you dare mess with my drone boats!"
"vote no - you think that because you pay a set fee each month that you should have access to all the options and features ingame that everyone else getsthere are enough silly games like maplestory and what not that do this already, micro transactions would add nothing to game play."
"nonot following the path of other mmo's is what makes eve such a refreshing change. selling gtc's/plex is one thing, they not only provide isk to the seller but provide a means for another player to add game time, microtransactions do not."
"noi will not pay double for a gamemicropayment or standard contractboth in the same system is monetization which i will support with canceling of 4 accountsim more willing in paying +1$ per account per month and get all the stuff for isk<U+FFFD>s and be able to design things myselfno no noim paying already enough for this game.if micropayment will effect any graphical or ingame expirience im gone instantlymicropayment for changing my char-picture or charname, or deleting my company history: yes !!!!like paying for transfering an account. the problem in this system is, that a plex is relativly worthfully with around 15$ so there has to be a second money system, which i will not support.there should be no way that eve uses more money than subscription from ingame. think of childs, which dont know what they are doing,"
"cosmetic only."
"no"
"no."
"well, one thing i do agree with is that supercarriers do too much damage indeed and i can imagine that tackling 40 of them over a longer period of time is a tough thing to accomplish. on the other hand i don't like the idea of leaving them more or less totally defenseless against 1-2 hics by crippling all the anti-subcap abilities too hard. even though they are predominantly capital killers they should still have some semi-decent form of defense.at this point the most reasonable thing to me seems to be the idea of giving them +1 drone per lvl and +3 drones per dcu along with say 25-33% total damage reduction on the bombers itself. they would still be able to do massive damage if they are fitted with \"carrier class damage mods (i.e. dcu)\" while they would at the same time sacrifice self-defense capabilities (somewhat similar to how a bs sacrifices tank for damage). or they could retain their self-defense (aka neuts, remote ecm, smarties) with lesser damage. i would also not be too averse to a pure fighter/fb bay and a much smaller regular drone bay even though i am not too sure if less than 1000m<U+FFFD> would be good. i feel like you should still be able to launch one full group of almost every drone possible but that is just a gut feeling at the moment.altering their slots and/or capacitor attributes on the other hand i don't see as necessary just because i think the lowering of the scan resolution (which seems like an ok idea again) would take care of the \"ha! i will just quickly lock you and neut you out/drone you to death\" issue when it comes to smaller ships. if a hic gets a point on a supercarrier and can't get anything that resambles a jesus blob or at least more hic backup on the field within say 1-2 minutes the supercarrier should still make it out in my book.also, bring in slave implants for shields and while you are at it, even though a bit off-topic, crystal implants for armor reps (active armor tanking bs might become useful \o/), fix the shield amount loss on jump-in and adjust the relative ehp of all supercapitals to one another. tl:dr- don't touch slots- don't touch the capacitor- yes, reduce scan resolution (hic/dictors should take a while, capitals not so much)- yes, possibly add a seperate bay for 1 flight of either fighters or bombers (plus 3-5 backup)- yes, reduce the regular drone bay size but not to much. 2000m<U+FFFD> or 2500m<U+FFFD> rather than 1000m<U+FFFD>- no, dont increase cap usage for neuts. instead do the +1 drone per lvl / +3 drones per dcu thing- yes, reduce fb base damage by around 1/4 or 1/3and no, don't even dare to touch their ewar immunity. the day 10 falcons lolerjam even 5 supercarriers more or less permanently (we all know how it goes) while 5 arazus stomp their scan resolution totally into the ground is the day the server should shut down o/"
"just want to add one more thing before i head to bed. if anything was changed about super carriers where fitting drone control units was needed to get the damage they do now, as in +1 drone per carrier level and +3 drones per dcu fit, you absolutely have to make the dcu fully passive. right now they are active modules and don't use cap. i have no clue why they made it an active module but the last thing we need is for an epic fight to be happening, lag hits, and dcu's stop cycling and all the super carriers lose control of their fighter bombers and thus, almost all of their damage.i know some of you would love it like that, but we have to be reasonable."
"if the small gang wants to warp away, not much the sc can do about it. thus the sc cannot kill the small gang unless the small gang is a willing participant. willingness displayed by staying when they should have warped away.something about this whole discussion has been bothering me for some time. why do people assume that the super carrier was designed to be exclusively anti capital. its ability to do sub cap damage is substantial and can be nothing less than an intended design. when the bombers were added it was to create a situation in which the sc had to make a choice. attack structures and capital ships with maximum effect or deal with the sub capitals. bombers were found to be too effective against sub capitals and were dialed back accordingly to reduce their effect to sub caps. i dont see the point at which they were designed to be exclusively anti capital.-windjammerp.s. youre welcome for the bump."
"some interesting discussion here. the op's ideas are quite good, though i think there's some other good brainstorming in this thread the could develop them further. i'm an sc pilot so i have a vested interest and some relevant experience.my general philosophy is that a supercap ship should require and rely upon a support fleet. in the real world, a carrier always belongs to what's known as a carrier strike group. the carrier is always accompanied by missile cruisers, defensive ships like subs and destroyers, and logistics ships. i'd like to see changes that encourage teamwork and coordination - bringing an sc to a fight should be a brown pants moment for the enemy. to that end i'd generally support changes that remove the sc's ability to defend itself against subcaps and tackle. i'd allow sc's to carry only fb's and fighters, and would remove the bonus to the number of fighters (but leave it for fbs.) i'd remove most if not all sc ewar immunity (probably just leaving them immune to ecm because i hate it;) i'd leave sc's with huge dps against capital ships, and a huge buffer tank.i'd then look for cool ways to actually buff the sc's so they fit the role of being the focus of a squad or wing. i'd task the sc as a wing leader ship, and provide it with some bonuses if it is in the fleet role of wing leader. i would allow characters in the sc's wing to dock *in* the sc while it cyno jumps, allowing a small titan-bridge like capability (up to the maintenance bay capacity of the sc.) i think cynoing, then having a dozen support ships undock from my ship would rock. tldr - the scs should be nerfed so they need a support fleet, and buffed so if they have a support fleet they are awesome. awesomeness should be proportionate to the teamwork involved."
"that's not \"buffing\", that's giving them a role.currently scaps do not have their own roles but are instead straight upgrades of existing ships. what you're thinking of is differentiating them from existing ships to get them out of the way of existing ships (mostly the dread and carrier, but also in large parts the support fleet that was made obsolete by the drone swarms).needless to say that this would be a very positive thing for eve as a whole. personally, i'd like to see moms as combat oriented version of the carrier, with much less dps/ehp/cost, no ewar invulnerability and gained docking ability. but a more fleet support oriented style would be okay too, as long as the dps and ehp inflation is tuned down a lot."
"alot of this stuff sounds life nerfing for the sake of nerfing.the problem i see is sc's lack their own role.this idea probs wont be popular but i think it would give a purpose to each capital.but my idea is .........make dreads immune to fighter bombers and change the explosion radious on fighter bombers so they can *only* hit stationary targets.this would make it so that the role of dreads would again be anti-capital and/or poor mans sov bash ship.it would also force sc to have their own role as anti sov structures. would even be inclined to increase fb dps as they would only be able to hit non-dread stationary targets. the idea is that your scs would be your battering rams. they would still be extremly effective against sub caps with their neuts, sbs and fighters but would be very weak against other caps. however with a dps increase they could put down say 15k-20k dps against a sov structure.and in turn dreads would once again have a role as anti-capital as they would be the main defence against the sc battering ram.this is quite balenced imo as dreads in their current state are already very weak against regular subcaps and titans. but alas each ship as its own designated purpose."
"seriously??? just leave this thread please."
"hmmm no? admitablly it was an off the cuff idea but what makes it so outragiously wrong then ?all the above points mentioned are good at nerfing sc's but none of them really seem to address the issue of giving sc's their own unique role as well as giving a purpose back to dreads.dreads still have to seige and be stuck in place for 10 minutes in which time they are immune to rr. sc's can wipe dreads out with disgusting efficancy and are also currently better at taking down pos's and sov structures. my idea makes scs even more efficant at knocking out sov structures but gives dreads back a purpose of anti-capitals. at the moment dreads are simply eclipsed by scs."
"actually it has a role. the role you suggested is already taken(by dreads). they were introduced as anti structure weapon platforms. you want to make a supercap that effectively cant engage players anymore and is limited to sov structures. this is seriously the worst idea i have seen in this thread. that includes the guy who spams emotes."
"not really it only stops them from engaging other capitals.dreads are currently completly eclipsed atm by supercariers as they can apply more dps, ewar imunity, more mobility and rep-able (as they dnt have to seige).admitablly the idea was a bit too extreme. what about the opersite then, making it so super carriers can't hit sov structures.concept being you would use a dread fleet for high anti-sov structure dps and the supercarrier blobs would be pure anti-capital.im just trying to find a way to give dreads an actual usefull role that another ship cant already do 5x better. atm scs are just too all purpose (aka i win button)"
"if only someone had posted a thread suggesting a way to make supercarriers anti everything."
"supercarriers really suck at taking down control towers"
"lol your a bit of a d*** really arent you :pi like your original proposal as well as many of the other changes mentioned by other players, they would go along way towards balancing the ship as a hole.however none of these ideas seem to address the fact that scs leave dreads with very little purpose. was just trying to fire off ideas to give dreads some meaning other than sc fodder.the inability to be repd or move whilst in siege mean they are just to much of a liability compared to scs and even regular carriers.what do you suggest as a solution to giving dreads an active purpose in current cap-warfare?"
"no"
"james your just terrible. honestly wow, being a pilot that has flown with ed several time i know that he can be a little harsh. his proposal needs to be toned and i did as much earlier on. but the point is moot because ccp opening said in the minutes they do not want to nerf the sc. the the question that begs is how can it be changed then. one idea that was proposed to me earlier this week in a corp meeting was giving fb's a limited clip size for their bombs. this means they'd have to fly to the target attack until out of ammo then return to the sc for ammo, then reapproach target. this idea has pro's and con's but i wasnt much of a fan. the other idea that the same pilot proposed that i really enjoyed was a counter that was derived from the sub capitals it came in 2 ships1 a t2 destroyer hull. needs a modification to the auto target selector that allows this mod to be set up to target specific things like fighter bombers/ fighters/ dronesthen the t2 destroyer hull which has the function of being an anti drone platform, this hull would fit an auto target selector that would target the specific drone class (maybe through scripts) and the guns would cycle against the targetted drones.these would give support fleets a counter to the drone swarm. next the t2 cruiser torpedo boat, this ship would be an anti capital platform the same as a stealth bomber is an anti bs platform. it would fire citadels. but it would not cloak and would be a paper tiger. the idea being if defended by a support fleet and against a cap fleet or ship that is lacking a support fleet these ships would destroy caps. but if the enemy caps were protected by a support fleet these ships would easily die before being able to deal significant damage to the caps and supers.why is this line of thinking good?because if we continue making the counter to one ship, the next one on the food chain we won't have a cyclic system we will just have endless proliferation. if we make the pvp system cyclic as in subcaps<caps<supers<subcaps we will eliminate one motive for force escalation in terms of ship class or size.so the tl;dr is instead of nerfing sc's bring the counter into place in the sub capital arsenal. by doing this you make the force escalation for super capitals either more supers or more subcapitals. (and which is easier and costs less to field?)"
"ah sh*t the patch reset my default toon the above is me"
"i've been watching this thread, but i got to say.. james1122, get out."
"im juat waiting for the well my cruiser should beable to kill a carrier 1v1 because by the time i can fly a carrier there will be something else thats trying to kill me. \"omg i can almost fly a dread but sc's own dreads sooo lets nerf sc's so that dreads are cool . because im at least another 6 months from flying a sc and about the same for affording it.\"james's idea was neither a summation of previous ideas, new constructive idea, or an improvement on something previously stated. it was basically a cry to make sc's useless for pvp and dread fleets nigh invincible for pvp. its pretty obvious he falls into one of these categories1) his main can almost get into a dread and wants it to be more powerful or op.2) has a dread and does not like shooting sticks or waiting to enter a cap fight and click the russian roulette button for death known as siege.3) is part of an alliance that cannot field any supers and only has a dread fleet but wants to fight against supers and larger 0.0 fleets.4) honestly just has no grasp of capitals and cap warfare and 0.05) duhhh err i uhhhh i like post and errr myyyy name is james and my mommyyyy sayssss im spechial."
"because ccp said so?"
"although i agree scatim the problem lies in the word exclusively.ccp never stated they were designed to be used only as an anti capital battery. they just stated that would be the primary roll of the sc.i mean we really are just arguing the finer points of it. but the difference beingexclusive anti-cap platform cannot or would not be used to attack anything but capitals. no exceptions as that is their sole and only role. non-exclusive anti-cap platform can be used to attack all classes and variations of ships in eve, but excels at attacking capital class ships and has a primary use and purpose of attacking capital class vessels."
"bumping back up"
"the fact that a major graphics patch just came and went, with no changes to cyno, is evidence that the current management structure in ccp is flawed.they need to restructure, possibly replace the top management. or keep operating inefficiently."
"definitely support!having multi-year faces shoved into some tiny box (limited by skills/time/money) without some recourse sucks the big one."
"orks is best!"
"definitely yes. not everyone seems to understand it, but these kind of details are very important for some. when it's about a game they play and pay for voluntarily, their opinion should be taken into account and not criticized for being too picky or something. especially as allowing this would raise no issues with balance or game mechanics. also, it's not just the portrait - this was simply a test for the character creation system that will be used once we can walk around, and then such details will be even more important!"
"hello everyone,i have to agree with this overall. now, i don't think folks should be just changing races or bloodline just to be able to do it, but there are some very legitimate reasons to do so currently, and to be fair, i'm not harmed in any way if someone does want to change their race or bloodline for no reason whatsoever.when i chose my main originally, i wanted to play gallente, but hated the way they looked. but then i found vhorokhior (pardon me if i misspelled that). i liked the description, and was able to make a character that looked like a native american. i thought that was pretty cool. my wife looked over all the races and chose the same as she was able to create a really nice looking character portrait, that kinda looks like a sort of gypsy (roma if you prefer). now, we can both certainly make acceptable and even attractive characters. however, we can't make ones that are close to our old ones. heck, my wife can't make a character that looks even remotely similar. given that, why not be able to choose what we like best?new players get to look over everything and choose the one that looks best to them from among all the bloodlines. the existing playerbase gets to modify the bloodline they chose long ago. problem is, many folks chose them for appearance and now that appearance is (sometimes radically) different. since there are no mechanical benefits of being one bloodline or another, why not give the option to change once? i know it'd be a pain to code, but what isn't a pain to code? :/anyway, this idea has my firm support."
"i fully support this proposal. also, i don't have any problem giving ccp an extra $10 for this. as it is now, i can't see many people paying for the portrait swap just to fix a smile, or change their hair color. ccp is missing out on possible income here.when all male character portraits except the brutor, and amar looked feminine i chose to make a flashy looking female gallente. with this new character creator the range of possibilities has jumped immensely. i would like the chance to reboot my character in the new system even if i have to pay for it.the argument on the portrait swap page is weak in the first place. if someone changes their looks it doesn't erase the trail of wrongdoing they may have done in game. moreover, this is the future. if your prideful amarian ceo decides to turn into a chick with purple hair who gives a damn. it sounds like it enhances roleplay to me!get this done ccp!"
"so.. it's been 4 pages of supported, and still not even a csm response. great!"
"completely in agreement. i'd propose a full, one-time change of race and bloodline, there are no balancing issues involved here, this shouldn't be such a problem. i believe the only difference would be some minor attributes in the starter ship."
"supported."
"this. ffs, i'll even take seibestor instead. i'll stay minmatar just let me change to something that remotely looks like i used to."
"where are my tatoos? where are my implants?"
"signed, would be a fantastic idea. even if limited to amount of changes per so many monthseither way good idea"
"oh yes"
"still ignoring us, eh?"
"i don't have a particular problem with my current choices, but it would definitely be nice for other people.also might have the bonus of getting rid of the thousands of archura alts."
"i fully support a one time change to race/bloodline. when i started playing a year ago, all new characters started with the same skills/attributes/isk. the only reason i picked the race/bloodline i did, was because i liked the appearance.i spent around 6 hours making faces from all the different races/bloodlines before finally deciding on the one i did. now, overnight, he's turned completely asian and after spending 3 hours yesterday on trying to make him look non-asian, i had to shut off the computer and take a break."
"yes to race change."
"nay to free bloodline change. you can not change who you are.but it would be interesting to have possibility to buy \"cosmetic surgery\" to make you look like different race/bloodline."
"which is basibly changing bloodlines? the whole point of it is so we can look different."
"change of such magnitude schouldn<U+FFFD>t be available free of cost imho nor almost mandatory. like in the real world. you are not satisfied with your look? well bad luck, but you can always have plastic surgery to help you with that.on other hand there could be other way to make it work within eve-world logic. simply to put changes in your new clone, so you can change your race/bloodline as you wish but at cost of loosing your current clone along with all the implants and jumpclones.in principia i just hate the possibility of free race/bloodline change, just because someone does not like how does some race/bloodline looks like, without any other backroud reasons and plausible explanation how to do so within rules of the game-world."
"this thread is only for those that wish to vote yes, something needs to be done about the performance of hybrids on gallente ships. this thread is not for discussion of how to fix gallente! the purpose of this thread is to unify all those that see a problem with gallente and who wish to demand action from ccp, be that thru rebalancing the ships, the weapons or the ammo. please use the countless other threads for discussions on such matters."
"i support this message to ccp"
"."
"yes, something needs to be done."
"supported"
"sorry mate.. it's hard to support something; if you have no idea what it is. fix it, is a little uncertain; and it affects caldari too. not to say; that it fares any better on that side.i'll support it, because i agree that it needs fixing; but don't expect me to just x-up. i don't think 'fix-it' is particularly productive; perhap's, sometime, we can discuss how it could be made better. regardless, i'll respect your thread this much; and not toss in a...bah.. i just read your thread again; and can't bring myself to click on the 'support' box.."
"2.0"
"supportedhope that sanchas intell are not aware of gallente navy or actual ships or broken weaponery situation because gallente's will be exterminated in less than one week./bow his new sancha's leaders"
"1.0"
"yes, all number crunching leads to the conclusion hybrids are underpowered."
"gaylente.tee hee."
"yes gallente thier weapons systems thier ammo all need boosting... its up to ccp to come up with these fixzes and us to test them and complain about them in the future...but yes failente need to be fixed... as it stands i have around 10 million waisted sp in them..."
"supported"
"+1the standard balance for video games is closer to a weapon with 1/2 the range getting +25% the damage of its competitors. while this is a bit extreme, hybrid weapons should be closer to it than they are now."
"nonconstructive post but positive."
"taisuke be kind to edit your post and use the \"support thread\" hitbox please.and to coment your post i would say that yes, anything that is able to get close to a blaster boat should think twice because my shotgun doesn't cares of you if you are too far but when you came close to me looking for dance i'll give you an entire ballet. atm blaster are at the bar getting drunk, doesn't matter, whatelse can they do?"
"we were discussing this the other night as one of our crew fly's nothing but gallante ships and with the exception of the nyx there isn't a single ship the gallante have that is best in its class. sure there are some niche uses among certain ships(ganking, drone boat, etc.) but for mainstream purposes they are beat out by someone else virtually everywhere."
"supported"
"supported"
"supported."
"supported."
"i think any ship that uses a non-covert cloak that cloaks up that can't recharge cap is a nice addition to balance. what situations for non-sub capital ships would be severely hurt their operation? just don't throw out there all ships will be screwed over by this because that is not the case. please list some examples."
"part of the reason i want new module is to make the fitting requirement for capital cloaks higher. they shouldn't be so easy to cloak.as for sub-cap consequences - they are mostly annoyance. something that won't effect pvp in any noticeable way, just annoy thousands of people for no good reason."
"there is a more comprehensive thread that considers the super capital ship issue more holistically. point solutions such as this one won't solve the problem. if this was about stopping people cloaking up for hours and hours in any ship at all (other than covops/recon) then i'd actually be all for it. however cloaking to regen cap is not something i'd look to change. i'd probably go with something like \"cloak duration = 15 minutes, can be stopped at any time, but has a 5 min re-cloak timer\" to start with - to force 'visible' time onto any cloaked ship."
"hey look, it's the \"if you can't x then you didn't want it hard enough\", the non-argument people turn to when they can't think of any real reason for a mechanic to exist"
"a balanced reduction in caprecharge, provided by non-covert op's cloak's; as a included penalty, based on module quality, would be acceptable."
"an obviously good idea.edit: arguably, black ops ships should be excluded from this with a role bonus or something."
"anything without a role bonus or cov ops cloak shouldnt be able to regen cap. the afk cloakers that are ****ting up the thread dont really have any argument beyond \"waaa this isnt fair let us abuse cloaks\""
"wow, im shocked a cloak change that i can agree on that doesnt ruin cov ops cloakers"
"supportin this.also, how about a similar penalty to shield recharge?"
"you're only 'stupidly brave' if you're carrying out an action with a high risk involved, not just dropping your supercap on unsuspecting jump freighters."
"i was thinking about that but was worried it might not go over so well and the cap penalty not get the support. if there is enough people that think it would be a good addition as well, then i will add it to the op. after all, you can't armor repair while cloaked so it makes sense. again people, remember this is for all non-covert ops cloaks."
"oh think of the tears potential nice idea to nerf drive by dding."
"i support this with one caveat - that black ops and ships that fit covert cloaks are unaffected."
"epic idea is epic(so long as black ops arnt affected by said change)"
"i agree, op updated."
"i'd be for that."
"agreed!"
"i believe the entire cloaking mechanic should be re-evaluated after ccp removes local as intelligence tool.until that happens, afk cloaks are necessary to negate some of the power of local chat."
"anymore support/comments/rage about this idea or should i let it sink to the bottom of assembly hall?"
"its an exploit, it should be fixed."
"much easier to let the beacon stay for the duration, and add a clause saying without a character attached to beacon one cannot jump to it.plus, slap an aggression timer on cyno pilot for as long as field is open so he can't log-off/disappear immediately .. same as if stuck on beacon for duration."
"yes please"
"it wouldn't even harm the teen rating they wen't for from the esrb by removing pleasure hubs from stations. again...only asking for some realistic movement to breasts...not nudity."
"kinda sexist, isn't it? what about male beer bellies wobbling then? oh wait... we don't have that fat belly option..."
"i can't say i disagree. if we have a way to make our characters \"fat\" then a beer belly should jiggle too. i think the reason we don't is because you would think a pod pilot would be somewhat fit. the pod would only give them as much nutrition as they need to survive and stay healthy not get fat. but i digress..."
"and while you're at it, make sure you implement some skirts. couldn't find any in the nearest caldari prime's gap.edit: ohhhh, and jesus, footwear. how can a female toon live without her wardrobe stocked with shoes?"
"pleasure hubs must stay in game :]i'am against teen esrb for eve."
"if you really want jigglage just play world of wacraft. they have everything from 6-9\" wobble on female dwarves, even when they wear solid metal armor, to the worgen whose breasts jiggle when slapped during their /dance. on a more serious note, unless player model movements are so fluid that non-moving breasts are a major distraction i see no reason for breast development to be a major priority for the programmers.i'd much sooner see more variety in clothing, and yes underwear, as well as hair styles, hair and eye color (i really don't like that the \"all white\" eyes can only be white or that to get blue hair that looks fairly real i need to have white \"roots\" that comprise half the character's hair), and the option to pick a new race, or at least bloodline, for those poor unfortunate (vherokior) souls who have a race/bloodline that now does not suit them, or that they picked purely for mechanical reasons years ago and are now stuck with something they wouldn't have chosen had race not affected mechanics back then.i'm all for jiggling, but not for spending significant time on something i'll spend all of 5 minutes paying attention to just so i can say, \"yeah, she jiggles.\""
"the legion needs to be fixed. in almost every single role the other t3's perform significantly better: missioning, ratting, buffer pvp, active tank pvp, the list goes on. and the reason is a fundamental lack of focus.there are a few things that an amarr t3 cruiser should not have:1. it should not have the ability to have 5 medium slots.2. it should not have the ability to have only 3 low slots!!!!3. it should not have a laser capacitor bonus in a configuration with only 4 lasers.a few small changes could make the legion radically better by improving its crappy configurations, while leaving its already good setups completely untouched.first, remove the medium-slot conversion for the covert ops and drone offensive subsystems. none of the other t3's have slot changes for their offensive subs, why should the legion?second, change the defensive subs so that they alternate a high slot with a medium, instead of a high with a low. the tengu absolutely needs med slots, so it cannot go below 5 of them. in the same way, the legion needs low slots, making any configuration with less than 5 of them a crippled ship. this is not flexibility, it's a trap for the players to fall into.the current slot boundaries for the legion are as follows:low: 3-7medium: 3-5high: 5-7what i'm proposing would turn it into this:low: 5-7medium: 2-4high: 5-7for reference, the tengu is this:low: 2-5medium: 5-7high: 5-7it seems pretty clear that the tengu's options play to its strengths, while the legion's are counter-intuitive and some are even self-destructive. the proteus cannot have less than 5 low slots, and the loki has defensive subs that support either kind of tank.---one thing i want to make very clear: this change would do absolutely nothing to buffer-laser fits. it would do nothing to 1800dps-tanked 250dps-dealing ham fits. what it would affect are the drones+interdiction nullifier fits that nobody uses, and the 400dps-tank ratting setups that have lower stats than a drake.if you have any doubts as to the imbalance here, just look at market data for the t3 ships. people sell maybe 1/5 as many legions as they do tengus, yet the buffer and laser subsystems remain at a high price. it's because they're the only subsystems people use. the only good legion fits have 6+ low slots, and any subsystem layout with fewer than 5 results in a terrible ship.---regarding the missile subsystem, i think the current damage numbers are tuned perfectly. the tengu does more damage if it uses kinetic hams, while the legion does more for the other 3 ham types. however, that doesn't mean assault optimization should just stop at 2 bonuses while every other offensive sub has either 3 bonuses, or drones. (counting cov ops cloaking as 2)so, i propose the legion ham subsystem gain a 5%/level bonus to explosion velocity. this will also be needed because the tweaked legion will find it much harder to fit webs, a key part of ham strategy.alternatively, assault optimization could gain 25/25 drone bay/bandwidth. i'm not suggesting both of these be added, but one of them is needed to bring it up to the standard.---finally, change the covert ops subsystem to a damage or even rof bonus. it's got 4, maybe 5 guns, who cares how much cap they take? people just use autocannons on their cov-ops legions with 3-4 low slots. you know, so they can cloak, fly to the station and get their cov-ops cloaking, ganking tengu.i very much hope that ccp will take a look at the strong evidence i've gathered here and make some small changes that will go a long way.to anybody who actually read this entire post, i sincerely thank you."
"the big problem with the legion, it's only because ccp make some crazy choice with amarr.normaly the legion must be configured :cruiser hasreconew - cruiserwhen you are caldary that is not really a problem because in all case you tank shield and the weapons it's at 80 % missiles.amarr :has like zealot (tanking armor, no drone, weapons laser)has like sacrilege ( tanking armor, small drone, weapons heavy assault missile) extra capacurse and pilgrim ( tanking mixte , massive drone , more missile than laser ) ewthe legion with the configuration sacrilege or curse is good. but the version zealot is not terrible. the best way will be perhaps in this configuration to make +1 low and -1 medium slot. that will be better than now."
"supporting my own proposal. i think a lot of the people who cared about the legion in the past have moved on and are no longer monitoring these threads. i will artificially keep bumping this if i have to, because i believe it's a clear improvement and no good argument can be made against it."
"yes the legion needs something."
"i support the general idea of shifting 1 medium slot into low slot for legion"
"i can't remember the last time i saw someone flying a legion. lokis? yes. proteuses? yes. tengus? i fly one myself. legions? hell no."
"actually i'll go so far as to say i want gallente ships to be the fastest. ideally we'd have a situation where the gallente ships are the fastest, but minmatar are almost as fast, while being much more agile."
"you can catch them pretty easy by overheating a cycle. without fitting speed mods that is.the way overheating mechanics and overview updates are right now, it is way easier to get in range than to maintain range."
"i think it's better to balance hybrids before deciding what kind of balancing gallente needs.imo fixing hybrid and change all armor repair bonus to top velocity bonus would fix it."
"this would make minmatar worse not gallente better, if gallente could reliably catch minmatar ships with there current stats minmatar would become useless"
"sported"
"not really. the performance of minnie ships would be unchanged vs. the other racial ships. you would just see different fits. you'd see a lot more armor hurricanes rather than these bastardized shield ones."
"they couldn't neut out the gallente ships with their two high utility slots? or they couldn't one shot ships with their massive artillery alpha?they couldn't fit a web or two and kite the gallente ship with their longer range weapons?or they find some other way to fit their ship with the large pg and cpu available (along with the easiest fitting requirements of any short range turret by far)?the entire problem right now is that minmatar ships are better at the gallente niche than gallente ships. 1) their hulls are better, and 2) autocannons > blasters (easier to fit - don't need fitting mods, selectable damage, no cap usage, better range, yada, yada, yada). please ccp do something!"
"no you wouldnt see any armor hurricanes, because they would be outperformed by every other armor battlecruiser by a huge margin.shield fits are being used because they allow them to fill the role the ships are supposed to fill, which requires them to have room for 4-5 weapon upgrades."
"that's a completely ridiculous assertion on its face. you're talking about a system that can get 70k ehp, goes over 1km/s with 3 trimarks (that's currently, imagine if we changed the trimark penalty), has plenty of room for ewar, does over 700 dps, has no cap issues with the weapons, gets selectable damage types, and can still project dps to about 20-25km. compare that with a harbinger and you've got a ship that's faster, meaner, has better tracking, and has much better armor resists to the type of damage the harb is going to be doing. not to mention you can lose a little dps and gain the use of two medium neuts. and gallente bcs stack up even less favorably against it."
"show me the armor hurricane that has 70k ehp, does 700 dps and projects this damage to 25km please. you are just cherry-picking stats from shield and armor fits and claim they all apply to the armor fit.just to get a bit of reality in here, the 70k ehp armor cane does a bit over 600 dps at point blank (same for harbinger), about 500 at 7km (compared to still over 600 for harbinger) 250 dps non-selectable damage at 20km (compared to 520dps harbinger). that is a harbinger with fmps btw, if we drop the medium neut in favor of a mixed hpl/fmp rack, its even more skewed.in other words, there is a reason nobody flies armor canes these days, the harbinger does that job just a whole lot better."
"we got futanari in t-shirt form! high five to ccp for the schlongshirt!please visit your user settings to re-enable images.no way was that an accident."
"it's a 'no' vote from me as it stands; the 'projection of power' problem isn't only a jump bridge problem. it's a jump bridge / cyno / we can move 500 ships to defend an ihub 3 regions away which allows us to hold 30 stations problem. as long as 'cost of owning system < profit from owning system or renting it out' is true, then the will to grab more space and fill it with pets or renters (pets who have to buy their own petfood) will be strong.whatever the solution is, it needs to make it much harder to project power and hold huge swaths of space. jbs are probably part of the solution but not all of it."
"jump bridges were discussed along with a number of other things that ccp have been mulling over. the csm didn't just agree blindly with ccp's ideas and other options were also discussed. any changes to 0.0 would be part of a proper iteration not just a nurf to jb. logistics etc might be changed but there were all kinds of other things discussed that might make that unnecessary.as things like jb and logistics were ccp pitching ideas of course there are no csm proposals on this and it was impossible to discuss the issues with the players before hand. yes the csm had some ideas from previous discussions but should ccp want to further discuss iteration on 0.0 the players will be consulted and it won't be just the current csm.of course ccp reserve the right to do whatever they like no matter how much the csm or players as a whole say.so with that out of the way, ccp think that it is an issue that shared jump bridge networks allow people to cross the universe in a relativity short time. yes it takes an investment and coordination to pull it off, but it also makes it less risky to attack another region if you can quickly return home to defend with the same fleet. rather than calling everyone ******ed, you have to explain to ccp why this isn't really an issue. csm have already stated both sides of this argument.of all the ideas i was personally interested in drive spool up time based on jump distance as well as sized cynos. only if it is done right of course (cue the :lolccp: comments )anyway the message over all wasn't \"csm want to nerf jump bridges\" it was \"csm want ccp to commit to iterating on 0.0 including fixing sov (treaties etc) and taking a look at supercap roles\". it remains to be seen if they will dedicate the development to it..."
"just so it's clear then, did the entire csm agree that jb's could (should?) be removed from the game, or was it just the three csm delegates who said they had no problem removing them? were there other changes discussed wrt jb's, or was the mega-nerf the only on on the table? again, to clarify, the minutes made it seem that the real objection wasn't so much travel speed, but that ccp doesn't like coalitions or how the playerbase has divided up nullsec space. and, essentially, ccp was trying to find game mechanics ways to change how players cooperate in nullsec. is that accurate, or am i misreading the minutes/the minutes misstated what happened? can you link to and/or summarize what the csm stated as the best arguments for both sides? it'd be a bit easier to address the meat of the issue if we know what's already been said and what we're responding to. i will support this only if you work to get the nyx model changed to a battlestar."
"agreed it would be a good thing for them to go.but as long as you have titan bridges as well this will simply increase demand for \"titans online\" which is even worse.....so on balance, i would rather have jump bridges than titans....."
"crap like this is why the csm is just a bunch of @ss clowns. nothing but a pr joke. all that space will become nothing more than low sec unclaimed territory because alliances won't want to pay a sov bill for something that can move resources or assets to without making it an 8-hour g0d damn project.you guys are absolutely worthless. i will gladly pod each and every one of you if i ever get the opportunity."
"before revelations 2 was released in mid-2007 and jump bridges seeded, nearly all of 0.0 sov was divided between 3 major powerblocs (the rsf, gbc, and nc). the only real exceptions were providence (because cva lived there) and the drone regions (because ra were still fighting in the south east and hadn't yet fractured to create solar fleet and xdeath).but clearly its all the fault of the jump bridges, right guys?"
"fact is, we want to gank your unscouted freighters. all there is to it. right now we can't, because even when they might go unscouted, they will do so at a deathstar pos, no more than 1-2 jumps away (via jb) from your blob. you can keep your naps, we just want to weed out your dumb pilots.take jbs away and we can ambush your freighter unless it's escorted properly. and even then, we'll probably try and go for it anyway, so you'll only get more pvp, and also probably lose a couple freighters now and then.or, allow us to scramble/bubble jbs. if a jb is pointed or bubbled, noone can jump through, not even from the other side. this way bears get to keep their effort free logistics, but it allows someone to gank them without having a 100 man blob showing up 30 seconds after the freighter is tackled.also, i haven't been around before jbs, i've used jbs often, and i've done logistics to 0.0 both with and without jbs. and i still want them gone, along with local, jump freighters, and other such crap. and yes, i own a jump freighter too, and wouldn't want it gone, but that doesn't change the fact that it's ******edly overpowered."
"it wasn't a session where csm voted on ideas so there isn't anything recorded as to how many people supported the idea or not. most people agreed that jbs should be looked at as part of a proper iteration on 0.0 (and fixing the sov changes). yes a number of other changes to jbs were discussed and some objections were also mentioned. it was a small part of the whole iterating on 0.0 discussion including \"where are the fecking treaties\". the two are related. with shared jb networks it is possible for a large group of blues to go help an ally many regions away and be back home in time for their own rf timers. ccp believe this to be a problem. they think that if jbs are scaled back in some way (plus other ideas, please understand that jbs will not be changed in isolation!) that alliances will find fights closer to home (even if that means resetting nearby blues). i don't have the transcript here so i can't quote exactly. also please note that ccp brought this up without prior warning so we only had 15-20 mins to discuss this stuff (which is why this was not a session with voting on ideas but more a discussion of areas to look at in future). so as a very high level summary:on the one side you have scaling back jbs to make large naps less able to move their frontline to any part of their space so quickly (again for the x'th time this in combination with other things)on the other side you concerns about making fleet logistics and movement through large areas of space more tedious (and that it would annoy vuk).i'm more interested to hear reasoned opinion from other players because passing that on to the right people at ccp is what we do.i think it would be easier to modify the hel, plus it needs some reason for people to fly it"
"the big (read: extremely humongous) differences are that back then you had to plan campaigns thoroughly and in advance. allies on the periphery had to be able to hold their own, sometimes for days, until reinforcements could get there.strategy went out the window with bridges everywhere; you can no longer split a coalitions forces with multi-pronged assaults, you can attack + defend and be home for tea with one massive fleet.war has become a casual instant gratification thing with far fewer people and intelligence needed .. i'd even say that the pvp'er/carebear ratio in null took a nosedive when bridges became omnipresent as one hardcore group of pew lovers can cover unlimited space.in short: yeah, bridges are pretty much to blame for amny of the null woes."
"sounds like someone wants to re-assert control of a situation. ;-)"
"i personally don't care what kind of nap fests and power blocks there are in 0.0. i'm not trying to break eve into smaller political entities.the only thing i care about is good pvp, strategic and tactical"
"there are numerous problems with that, however. the first is that they aren't really related. we had huge coalitions before jb's were put into the game. we had a huge coalition fall apart, twice, even after jb's were put into the game. the second is that they don't actually work that way, anyways. pl's recent actions against the nc showed that not only was the nc not able to get back and forth easily, but they had to call off an entire invasion in order to go back home and deal with pl. i've also been in many large fleets over the years, and after hours of traveling, trying to load grid, fighting, reshipping, etc... the last thing a large fleet is normally fit to do is go racing across the map for another fight. people want to stand down, almost all the time.it's also disturbing to see that ccp has set up a sandbox where players create the content and drive the storyline, and then ccp's decided that they're doing it wrong. the content and story shouldn't be able large power blocs, it should be able smaller ones. well... why? do the players decide what 0.0 looks like, or not? because if we don't, then ccp needs to stop advertising the game as if players get to decide the politics in 0.0 space. to say nothing of the fact that if people want to blue everything within 50 jumps and deploy to a forward zone just to pick on someone, that's part of sandbox play. ccp can't have their cake and eat it too. they advertise the game as one in which massive battles are possible and players shape the universe. it's a game philosophy that's gotten ccp the kind of publicity you can not buy in the pages of papers like the ny times. and instead they seem to want to say \"no, you are sandboxing wrong! create a player-created world the way we want it to be created.\" one of the main problems is that jb's provide a benefit to ownership and continued control; build up the sov level and you get a way to avoid standard gate camps and get your ships into cynojammed systems. remove it and what replaces it? sov holders get, what, more sanctums? it seems that the real problem is that ccp is trying to micromanage a game that's supposed to be player-created in terms of content. if there weren't coalitions, it seems ccp would have no problem with alliance-level jb networks. but as soon as people start cooperating and deploying/defending as groups, then it's an issue of \"no, you are sandboxing wrong!\" and what's the next step if this doesn't work? obviously this is largely about breaking up power blocs. what happens when jb's are removed and the nc doesn't tear itself apart? does ccp admit it's wrong and put jb's back in or, more likely, do we see another round of changes designed to accomplish an in-game political change through mechanics alterations? perhaps i was unclear. i will support that if you make my nyx a battlestar. **** all the rest of the nyxes."
"finnagain zero, it is wrong to think that political environment in eve is the main reason for changing jb. ccp doesn't care, or shouldn't care, about nc or its nap fests.what they should care about is how jb effect war strategy of eve and dynamics of pvp.of course it's still valid to discuss how removal of jb would effect political scene, just don't make the mistake of thinking it's the reason for change."
"sounds fun escorting frieghters for the first time but after doing escort ops like that it will make you want to shoot your self after the third time especially when it is 40+ jumps. though camping gates for frieghters sounds fun for the ones with the blob that is. though without jb everyone would use carriers and titans to move stuff around and nerfing jump portals would remove the main reason to have a titan.though raising the 0.0 entry bar to must have own carrier (unless they get nerfed to the point of cant leave home system/region) does not sound like a good idea.edit:if i remember right they were also talking about removing jf and titan bridges, but for the adverage non-cap pilot moving his stuff around will be a pain."
"apparently you haven't heard of jump freighters or titan bridges"
"that's not supported by the minutes. which are things that would also be nerfed along with jb's."
"the nerfs proposed for cyno mechanics deal specifically with hot drops.unless you plan to jump/bridge your freighter into a hostile gang, the cyno nerfs will not effect you. other than maybe add 30~ seconds waiting"
"those are not the only changes being discussed by ccp."
"now that we've all been playing with the character creator a bit, i thought it might be useful to gather together some suggestions on improving the character creator user interface -- in particular, quick tweaks that will make life easier.hopefully, the result will be a proposal that the csm can raise.i will kick it off with a few that occurred to me...* you should be able to tell the avatar to \"stop fidgeting, dammit!\" you often cannot see that a small change has in fact been made, because the avatar moves.* fine adjustments of particular sculpting and posing elements can be very difficult, especially if you are on a laptop (or mac) and are getting low framerates - it often takes several seconds for a tweak to actually happen. therefore, once you have grabbed something (and while still holding the mouse button down), the arrow keys (and/or wasd triangle, for example) should bump the feature setting one unit in the desired direction, and shift+key should move it multiple units.* in conjunction with the above, visual feedback that a change has occurred (not just the change itself, which might be subtle) would be helpful.* a \"reset to midrange\" key would be nice too.* scrolling through the lists of clothes, backgrounds, etc can also be a bit awkward. shortcut keys for moving through the currently selected list would also be very, very handy.* during posing, when adjusting facial features, there should be a way to choose whether to make symmetrical or asymmetrical changes to a feature.* at any time during character creation, you should be able to save the current state to a file or into the clipboard in some encoded text form, and restore state in a similar way. why? because it makes possible the in-game profession of professional avatar image consultant (and will increase usage of the upcoming character resculpt feature, btw...). you should also be able to save the state of a completed avatar (so you can send it off to your consultant for a make-over...)"
"absolutely won't use facebook under any circumstances."
"idea of broken/wrecked stations is old. the main reason why gms always rejected it is that station is huge storage of player items. and it's impossible to totally destroy station with everything inside of it.this wall of text contains implementation details which avoid destroying of player items, but still allows to destroy station (naturally put it in broken or wrecked state).when station moves into broken state:1. every station office is closed and all items from corp hangars moves into impounded items.2. all player hangars remains as they are.3. station services (cloning/fitting/repair etc) are shut down and can't be repaired while station is in broken state.4. broken station have limited docking ability in following way: station don't have standing filter or other docking restrictions, everyone can dock, only capitals can't dock to the broken station because of damaged docking bay. (viva piracy in sector of broken station)5. in system with broken station can't be built new one.6. broken station can't play defensive role in the sov warfare.7. optional in order to return station to the good shape (turn to the regular). sovereignty should be acquired for the system. players should make investments for reconstruction: heal 100+k of structure hp (yeah use remote hull repairs for awhile), after that station will have pocket where to place materials (like half of the materials for new egg of this type + usual materials for station of this type).what we have with broken stations feature:1. ability to make damage to the alliance assets without capturing territory2. place for some categories of players who will live in this sector without standing (place for ship storage only, will have to use pos fitting or gang ship maintenance) like pirates.3. there is no need to care about stuff of players who didn't play for awhile. they will be able to login and haul their stuff out.4. minus one functioning stationfew ideas how to brake station:1. possible special ship needed to broke station2. station have to be in system with no sovereignty in order to reach broken state2. broking should take big interval of time, during which defenders could save it. and it should take man hours for the attacker during which they should shoot station for a some constant damage per hour.3. or possible 3rd rf cycle.p.s> storyline for the idea of broken stations could be tied to sansha invasion: they came and taught capsuleers how to brake stations.edit: spelling and typos"
"+1 need more hadrcore in 0.0"
"i support this idea"
"i support this idea"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"i support this idea"
"+1there are too many stations in space )"
"oh yeah, there are too many outposts already. we need a way to get rid of them!"
"1.0"
"would be nice to have them destructible!"
"destructible - yes!but \"2. place for some categories of players who will live in this sector without standing (place for ship storage only, will have to use pos fitting or gang ship maintenance) like pirates.\" - it's a bad idea. 0.0 full of @undock-warriors\" pffff"
"undock warriors can't repair ships on broken station and can't use fitting..."
"1.0"
"i support this idea"
"1.0"
"yeee"
"i support this idea"
"this would actually be kinda kool, with a little tweaks i can see it being pretty awesome in 0.0 and maybe low-sec.edit: support"
"1.0"
"agree"
"i support this idea"
"1.0"
"o yes)))) +100500"
"1.0"
"+0,5 because:briiliance idea but it would be better interesting and hardcorely to modify the given mechanism:to receive control over station, the person with a certain role in corporation or skill, should enter into dock of station and reprogram the stati"
"i agree with the concept.destroying stations outright is probably a step too far, but allowing a degree of scorched-earth where stations can be smashed up to the extent that they barely function as anything other than hangar storage, and that fixing them is no longer simply a matter of sitting on the undock with remote rep carriers, could be interesting."
"+1 i support no question"
"yea would be fun."
"seems ok"
"+1good idea"
"as long as the procedure for breaking a station is labour intensive and not something one can do on a whim. as well as being something that is defendable and stoppable. the added isk sink is nice, as long as its done right. though i believe that parts of the services should be available such as the ability to update your clone. as if you log in after being afk and the station is borked and you do not have an updated clone your p.much screwed."
"providence must die"
"fo real"
"i want to add a little to the previous post.it is possible to import flexibility and a variety to idea, at least such moment:probably, when the station functions, it supports serviceability of all vital subsystems, such as oxygen submission, overlapping of the depressurized bays for preventing of leak of oxygen, power supplies of subsystems, controll of nanites, function of a docking berthing-tow and operation of various other automated processes.it is possible to present that for station repairing, it is necessary to bring to it some industrial ships with spare parts, such as robotics, coolant, oxygen, water, mechanical parts, nanites, superconductors, water-cooled cpu, enriched uranium, robotics, nuclear reactors, ukomi super conductors, supercomputers, high-tech transmitters, recursive computing module, nano-factory, sterile conduits, wetware mainframe, self-harmonizing power core or maybe any salvaged materials.and this is only for bring station online for the further reprogramming of its \"brain\" that the corporation became the owner.for example, it is possible to enter an element of randomness.putting out of action station, players never know for certain that they will partly or completely damage in it.the amount of necessary spare parts for station coercion in a working type, should be generated in a random way and be displayed to all players.the parts of station destroyed or put out of action can be, as of what it is under construction (station storage bay, station storage bay, station construction parts, station office center and other), and any new invented.it can be necessary here also skills of mechanics, electronics and engineering, but skill outpost construction isn't necessary.the amount of resources necessary for repair if the station isn't destroyed completely, should be always less, than it is necessary for construction of new such station.the given method of revival of station, can urge on necessity to extract planetary resources and will import some harcore difficulty in station capture. actually this can bring more realism in to stations sieges."
"1.0"
"k, whatever."
"it's a step in the right direction.some mechanic needs to be developed to completely destroy a 0.0 outpost."
"so after creating my characters new avatar and taking his photo it only took about 3 hours before i realized i wasn't too happy with the pose. character is fine but the pose kinda sucks. a thought occured to me...one that many before me have probably thought of and maybe there is even a few posts about this already but here it is anyway.when incarna releases let's have barber shops and photo booths. i don't think changing gender or race and bloodline is necessary as a feature that can be used at will...maybe a one time deal since some pretty drastic changes have come about with the new character creator but the ability to change hairstyles, beards and portraits would be good.this could also be an isk sink. there is no reason to limit how often it can be done. let us change our portraits as often as we can afford to at a cost. same with hairstyles and beards. this can be something obviously found in stations. another reason for us to get out of our pods and walk around a bit. frankly no matter how awesome i make my portrait or how perfect my characters hair is...eventually i will get bored with it and want to change it.a lot of other games do this. i don't think it is too much to ask. they are minor details in the game and should be easy to implement. eve can also always use another isk sink and this is a decent way to do it since a lot of people will do this. 2 mil for a shave and a cut...most expensive haircut ever. 5 mil for a picture to be taken...ok...maybe the prices are a bit off but ccp can figure that one out...that's why they pay those economists right?(just for the record i do have some faith in ccp that they have already thought of this and will implement it. it's a very basic feature found in most if not all modern mmo's.)"
"i was just thinking of this today, needed. lower cost though, 200,000 isk tops"
"yes because photo technology is super expensive.5kk for a picture is insane. 5kk could build a whole city on some planet."
"that is funny...never seen anybody describe a million with kk. anyway...out of my entire post all you could think about was the price of taking a picture?"
"mi<U+FFFD>cro<U+FFFD>trans<U+FFFD>ac<U+FFFD>tions"
"they should make hair grow so players who havn't logged in for years end up looking like hagrid and then they have to get it cut. would be awesome."
"ah...thanks ccp!*feels a bit silly*"
"hell yes"
"an idea that would succeed in getting people out of highsec"
"b00bz r 3p1c"
"agreed to all"
"only if concord intervened lol"
"the 1980's called. it wants its slang back."
"saying yes to a feature that must be part of an ultimate sci-fi simulator."
"fact that this thread still isnt locked or removed shows ccp doesnt even read this forum section but things from gd get pushed around to the \"proper section\".now you know why people post eveything in gd ccp.+1 btw edit:come to notice there isn't even a single blue bar on the front page other than on the sticky threads.why do you people even waste your time here?troll whine in gd and you will at least have your thread read."
"mi<U+FFFD>cro<U+FFFD>trans<U+FFFD>ac<U+FFFD>tions"
"i saw on some random a$$ website something that looked like screen shots of bars/clubs? on stations. in these bars were gambling machines that looked like the one on han solo's ship. was i high on boosters or did anyone else see that? my point? yeah... i got one. if gambling is going to be okay i think ccp should throw in other forms of entertainment. yay pixel boom boom!"
"not going to happen.the most you might get is some exotic dancers."
"1.0"
"back to the top!!!"
"i completely agree, i hate the dark layer, my personal opinion is that it should be removed completely. i gain absolution nothing by having it there. if i want to know if i am too high or low i simply move the camera to look at it horizontally, no indicators needed."
"i refuse to move back to wormhole space until this is fixed."
"have any of you bothered to scan since the patch. they did a stealth fix of this.ccp changed the scanning \"dot\" to some difficult to see arrow-like icon, tho. the dot needs to return."
"supported.textures on stations and capships are dated."
"make super capitals lose their immunity to ewar when ewar is delivered by other capitals and super capitals. this is a tweak, not the nuke from orbit approach that ccp usually takes when making changes."
"would make armor capitals op because shield capitals would have to sacrifice tank to fit ewar"
"this is as opposed to the shield capitals that use cprs for cap instead of cap rechargers amirite? -liang"
"we arent talking supers here chief. even if we were no good wyvern pilot would fit a cpr over cn pduand if your active tanking you will probably go cf over cpralso remember that cpr's and cf's have distinct drawbacks for shield tanks while cr's dont have a draw back for armor tanks."
"yep just like we see with the drake blobs, everyone would forget about any tank at all and just fit warp disruptors."
"comments:- anyone fitting a cap flux to a capital ship is a moron.- we are talking about capital ships - not just supercapitals- people already fit warp disruptors and/or sensor boosters to their shield tanked capitals. why do you feel this changes anything?- armor tankers who burn their mids on warp disruptors and sensor boosters have **** all for capacitor (and therefore rr and/or local tank) compared to shield caps that burn lows on cprs.-liang"
"liang this doesnt apply just to points it applies to ecm sensor damps webs and tracking disruptors. all of these are denied by the ewar immunity.so this is why im against your idea because you would see caps webbing off supers, carriers tracking distrupting titans and damping sc's.i cannot agree to thisalso to the capacitor mods argument im a firm supporter of giving cap rechargers an armor draw back. say reduce armor hp overall..."
"two things:- not my idea- the seems to be primarily about caps/supercaps being able to tackle supercapitals.that's just ******ed.-liang"
"cant be that f*cked as cprs reduce shield booster cycle time, and cfr's reduce shield hp overall.and how do you propose the lack of immunity to points from capitals but not from any other ship without giving capitals a bonus to point and scram strength (which is what makes supers immune to points and webs.)i mean f*ck i'd love to beable to web my titan when i wanna warp away quickly."
"cprs are significantly more powerful than cap rechargers and the penalties are stacking nerfed. this has been gone over repeatedly. cap flux = moron. cap recharger = ok. cap power relay = ****ing epic zomg win.i'd personally implement it by letting them mount capital mid slot wdfgs. but that isn't the point - the point is the idea that cap and supercaps can tackle supercaps.-liang"
"the rmt was my point, another asked me to add the margin trading problem. i prolly shoulda done some more research first as i don't do anything like that, but in the moment i just added it. in the end though, you can have a negative balance if ccp intervenes. it can work both ways really, ccp can give negative balances to both the buyer and the seller, ccp keeps the accounts on the books and those users get nothing.perhaps instead of banning botters, ccp could just give negative balances to them and boom"
"margin trading is not a \"problem\". i, however, support the idea. penalized characters should not be deletable untill the penalty is removed (ie, negative wallet)."
"i have a simple proposal. let us always be able to make new photos of our character. that means access to the screen that allow you to tweak poses/lighting etc..not asking for tweaking my face again - but i would think that a capsuleer would be able to afford having new pictures taken, whenever he/she wanted to. this should include changing clothes, redoing makeup, taking off glasses etc but not the shape of your face or the size of your boobs. only changing the stuff that is not tied to genetics, mkay? and seriously, redoing makeup and taking a new photo does not cost a plex. you might want to cap the number of times a year we can take new photos though. up to you, ccp.thanx"
"supported!"
"supported!!"
"i'd love this but i expect they are going to microtransaction this in the future =(well supported anyways."
"supported, i think they will have a photo booth in incarna tho"
"dumbass me forgot to support my own proposal."
"yes pls."
"yeah man, look at how they caught me off guard, now i'm stukc wiff diz ****ty pic"
"better than allowing petition to redo portraits it would be easier to offer a free change for everyone during grace period"
"mi<U+FFFD>cro<U+FFFD>trans<U+FFFD>ac<U+FFFD>tions"
"supported!"
"supported"
"i got as close to my original as i could, but for some reason the vherokior are now mongolians?!(nothing against mongolians, nice hardy people)supported."
"agree. sketchy on-screen help, plus the four photo things don't give a super accurate idea of how you're actually going to look on forums/chat windows/etc."
"agreed and signed"
"agreed. it's difficult to tell exactly how you will appear in-game based on those 4 snapshots in the last creation screen. some details i didn't desire became a bit more pronounced that otherwise didn't show on creation.also, it's easy for a brand new pilot to make a new avatar by simply re-rolling a new pilot because no time has been spent training the pilot. it's an entirely different story when a vet has spent years training to 30-50 million sp's or more and is suddenly forced to make a high-stakes, prominent decision that lasts for eternity. ~lz"
"while i am happy with my end result i agree some folks need some more chances to do the right face up . . . supportedm"
"i wholeheartedly agree with this! indeed, the documentation for the character creator has been severely lacking. i didn't even know you could do things with the editor until it was too late!honestly, i'm usually not one to try and get free stuff; but in this case, i feel it's more than reasonable we get at least 1 free redo chance. please, ccp, have a heart! :)also, the page which will generate your actual portrait comes severely short on information (as overall, btw). didn't realize you could zoom out there with the mouse-wheel (in a way that would affect the actual portrait). or that you could tilt your head, and rotate 3d and such (the controls for which are purely a matter of guessing).a few guys experimenting a bit on youtube != official ccp documentation!i understand that time-constraints probably played a part in not getting the documentation done. which is all the more sad, actually, as eve's new character creator is, hands down, the very best in the industry! honestly, i've never seen anything quite like it. i would call it quite a break-thru even. mass effect's equivalent, for example, is vastly, vastly inferior.having said the above, and realizing the incredible importance our 3d character can play (immersion and role-play wise) with the upcoming incarna, i can only reiterate my request that ccp please allow people a grace period to 'get it right,' figuring out stuff for themselves where the documentation has been lacking."
"what she said. ^"
"this quote is appropriate here as well.i support this thread, too."
"agreed. i'm still waiting on a petition response from 12 hours ago so i can only imagine how long it will take til i can redo my avatar properly (after thinking i was able to redo it as many times as i liked during the grace period)."
"now i hope you can understand why i want to have 1 name change as well.im stuck with this name for life - and didnt know it was gonna follow me for life.same arguement for all who veto'd that idea.misery likes company"
"i agree with the grace period, but it matters not to me if i am stripped of my tattoo's. are we going to rewrite my minmatar history. i feel naked and cheeted. if it was a desions between sunglasses or tattoo's, let me recycle these silly glasses. i know i am not he only minmatar that feels this way."
"aye hair did not show up for me in the chreator so was hard to see what she would look like. hesitant to do my main atm for similar reason as i don't know what the portrait may look like."
"wholly agreed.all of the options from the original character generator should have been available in the new one, at the very least, so that people have the option of replicating their initial characters if they so chose.also... eye colors are washed out and terribly bland, likewise hair hues.overall, it's pretty, but i'm far, far from satisfied with it. the old avatars should be kept in game until all of the options are returned and no 'forced change' implemented until such time."
"supporting"
"hair issue here as well."
"supporting this thread"
"yep"
"supported.this has been redicious.these aren't characters that can be sc****d when a mistake is made. these are years old characters!i'm actually angry about this.get off your arse ccp."
"support"
"supported. not for multiple opportunities, however; i believe everybody should be given the chance to recreate their character's once after 2 weeks. no more, and no less. i looked in local today, and found myself in agreement; with most of what you said, exception for that. it looks like a lot of player's just threw it together; while some took the time to think about it. i went for the latter myself; but, benefitted from practice on sisi as well. a lot of players didn't take the time or opportunity; to pop on sisi, and try the new character creator out. some of what i saw, was of course awesome."
"considering the replies in the feedback threads, looks like a redo option should be offered.instructions were not clear, and many people are very unhappy - supported"
"supported. cc is way too powerful tool for most players. give us time to get it right."
"agreed"
"supported.i also strongly vote for a (one time only) change in race/bloodline, due to the big difference between the old and new choices."
"i agree with this."
"i look bad."
"look at how my hair got messed up!to the left is my hair as seen when i log in; to the right is what apparently became my portrait. :( see the gross clipping errors? (part of her jacket protrudes thru her hair). i do not like that discrepancy. ccp, can't you rerender the forum portrait? (sans the clipping errors, onegai shimasu).plus, the 4 thumbnails were way too small (and, as it turns out, not really wysiwyg).also, i like role-playing my char (mmorpg = mostly men online role playing girls). seriously, though, i never really got to do rpg stuff in eve; primarily, of course, because eve hardly offered much in that way. with incarna coming this may change, though. allow me to let you in on a little public secret about role-playing folks: we are ueber-ocd when it comes to details, like... messed up hair, and/or other clipping errors. :) they need to go.now, the eve character creator is astoundingly beautiful. but it's obviously an unfinished product. it severely lacks in documentation, for one; and the snapshots lack in precision and detail (why, if you're not careful you'll make snapshot with your char's eyes closed); and it's larded with small bugs. the solution would have been easy: to postpone this patch. and people with a smidgen of foresight have been begging ccp for a delay. but their marketing department no doubt pushed it thru (*from the people who gave you facebook voting*).problems you ingnore have a funny way of coming back to haunt you. qed. i can therefore only re-iterate my request that ccp take some responsibility for the character creation muck-ups that have occured; and that they gracefully allow people some time to 'get it right.'"
"supporting for obvious reasons :d"
"1.0"
"supported. +1"
"mi<U+FFFD>cro<U+FFFD>trans<U+FFFD>ac<U+FFFD>tions"
"sounds good to me"
"away with your blasphemies and harsh language.but what are you asking for? a barber shop like some games have (lotro to name one) or the ability for the image to change if you do specific emotes /me grinsi think an oh no mr bill look would be good as the armor warning alert goes off.m"
"indeed, i'd like to see this happen."
"generally, i support op idea and want to add:sculpting body could be done once (i mean after all possible trial periods)hair and facial hair should available to change every 1/2 yearemotions of character, its' pose and background - any time we want.only one disadvantage of this i see is:that could take too much programming and too much problems with server performance... (you know... famous lag and such...)"
"o.o. thanks. duch, unlikely ccp just needs to add some timers that allow carious part of character to be changed only so often. there is no server-load involved as character rendering is done on a separate mashine/cluster."
"i would not like to see any billy boy 200pds, cherokee haircut green coloured with makeup and pink dressed, no sorry."
"i want green hair. is that your problem?"
"it's always nice to tweak. everything else in eve is modular, why not characters?"
"bumpage."
"the new method of extraction is horrid. ecus are too power hungry and won't allow for the easy extraction of multiple resources. the ability to produce as many pi products on a single planet is vital to those with limited means (real money/isk) for multiple accounts, worm hole corporations, and those who were interested in a simple method of secondary income generation.i propose returning to the previous form of extraction (or a massive reduction in ecu power with less pins) to allow multi-resource extraction.the \"click-fest\" is preferable to the click-and-drag-and-haul-and-tax fest."
"oh...my...god...nothing makes you people happy does it? ****ing deal with it already..."
"quite alot makes me happy. a functional game design makes me happy. a badly designed system that fixes nothing makes me sad."
"sure. the new system bites."
"no.the old system was a wreck. i unsubbed four accounts as a result of pi alone, would've been all five but one autosubbed 2 days before.old pi: stupid piece of utter shyte.new pi: easier on the body, but still crap."
"you unsubbed because of the previous pi, i'll probably drop some accounts because of the new pi.old: click fest, but quick. 10 minutes/account (including hauling)new: click/drag fest, much slower. 20-30 minutes/account (not including hauling)"
"where's the thumbs down butten?if you can't deal with a change to your system, then that means more money for me.i <3 coolantyou complaint about the single resource ectraction per central miner thingy is valid. i managed to make two central miner thingies, six little miner thingies attached to each of them, two basic refineries to each central miner thingy, and two spaceports on one planet, and then i made a dedicated processing planet with three spaceports, three basic refineries, nine advanced refineris, and three hi tech ones.both these planets have command centers upgraded to one from the top.i am making so much pos fuel, it is ridiculous. i can fule three poswhat is the plural of pos? posi? poss? poses? pos's?"
"god, no!bad enough i almost had a case of carpel tunnel syndrome with the previous pi setup that had dozens of extractors that had to be individually reset for each planet while i have two accounts with multiple alts doing the pi for me.the new system may not be perfect, but it's easier on the wrist and easier to manage."
"not supportedbut, yes new extractors demand too much power"
"powerhungry - yes however - the new design / system is far better than the clickfest of the one before."
"challenge for your so superior pi skills.you are in deep wh space and must make pos fuels using 3 planets (and only 3) make pos fuels. you have a barren, gas and lava planet. you may not be able to get an alt into the same system as your main for many days or weeks. other corp members are responsible for other poses and you are responsible for 1 (only 1) large pos."
"gsc's take a \"little while\" to kill too"
"have we already reached the \"ooops i posted a bad idea\" stage where we get our friends to play the troll card?"
"it was a troll from the start i thought.... i mean... damm.it's a damm troll!"
"damm i been dammed?"
"if liking cute acronyms is wrong, i dont want to be right.now back to whether mining in eve should be abandoned to bots or not please."
"the new \"combat\" hotkey system seems pretty nice in paper; it is supposed to save the effort trying to approach / align / warp to / dock using the small selected items panel. however, the execution is so poor that it is now actually faster to use the selected items panel and ignore combat hotkeys as a whole.the general sluggishnes of the new combat hotkeys seems to be a four-fold problem, as described below;1. when pressing ctrl, the client \"waits\" for about 0.5 seconds before actually switching to \"lock\" mode. this can be remedied by changing the lock hotkey into something that's not ctrl/shift/alt, such as z or x.2. \"combat\" hotkeys (all new hotkeys and the targeting hotkey) are only valid for one click. once you misclick, you have to press the hotkey again.3. before the change on hotkeys, you could lock onto the target by using ctrl+click on the target's bracket. this is no longer possible. all combat hotkeys don't support this functionality.4. all combat hotkeys somehow seem to be tied with destiny's 1hz simulation rate. this causes combat hotkeys to be executed much slower than the user wants.my proposal for fixing the sluggishnes would be dealing with these problems, on a one-on-one basis.solution 1: let the user to choose the sensitivity of these commands. the delay between commands / command combinations, measured in seconds / miliseconds, should be allowed to be configured in the hotkeys option.solution 2: make all combat hotkeys valid as long as the hotkey is pressed.solution 3: treat brackets as extensions of the overview, just like prior to the patch.solution 4: provide instant feedback to all issued hotkey commands at the client level. this will give the users(including me!) the illusion that their commands are being acknowledged and having an effect. the actual serverside execution is what ccp has to worry about.all of these fixes are relatively simple compared to creating a new hotkey system from scratch. the difficult part is done, so why not polish the rest and get all the credit you deserve? the users ask one again; please commit to excellence. please take the last small but necessary steps to make the new system excellent."
"i support my proposal, as usual."
"while in a chat with a csm, some more stuff csm wants to see for supers:1. removing ecm immunity2. removing fighters3. fighterbombers cant shoot structures"
"op is a total ****ing idiot."
"seconded"
"culture? we have culture in internet spaceships? woot?"
"its a good idea and low-sec should represent a closed circuit in between high and null, but you are doing it wrong instead of asking for an adjustment of security ratings you should be asking ccp to go over the map and add the handful of gate connections required to complete the circuit.avoids all the potential nastiness and solves the issue."
"i support the genera lidea of interconnected lowsec to a point, but i also think that having a few lowsec pockets makes some nice little areas for certain play style, yes even rancer style play is a valid style for those who like it..so, basically yeah, connect the the bigger areas that are used alot, but leave a few small pockets about specifically for those who like that as their gameplay."
"an alternative idea is making smuggler jump gate's that connect all low sec systems (and are only available to players with a -5 and lower sec status)."
"while messing around in the character creator and with my grafics setting, i got the following glitch...please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"mi<U+FFFD>cro<U+FFFD>trans<U+FFFD>ac<U+FFFD>tions"
"i don't see the glitch."
"he got a mini-shirt because the layering process crapped out partway through."
"during last csm meeting grayscale proposed jump interdiction bubbles. here his basic ideas:\"greyscale floated the idea of jump interdiction bubbles  not for a grid, but for multiple light-years! they would prevent jumping through the bubble, maybe sucking the capship to a certain point. the csm isintrigued (but a bit divided); mechanics should be very costly, and it should not be possible to use it to\"castle up\".in the past i mentioned similar mechanics:giant capital interdictor mobile space distortion generator"
"entirely dependent on how its done. if it is a me-sucky-you-no-jumpee thing then they will be used to \"castle up\", with a designated system used to kill whatever tries.only way of doing it that makes sense and adds strategic value is for such a bubble being impossible to pass through but still possible to enter/leave.could then be deployed along projected path of a hostile fleet to force them to take a detour with the possibility of ambushing it while avoiding the bunkering scenario.kind of a moot point either way, since capitals are probably going to be revised long before any such addition even makes it beyond the brain-fart stage (read sc and jb threads)."
"i like the idea of jump interdiction, but how about a different way? i dont like th e'suck your cap into a camp and die in a fire' idea at all.how about a capital size jump drive interdictor, like a super hictor, that basically does what a cyno jammer does except the whole system is shut down to jumps in and out by capitals, but not to black ops covert cynos. basically the super hic would have a siege cycle, like dreads and carriers but its 10 minutes is the cycle for the system wide cyno jam. using fuel (stront or lo i guess) for its siege cycle as other caps do.this would be usable offensivly or defensively. it may even be a nice way to stop supercaps being utilised so frivolously as they are now ie 2 nyx hopped into lowsec to gank a carrier.. they may think twice if a super hic was a possibility, locking them into system, unable to dock and brought down..."
"if ccp are smart they'd start with short range cyno jammers"
"i can see this mechanic being griefed to death. omg goons are coming to kill our csma just drop one on every system the constellation. now they cant effectively jump in period. i agree with eph that a good start would be small scale cyno jamming.the other idea would be to generate a gravitational anomaly that would scramble jump drives in a certain distance from the location of origin, causing a significant delay in entering and exiting the area encompassed. or allow entries into system but not exits, as in your jump drive can target into the affected area but once inside the area you cannot jump out of it."
"after reading over what ccp has said about how they do not like the current state of affairs with supercarriers and such, and rolling the ideas around in my head for a few days, i have come to the following conclusion. supercarriers should be made closer to what real world carriers are, thin hulls that hide while their fighters and bombers fly out and kill stuff. so the short version.reduce supercarrier defenses to near non-triage carrier levels.allow supercarriers to dock, due to reduced defenses and utility (no more front line combat)allow fighter bombers to be assigned to other ships as fighters are.for gate assaults, allow fighter bombers to jump through gates with their assigned ships, up to say one jump away. (optional, there are other ways to get the supercarrier into the system so its fighters could participate).pros- except for the optional last point, nothing here requires coding that has never been done before. so would take no longer than any other balancing change.cons- optional last point would require new coding, but is optional. supercarrier pilots would not have pretty explosions to look at, but that is what dreadnaught alts are for. the long version. all ships in eve are more or less based on the battleship idea of ship design, fit the biggest guns and the most defenses on the hull as you can. this also applies to carriers (logistics are in effect extra defenses), and supercarriers (who's guns just happen to fly around a bit, but in effect are still with the hull). this idea is basically the same as the dreadnaught era in history, when the \"best\" ship was the one with the most defences and firepower.to make supercarriers less desirable, but still useful, i believe that they should follow the pattern of real carriers during world war 2 and today. in the real world, a carrier uses its aircraft to strike and defends itself by being no where near the battle. for eve, i believe the same should follow, which would restore the balance between capital ships and their use. to do this, supercarriers would need to be able to assign their fighter-bombers to other ships, their overall hp should be reduced to something near carriers (out of triage), and to make up for the lack of defenses, they should be able to dock (the reduced defenses should also reduce the price). they would retain the ability to jump, and their fighter bays would remain the same. and just to make it worth the while, allow fighter bombers to follow their assigned ship through jump gates up to one jump away, to allow a supercarrier to give fire support to gate fights while not having to jump in as well. this last point is optional, but adds to the cool factor.in all, this would make supercarriers the long range support ships they should be, and hopefully lead to less of them on the battlefield proper, while still giving them a unique place. and while not the primary reason behind this change, but hopefully this would make dreadnaughts have a place again as closer range direct firepower ships, as well as encouraging smaller ships to enter the formerly capital only battlefield to guide the fighters in."
"in other words you want supercarrier pilots to never deploy their ships more than 50 metres from the edge of the pos shield, and preferably never to even see, let alone directly engage, a hostile ship.gotcha.that sounds \"fun\"."
"that's what it looks like and i must agree with the above, it's better to have them as front line just like our normal carriers. they need to return to their logistics role imho. carriers and sc's should be logi, dreads and titans should be dps. all the problems with sc's atm stem from them being dps ships in addition to a little bit of logi."
"alternate idea;reduce supercarrier ehp to the aforementioned level, increase grid size fivefold so that long range weapons now really have to perform and fighters fulfill their intended role as force projection at a distance on any particular battlefield.only capitals should have extreme lockranges long enough to project their weapons systems to near the edge of the enlarged grid. battleships would form the backbone of close---->mid-long range slugfests, everything else would get more room to move around.just a thought.."
"i kinda like this idea, needs more work but it's promising"
"if i recall what people were saying correctly, when supercarriers were nothing but larger carrier logistic platforms, no one used them since they cost too much and did nothing that a much cheaper carrier could not do. even reducing the cost and defences and adding triage back in, a carrier would do pretty much the same for less, and there would be no unique slot for supercarriers.for the station/pos hugging comment, well, everyone plays docking games already, without major changes to how that works, it will continue. though if a supercarrier goes into a pos shield if will lose control of the fighter bombers which could then be destroyed. but this proposal is not changing that, it is trying to give supercarriers a unique but not overpowering nitch. there is already a cap logistics platform (carriers), there are already cap dps platforms (dreads and titans), this could then become a cap raiding platform, beign able to do a fair amount of dps from very long range. that is what a carrier is in real life, and it seems to work pretty well. jump a supercarrier in with some support (logi carriers, interceptors for fighter bomber control) and make someones day rotten. yes, you might not see the explosion, but you will still get the killmail of that baby titan. as for fun, your milage may vary. me, being able to sit somewhere and send my minions off to kill an enemy fleet while i watch for scan probes, i think that would be pretty fun.edit for taking to long to respond:ogogov, nice idea, but the problem with your proposal is the lag would skyrocket i would think with a grid that size, and its bad enough. keeping supercarriers off the grip would let you get away from that, and would probably draw others off as well, since they would be searching for the supercarrier."
"this proposal differs from the other proposals in some key areas.the character generator is amazingly fun to play with, yet once you've made your character the gameplay is over. while it is understandable if ccp doesn't want us to remake our faces constantly due to lolrp reasons, this does not extend to makeup, cloths and poses/lighting.even if they were to argue that re-rendering and updating character portraits would put unnecessary load on the dedicated character image server, there is no reason we shouldn't be able to at least keep playing dress up and funny pose making with our beloved characters.if implemented, this would give players room to play (what we pay ccp for anyway), while keeping the characters recognizable."
"i messed up one of my alts because i had the wrong portrait highlighted when i clicked save (i assumed the next screen would give me the choice of which portrait i wanted, instead it picked the one i had highlighted and that was that).supporting this."
"agreed."
"1.0"
"1.0"
"i especially want to change the background.is there any way that we can get the old selection of backgrounds back?the fist with the rays really grew on me. (similar to arizona flag)and tribal-wear. (i can deal with the sudden asioid-look of minmatar)"
"i agree: the physical features of a character should be set in stone (i'd even go as far as making hair styles unchangeable but poses, expressions, backgrounds and clothing should be modifiable. think of it as part of the transition to an actual character model that can walk around."
"supported"
"i say no.we had videos, coments, sisi test, advices etc etc etc. so once your choice is made, it should be forever.now i entirely agree that you should have a big warning window saying something like this:\"warning confirm - you will not be abble to retouch or make any changes after confirm your saving. are you sure you want to save now?\"it's the only tiny little thing they could do better, for all the rest you are big boys/girls and responsable for your decisions."
"not trying to troll, but horrible idea, level vi's are just fine the way they are. i like taking out my domi and pew-pewing serpentis, thank you very much"
"woah there. wait a minute. with ideas this awful, i highly doubt you have any friends. i call shenanigans!"
"so i was discussing eve with my 1.0 and 0.0 pals last night...the topice of discussion moved on to risk free hi-sec/0.0 isk generation with all parties agreeing that with the availability of limitless level 4 missions/anomlies/sactoms/belt rats the generation of isk high sec and 0.0 is nowhere near challenging enough. some guy had the opinion that hi-sec/0.0 isk generation should not neccessarily be harder, but should at least be more of a challenge that scaled with the size of the operation. the complete remove of the level 4 missions/anomlies/sactoms/belt rats was suggested and seemed to be widely accepted by a bunch of guys who live in 1.0-0.0 and know nothing about each others isk generation, whether or not this will actually happen though is anyone's guess. the general consensus was that ccp mite be willing to try anything to get people into low sec again."
"whoever came up with this idea must be a xxxxx. lolbtw, mining in high sec?? lol what kind of ppl do that if not using macro stuff?? lolxxxxx. lolbtw the only risk free job in eve is 0.0 alliance leaders. other people fighting for their space when they collect hundreds of billions moon income without need to do anything.they're the biggest carebears in game trying to win fights by making other people hard to fit better(expensive) ships."
"+1 internets"
"i have read the entire post and still find it to be a terrible idea in every respect.this will never be implemented."
"i can't say i agree with you either; and i'm one of those people doesn't much like jita. sure, i go there, and buy my stuff; but, i'd rather it was more available elsewhere. jita has become, not only a market hub; but a home for all the scammers in eve. it's bound to happen somewhere.jita is what it is; there's no changing that. fortunately, each of the other empires does have it's own market hub; it's just that they lack in faction items, and special commodities like them. not so bad really, as you can get nearly anything else you need.i understand you have an idea, and it may not be that bad in theory; but, it isn't really a workable solution ot the problem, or practical. it isn't going to make faction warfare more popular; and it's only really going to serve to annoy player's wanting to travel safely.another reason your idea, is somewhat off-target; is that the four empires actually get along, to some extent. just read any of the chronicles, related to the subject; or check into some of the back story. best i can figure, with some conviction; is that ccp doesn't want to close borders in empire. not only would it serve to prevent players from managing semi-viable trade routes; but it would prevent new players, from leaving the empires they started in without risk. sure, that might seem good, in some rspects; but, it will really only limit new players options."
"so you want the separation for the sake of having the separations, i.e. for the gatecampers benefits, not for any other reason like the game background or the \"war between empires\"?very well, so the reply to the op is very simple: no, the gatecampers don't need to be spoon feed. or if they really need to get to get gifts of even easier kills they should change profession.and i repeat: use the search function next time."
"supported because i think high-sec needs looking at as a whole, even if this isn't the best option.i would say that 3-4 systems is way too much and it should only be 1 or 2, but then those systems would become camped like crazy. which gives me an idea...what if there was more lowsec introduced around hisec, maybe not cutting off the routes but making it take much longer to go around than to go through...then make it so people can build jump bridges in hi-sec with a severely increased fuel cost when they are used (2x-5x what it is in nullsec).people complain about how much organization there is in nullsec, which is supposed to be less civilized than hisec. give the players in hisec a problem to solve and the tools to solve them, and you'll get a beautiful network of infrastructure built up in hisec as well."
"[withdrawn] you have all had valid points thank you. keep reading and commenting if you wish but i no longer think this idea is a solution.i have been reading through the csm minutes and forum threads, there is a lot of issue with super capital blobs specifically with super carriers.from what i am beginning to understand is that i don't believe that the ship itself it the issue, but the way its abused. now i maybe be wrong about this but instead of nerfing the super carries how about restricting the number of super capital class ships that can be in a fleet at one time vs. the number of ships in a support fleet. for example don't quote me on numbers, but say in order to pilot multiple supercaps in a fleet you could only have 1 super cap per squad and you would have to have at least 10 ships in the squad below super cap or maybe even below capital class ship.secondly to re-balance the dread, maybe give them a special bonus against super capitals without them being required to enter siege mode for example.[edit]also to prevent people from circumventing the system, set it up so that super cap has to be in the fleet that the cyno is set up for when the cyno is lit. that means that if one person were to try to cyno a super carrier blob they would have to do it one ship at a time per cyno, if they didn't have the required support fleet.the logistics aspect has also been complained about in for the super carriers. so make it ridged that they can only remote rep members of their fleet. these features should reduce the likely hood of roaming super carrier blobs that can easily traverse great distance.to make the mechanic work, when a player tries to join a fleet with a super cap and the limit is already reached, make the join fleet fail with a given message stating the reason. if a player should try to switch to a super cap after the fleet is formed and it is already at its max super cap post a warning that if he or she should continue they will be automaticly disbanded from the fleet. the mechanics and fleet structure do not have to follow the format stated above, could simply be a numbers game."
"thanks for trying to think about the issue in a lateral way, but i think people with experience in these things (and yes, i'm a supercarrier pilot) will tell you that we would work out a way to minimize the impact of your suggestion to the point where it would be effectively nullified."
"well if you think it would be easily nullifed what refinement would you suggest? or do believe it should just be nerfed?when you look at the resources to field a super carrier vs the resources that it takes to field a dread, i don't believe it is in anyway over powered but thats just me i guess. however the skill requirments to pilot such a ship i do believe are much too low."
"do you:a) have a deep understanding of the use of supercapsb) own a supercapc) fc capsd) do logistics for supercap constructione) live in 0.0 and operate at least a capital"
"hopefully if they dont nerf them they will at least keep them out of low sec much the same way they learned to keep caps out of high sec."
"fixed arbitrary fleet restrictions such as you suggest run counter to the open ended 'emergent' nature of eve's gameplay. what would benefit us the most is not ccp imposing composition boundaries like you suggest, but a rebalance of power so that fleet combat is no longer a 1-dimensional arms race, and that a viable counter exists to massed supercaps other than 'even more supercaps'.your proposal doesn't do that, it just forces alot of people (or alts) to tag along in what are currently sub-optimal ships just so they can sit in a pos or on a gate while the alliance fields its supercarriers (i should point out that this massively benefits large alliances who have the manpower to field a lot of spare pilots to act as cheerleaders while the supercaps do all the work)."
"only thing i see this accomplishing is making it more difficult for small entities to field their own supercaps. as an example most veteran small corps/alliances in npc 0.0 have supers they use sparingly. if a small entity has say 60 pilots in it, and 40 are online, with your system regardless of how many supers they have the can only field a maximum of 4 in fleet. so if they have 10 and needed 10 a larger entity can smoke them due to this mechanic alone"
"fair enough, bad idea. no i don't have a deep understanding of supercaps, but if you look at the numbers the super carrier does not look over powered at all was my point.i was simply trying to think of an out of the box solution to balance the problem and hopefully at least inspire a good idea from someone else. also i thought it may be an opportunity to help create the smaller goals for wings and squads like ccp had originally intended instead of just massive blobs.the problem seems that big alliance can field big blobs of super carriers. thats the complaint i feel that has been the loudest, and i was trying and obviously failing at trying to find away for smaller alliances to start leveling the playing field a little.my original idea that i didn't mention was possibly impose debuffs for fleets with excessive super caps. however i am not sure though that idea has anymore merit then the first idea."
"let it be so.why? well, with a solid colour background it would be a piece of cake to photoshop it and use our photos in other projects, e.g a corp website. you could also compost the photo into video easily. think green/blue screen. a single colour background with your favourite e-person in front. nice, eh? celebrating the creative player, are we not? thanx"
"i've seen that happen a couple times before."
"well make sense to boost their sensor strengh in my opinion. lang way to skill expensive so why should they not be good? and since the new salvage ship they even are not as good in missions as a combination of faction bs and salvage ship... so what are they good for now?"
"i would more like to see the 8. slot opend for 2 salvagers and 2 traktors and same bonuses as the noct."
"marauder sensor strength could use a buff. they currently don't do very well against guristas ecm rats as they get locked out."
"marauders were designed to be mission/ratting ships (tractor is a dead give away, no?). it is the only ship in eve that has been designed with a singular goal in mind without being corrupted by the incessant droning of \"must be able to pvp!!!\".you say yourself that the new faction ships are equal to or better than the marauders. prices of pirate bs are roughly the same as that of marauders, so why not use them for pvp (which they are meant to!) instead of asking for a de-carebearification of the marauders?if anything, then the empires should with horror upon the pirate factions and get to work on a combat focused t2 bs to counter the threat they pose (ie. new ship, not molestation of old).npc ecm is purely chance based, you could give them 1000 sensor strength and the result will be the same."
"this is no longer true."
"i thought we already getting that, no?"
"i tryed them out on sisi in high sec and not a rat anywhere near a gate and quite a few folks have said no also, but in the off chance that they are still not coming for tq then this thread is here"
"no.making boring hauling also annoying benefits no one."
"please let there be a massive sansha invasion in jita. i want to see and hear all the tears."
"nope. it seams that the one thing concord is able to do is keep the gates and stations clear of sansha :) too bad for low sec and others."
"i ran into multiple sansha gatecamps in highsec on sisi. not sure what youre going for with this proposal. next you should propose we get new forums that are built into eve gate"
"i don't think its in anyone's interest to have non functional neglected content.personally i'd be happy doing pve in pvp fits and then fighting the pirates that show up. from what i've discusses, this seems a common point of view. doing missions in very expensive battleships that pop to everything?not too fun.the fw missions provide a decent template, the problems with spawning would have to be fixed though, and the pay should be competitive for there to be a point."
"i support this. lo-sec is basically just a deathtrap for anyone not out for pvp blood. i'm not afraid of getting my pew on, but if i'm going to run missions, there is no way i'm doing it in lo. just not at all worth the hassle. it isn't so much the danger of getting killed as it is all the energy one has to spend on not getting killed. sure, you can stay aligned, try to fit cheaper, keep hitting the scanner and bolt every-time you get that gut feeling... but how is that worth the extra 5% you get out of those missions? simple - it isn't. this is a great solution, so i will add nothing. do this. do this now."
"you just hit the nail on the head, its fairly easy to run missions safely in low sec. the problem is there is still that risk, and for so little extra rewards its just not worth it."
"supported."
"before i started using the pilgrim correctly, i also complained about the range difference. when you start using it for what it is good at, you'll realize what an amazing ship it is. i sincerely hope ccp doesn't change it at all."
"the pilgrim is fine."
"there you go: pilgrim threadnaughtnot that i really care anymore, just don't use the thing for serious pvp, easy as pie."
"have you tried alphaing said pos?get 500 tempests - easy peasy."
"i don't know if anyone of csm is aware, pi has gone some major changes that have having some nasty consequences to anyone that made pi a way of living in eve. they fixed the click fest by replacing the old extractor with a ecu, but this is using so much power (plus its heads) that keeping the old production values in a planet or making p3 in one unique planet is now totally impossible. in 0.0 there are reports of 25-30% drops in production every 24 hours cycles. in high sec reports are the other way around. people seam to produce much more, i have reports of 20% more than the old extractors. people are starting to stress out about this, complete planet production lines are dead... some are rage quitting (read the industrial section of the forums) and there is no statement from ccp about these changes, if they are intentional or not, explanations, comments, nothing. its absolute silence.can someone from csm contact ccp and obtain more data about what happen and why? what was the motivation for these new power changes? intentional or error? they pretend to do something about it? please provide us some feedback, the silence/indifference is killing us...thanksregards"
"lower supply of a demand driven resource = much higher prices, and more profits, not less.if your belly ache is that every one has lower output, relax. the profits will come.if your belly ache is not being able to fuel your pos string single handedly, get over it. eve is an mmo. working together toward goals is the name of the game."
"not sure that works has intended, but indeed, power needs of a single extractor are very expensive.on the other side, yes it will certainly help for prices and make pi become more interesting."
"how can it be intended when it is clearly an artefact of the artificial dt mechanics? ccp have said their long term goal is to remove dt altogether (great!), and then this would not happen at all. in this case 'working as intended' is essentially saying \"meh cba to fix it with our stretched resources, and to avoid a discussion that might lead to a job that needs doing we'll pretend it is what we meant.\""
"not a bad idea jihn, and i remember when fuel bays were introduced that ccp said 'we can have bays for anything now', so how about a stront bay?my fix for super carriers would be, remove the 'more drones per skill level' bonus completely; then up the damage on the drones with a multiplier. this way a sc could field 10 max (5 plus 5 x drone control units - if you're crazy) and de-toothing a supercarrier by killing its fighterbombers becomes practical. today there's not only little that can hurt the sc, but little that can counter its damage, which to me is the kicker. oh and there has to be lag benefits to only launching 7 odd fb's per sc compared to 20."
"i think you should stop posting"
"a well written and though out post, outlining excellent and well structured arguments.this isn't caod or c&p, try trolling there if you feel the need to."
"i was just thinking about this myself, it makes perfect sense to have the ability to anchor your ships. especially in a pos bubble, at least super caps if nothing else. you can anchor all sorts of things already and in real life you can anchor ships so why not eve too."
"at this point is any of this really important, she's been gone for over 6 months and nothing is bringing her back. can't we please just let this bull**** die already?"
"ah yes, who would ever doubt your honesty? speaking of you constantly lying and trolling, i guess you just forgot to provide proof of all those kills you've gotten, as you so very love to pvp. also speaking of your trolling, your pattern is to simply claim that the facts are a \"smear\" or a \"screed\" or what have you, without ever actually rebutting them. because, like the rest of ank's troll brigade, facts are your enemy. just like you're pretending that your alt account's arguments, which are exactly the same as yours except they include one snipped quote, are totally different. not that congratulating your troll alt on using the same trolling but claiming that the same exact trolling is now \"fine grained\".yep, as predicted you can't do it because you were trolling. and, naturally, everybody knows that the reality of what you actually said is out to get you and actually quoting what you said would show that it's cruelly falsifying your denial.as for your trolling about the csm, only one member described it as an \"non-issue\", and did so in a rage post that they then retracted. naturally you're dishonestly describing that, too. and, naturally, you're trolling on the general point as one member's personal opinion of something does not mean that an adult throwing things at a business meeting is a \"non-issue\". and to point out how you're trolling, you started by claiming or feigning ignorance and still tried to deny what had happened from a position of admitted absolute ignorance. and then when you \"learned\" about the situation, lo and behold, it just happened to reinforce the view you held when you claimed to not know what had even happened (what luck!). and of course you are dishonestly describing it and spinning it, because like all of ank's troll brigade, facts eviscerate your nonsense. much like the delilah account's trolling, you need to claim that the actual, verifiable facts are \"overblown\", as if \"nuhn uhnn!\" was a rebuttal of facts. and again, this is hilarious. you're actually trolling on behalf of a disgraced, crazy woman who's been totally removed from the game for half a year now. at least troll about someone relevant."
"the quote i used from mynxee in which mynxee described spoongate as a non-event was taken from a post mynxee made after mynxees self described rage post. again, for the casual reader and those impaired as zero is, the url is"
"personally, i dont mind him trying to convince others were the same person. posts to that end and just about every other post hes made only serve to show people how foolish he is and the desperation with which he grasps at the merest wisp of a straw. not to mention how he has to build the molehill first in order to make a mountain out of it.my pleasure and youre entirely welcome.best regards,windjammer"
"post with your main.was her opinion, designed to try to tamp down controversy that she thought would reflect on the entire csm. but most of us realize that grown adults throwing things when they have a temper tantrum is not normal, and not other people's fault. nope. you made that up.i did not dispute anybody's version of events. i did not dispute anything \"straight from the horse's mouth\", that a lie. what actually happened was disagreement about the political consequences, which were personal opinions and predictions, which is not the same as disagreeing with the facts as reported by those who were there (the actual \"from the horse's mouth\" facts). realty has a well known anti-troll, anti-ank bias. it's a smearscreed!just to prove my point about how, yes, your argument is trolling, let's look at your earlier bit: . qed.yep... how can we say, as a relative certainty, that ank violated the nda? that's horrible! of course, you can say that a number of the csm delegates can be accurately accused of violating the nda. we just can't say that about ank. because, well...hey, look over there!"
"i was there in the room. i was sitting next to eva when the spoon was launched. and more importantly, i know what triggered it and who it was actually aimed at. the actual facts reflect better on eva that most people might expect.in the larger context of the meeting, spoongate was (as mynxee pithily put it), a non-event.wrt the nda-violation, i can have no opinion on that, since i do not know the facts. however, i spent a fair amount of time with eva in iceland during that trip, and found her to be quite different from her internet persona. i quite liked her."
"no problem. it's all based in fact. she was trying to ruin pvp in high sec. she was voted in by the pve community. and by people like you. people who want to see eve as a friendly place. inappropriate text removed as per the forum rules. steviesg."
"interesting. can you elaborate? the story at the time, iirc, was that some rudeness/side conversation was going on and ank was annoyed so she threw something to get attention. is that not accurate? in any case, even if in the context of the meeting itself it was a non-event to some people, obviously not to others, but the semantic value (if you will) of cutlery isn't an objective matter. who did what, why, who it was aimed at, etc... is all factual and well and good, but whether or not something was important enough to be considered or not, isn't. people throwing things out of frustration (or, really, almost any reason) is going to be seen as significant by quite a few, whether or not it was thrown with malice or out of pique. especially if it's part of a pattern, like ank's reaction at the first several meetings of the year w hen people disagreed with her or weren't voting her way.in a nutshell though, the facts are all well and good, but the interpretation is another matter entirely. that's too bad, and it raises the question of why, exactlyshe created her internet persona. if she really believed that people who play bad-guys in an internet spaceship game are real life sociopaths, then that is pretty much a delusional disorder. if she didn't believe in real life that people who played the game differently than her were sociopaths, why the **** were there quite so many times and quite so many quotes which were variations on that theme? if her internet persona was just a ploy to win votes, or appeal to the pve crowd... that's kind of disturbing."
"the character creator doesn't lack diversity. people just makes the same archetypal characters over and over again."
"having concord in low sec would defeat the purpose of having low sec. low sec is all about being rewarded for taking risks. having npc renta-cops would kill that. on the other hand, if one wanted to do something risky like mine in low sec, there nothing to prevent hiring a merc or bringing a corp mate along for protection. i think that's what the game encourages and the point of being in a corp."
"where be the patch notes ?"
"bump."
"i support the yarn and have a suggestion. why not have both drives, the old and the new. each would have their advantages ans disadvantages, while allowing a bit of personalization. this would also help with the miner problem, force some(very few) ships into only being able to fit the old warm up engine?you could also make the warp drives an module with its own slot(like rigs). so buy the drive you want and fit it.on a site note, the current warp effects were implmented during trinity. the old warp effect was indeed stronger, but ccp hates strong effects they like subtle ones."
"although i love the ideas, i still believe that there must be an additional motivation. big alliances are holding to their own spaces not because of pvp content, but because of economical reasons. changing occupancy of a system should bring \"some\" form of economical reward.a direct reward would be prone to abuse. so it should be in form of additional accessible resources. one thing that comes to my mind is: let the bunkers spawn local militia force agents for the occupying faction. these agents should give missions in their occupied systems and around. so that once a system becomes occupied, the occupying side gets access to fw missions with much less travelling involved. maybe a lp bonus for completing these agents' missions could be added as well.about op suggestions:1) i agree...but there should be some type of interaction with the \"button\". maybe a hacking module to hack it to run the timer.2) just a message like \"amarrian slavers are attacking our major stronghold in dal system.\" should be enough. knowing amount of pilots and shiptypes beforehand is really too much intel. that intel has to be gathered by pilots.3) although i generally agree with this one, post dt when there are fewer players, has better chance of nice small gang action. as the evening nears the size of gangs grows and pvp turns to blob warfare. a solution would be limiting number of ships that can enter a plex at one time. for example installations would allow max 3 players from each side at one time. outposts 6, compunds 10 and strongholds unlimited. this would somewhat limit the blobs inside plexes...thought gate itself would be completely blobbable.4) i agree, this way i can use that utility slot for some other utility than probe launcher. another solution would be increasing range of on-board scanner for fw plexes only. this way overview won't be crowded with un attended plexes and we can know which amarr minor facility we have to warp to get combat, when there are 3 of them in system :p"
"dumb idea time. system control emphasized:semi-passive income = k*[max(0,# of systems on your side flipped in last \"n\" months - # of systems on other side has flipped over last \"n\" months)]*[[your vp over last \"n\" months]/[your faction's vp over the last \"n\" months]]tune k, and \"n\" to suit your needs.vp emphasized: offensive and defensive plexing matters.income = k* [max(0,vp your side - vp their side)]* [your vp/your side vp] (updated once per day)tune k to suit your needs.or maybe justpassive income = k*(your vp/total vp)faction lp = k*(your vp/total vp)"
"thanks for the ideas guys. dont forget that if support the discussion here to check the box. i do agree that there needs to be better rewards for plexing. the op doesn't address that issue. the intent of the op changes were really just to make fw plexing more pvp centered and more fun  in itself. but i am happy to have these ideas in the thread because giving better rewards is likely also necessary.x gallentiusi like the idea there. the formulas you use seem to take into account the 2 main concerns with awarding occupancy. the first concern is that everyone will just keep piling into the winning side. the second concern is people will have alts in fw that do nothing but collect the rewards. your formula seems to take into account both of these concerns. so i tend to like the formulas. but let me ask this: what would be the matter with simply dividing a set of lp for the completion of a plex to everyone who is on grid? if there are more people on grid fewer lp for each pilot. perhaps it should a bit of both. a formula similar to what you have proposed as well as some small immediate payment to the pilots involved. perhaps the immediate payout should be based on how long you were in the plex. that way if someone was mainly just sitting outside the gate because they wanted to keep their presence out of the intel they can, but they wont get as much reward. to help the side that is out numbered maybe there could be some sort of balancing as systems get occupied. lets say caldari have occupied x% of the systems on the gallente and caldari front. (x = some number greater than 50 obviously) then all of a sudden the gallente can enter minor plexes in cruisers and medium plexes in bcs etc. caldari would still be limited to the original plex size. hence it becomes harder and harder to completely win. if it comes down to 1 or 2 systems left they may even let battleships in the minor plexxes. i can envision final stands where 20 battleships and 30 bcs are swarmed by 500 frigates and destroyers. who knows how it would work out. for the sake of space i wont give the story line explanations other than to say there are some."
"1) as far as interaction with the button i dont know anything about hacking. would that require something else we would need to fit on the ship? i really think ccp needs to make it so that the challenge to plexing is the other side trying to blow you up before the timer runs. anything else is a sign of failure. any pve requirements would just cover up the fact that the occupancy system comes up short.2) i think the intel would make the game better. the whole idea is both sides would have to react fast and assign pilots to the multitude of battles that would be constantly fought throughout the 8 regions of fw (i think each faction has 2 regions in fw so 4 factions x2 =8 regions) before those timers run out. it shouldnt be something where you see they are attacking then have to fly over there find out what they are in and then fly back and get the right ships etc. and in the meantime they shipped up etc. that is too much like the current system. the npcs can see what ships they are in so they should report it and both sides should be reacting to constantly changing set of conditions in a somewhat frantic way to send pilots to try to hold/take these plexes. 3) because there is such a large area of space to cover, and already ship size restrictions on plexes, blobbing wouldnt be a good way to go about the occupancy war. if you are taking plexes with 3 ships when you only need 1 then you are only 1/3 as efficient as you should be. the other side will be capping 3xs as many plexes per pilot as you are. and yes blobs could camp the gate to the plex but again that is inefficient. instead of those players sitting out (and therefore perhaps not getting the award) they could be doing plexes in other systems. for these reasons i think they should allow as many ships as you want in the plex. newer pvpers may indeed need numbers to take on more experienced pvpers. as they gain experience in pvp they will be more valuable to the militia."
"no.eve's is the most persistent of online worlds, and that is part of its attraction. our destinies are a result of in-game actions - ours or others'. micro-transactions will further diminish this illusion, far more than plex and metagaming already do, and thusly detract from the uniqueness of eve (which you'll have to agree would be detrimental to eve and thus to ccp's financials in the mid to long term, since much of eve's success stems from it being so different from what other mmos have to offer). also, vanity items are just as much part of the eve economy as anything else. if somebody absolutely must have a silver magnate, let them buy plex for isk and then spend it. the same might be true for silver sunglasses, a different hair style or just a new mug shot, but since such will not be realistically priced at the level of a 50m space frigate, there shouldn't really be any point for it since an average lvl 1 mission should easily pay for the most luxurious of makeovers."
"i vote no let stuff cost isk instead"
"not seeing this in petition responses times or content. acknowledge and investigate problems, do not dismiss petitions out of hand with working as intended when there is obviously a problem.not seeing this with new pi, fix the ecu raw mats routing bug, and gross inconsistency between different parts of ui.watch the pos fuel market go crazy in next couple of days as supply shortages kick in."
"this is my top 1 issue. major parts of the game need to be fixed, redesigned or removed."
"yes: more polished releases, more refined features, more community driven content.no: half-baked ideas, last minute feature changes, promising something that is not delivered.all in all, i think eve is the best thing to happen to the mmo genre. it needs to continue to push the sci-fi genre forward in a complete and \"excellent\", as it were, manner."
"its not just the stuff they have released in expansions, some things have been just plain stupid since day 1. mining. what game developer thinks that sitting in front of an asteroid clicking a couple buttons every 3 minutes is fun?"
"this thread isn't here to suggest a fix to make dreads useful. that would likely be a seperate change *to dreads*.this thread is here to discuss changes to sc vs subcaps so they cant roflstomp subcap fleets and any tacklers involved. and ya, im a ****. why would that bother me? you obviously havent even read the op of the thread with your last 2 posts. @bobbeh your corp mate suggested my original fb idea verbatim, congrats. it's my understanding they werent put into the game in that way because ccp would have had to alter drone mechanics heavily and they dont really know how drones work anymore."
"i thought it sounded familiar:pyea i figured as much but as i said i think the change is in the subcapscyclical vs linear"
"keep everything the same.but remove ew immunity. except for regular warp disruptors. maybe reduce sensor strengths to concentrate the nerf.problem solved.this means they are still useful in smaller numbers and multiplied in large numbers, except they are counter-able by something other than an equal number of supercaps, because people will be able to jam and dampen the hell out of them."
"the only ewar that would be even remotely useful to use against them would be ecm. so really youre wanting ecm immunity removed. because one races overpowered ewar apparently \"balances\" things.hint: it doesn't.jamming 30-40 supercaps would take at least 100 dedicated ecm boats if not more using all the proper racial jammers and we all know what drones tend to do against those who are jamming their host. this would just result in a lot of dead ecm boats followed by the rest of the subcaps. an unjammed titan can alpha an ecm boat every 15-16 seconsd."
"how about increasing the capacitor need or cooldown of supercarrier jumps? making them hard to move around and nearly impossible to retreat from battle? super carriers should be all-or nothing ships, i.e. if two fleets with supercarriers show up only one of them will leave with a single supercarrier alive. hasn't ccp been saying they want them to die more? give sc's the ability to prevent other sc's from warping, jumping, or logging out of the battle.ccp already wants big uberfleets to be less mobile, they should start with the biggest ships and work their way down instead of looking at jump bridges first.as for actual stats, i agree that fighter-bombers should be easier to lock up.here's an idea, just a thought: what if supercarriers couldn't be affected by any implants or boosters? after all it's a freaking huge ship, why should a little chipset and some chemicals in your head increase its hitpoints by massive amounts? this alone would reduce the overpowered tank of the nyx & friends to more reasonable levels."
"--signedalthough i'm satisfied with my bloodline, it would be nice to give people the option to change their bloodline, since the new character creation is so different from the old one."
"voting to let us change it."
"i personally don't want to change my bloodline but i can see people wanting too. there shouldn't be such a big issue with it, it doesn't change gameplay at all, and ccp already scrapped our old identities.entire roleplay bios scrapped. i would go as far as to say that ccp doesn't like the rp community(i don't rp). a while back they nerfed the bio character limit, then they nerfed the note character limit, which cut some stories in half. now they take something that, to an rper, is one of the most important things in the game. their character. or i guess the representation of their character.hell if i had my way, i would allow you to have a 2nd(mixed) bloodline. why cant a brutor have a kid with a caldari? i would think it would be quite common among the new hipster pod pilots."
"i'm in the same boat as you. i started my character in 2007 and the only reason for selecting the bloodline i chose then was for the starting advantage because picking a bloodline changed the stats and the skills you were given to start with.also, i didn't check with other caldari bloodlines, but why did ccp remove the long hair from civire they had when testing on sisi? :/i wouldn't mind a gender change either, for silly reasons. ccp seems a little sexist right now because female characters seem to have better features; or maybe i'm the only one who notices?edit: forgot to state also that it would appear some bloodlines have this odd ability to make you have a fixed appearance no matter what options you take to \"individualize\" yourself."
"exactly! how do you get to:<---this from this ?! (same as in sig)i was under the impression that minmatar were modeled after all tribal societies on terra.i thought it was cool how european-features could be part of them. not surprising actually, as the hungarians can attest to. how did i interpret this?minmatar means heavy-metal, tribal-clothing/tattoos, norse ship-names, etc...all in all we are talking about pockets of terran colonies that were trapped on unfriendly planets, plunged into darkness after the collapse of the eve-gate, but still at minimum an entire planet (matar). not to mention the enslavement, and subsequent slave-breeding programs by the amarr.minmatar doesn't really mean 'one race', but rather several different races trapped together, working together, surviving together as many tribes united under a republic.so i'd bet that there would be several vherokior running around with slightly european-features.edit to add: i'd rather support more character features than actual bloodline-change.i'm actually tied to my character's back story.supported because there needs to be some kind of option.edit ii: changed portrait, looks batter, but i still support others who are not satisfied."
"if this had been done with the release, i could see it. post release it's a bigger issue. i don't agree with radically changing every aspect at a whim but i do think that it should have been made possible with the update.as has been stated, many chose their characters for the looks but long before that - you had \"racial bonuses\" that directly effected the abilities of characters along the lines of what they wanted to do in the game.allowing them to diversify their appearances 1 time, that had no other effects, would work.it would actually \"fix\" some rp issues - \"i like that groups mind-set. i needed this groups abilities when i started\". those types can fix the problem."
"loving the whiny racism in this thread. asians? in my spaceships? this is an outrage!"
"of course i support this. whatever the reasons people want to change their race or bloodline, it's only fair that with a new character creator, people get another chance to choose what they think looks best to them. my car dealer doesn't paint my black car red because there's new car paints (and no, the fact that i can pick a whole palette from scarlet red to burgundy red doesn't change that), it's not that it's better or worse, it's just a matter of personal preference. it should be respected and a lot of bloodlines are totally different now."
"no."
"+1 especially since race/bloodline has no impact on gameplay anymore."
"no.if it is offered then i really hope its chargeable, just like changing a portrait was."
"as some one who has had the same char since i made him in 2005 i'd welcome a change.strategic choices i made when it mattered should be free to change when the developer renders them pointless. we see this all the time when a ship is nerfed/fixed/redesigned/watever. players will switch to whatever ship suits them after the change.also where is my blue plastic shirt and hair??"
"yes, make an remape just like the atributes, would't be to hard i gues!"
"no.you made your choice now stick with it."
"i approve this!i started back in 2009 and then we had these old portraits which looked rather 'outdated' or clumpsy. back in the old days you didn't choose a certain race/bloodline/ancestory for it's looks, but you chose what was best for your first ever career in eve. now they released the new character revamp, making it an important part of the game with it's realistic looks. it looks awesome and for that reason people care how they look now. it is not fair for these people to have chosen a race in the old days and let them stick to that race/bloodline/ancestory forever, keeping the reasons above in mind, after these amazing changes to your looks.for me this means i'm a negro. i do not want to be one. i chose the brutor bloodline for its stats not the looks, because the portrait in the old days meant nothing. heck, in the old days you could only dream of your character getting out your ship someday and meet up with other people. today however, the portrait has something that's really cool and is worth showing off. this makes me feel frustrated, because i can't be the race/bloodline i want to be. we should be free changing the either the race or bloodline or ancestory we are in now. nowadays the choice is more aesthetic dependant rather than stats dependant, like in the old days. having made a choice in the past and punishing customers for an unforseen change years later in the game is not fair.so i approve jenny cameron in this going motion."
"from the day one in eve civires are stated as strict militaristic people who prefer short hair. having some damned civire hippies running around smoking ganja would just kill the immersion for me so thank you ccp for not giving civire the long hair option... it is the same with other caldari. the society is strict and militaristic so it is good for the immersion to limit use of long hair.\"caldari society is steeped in military tradition. as a people, its members had to fight a long and bloody war to gain their independence, and even had to surrender their home planet to their hated enemies, the gallenteans.\"\"as long as you keep in line, do your job, uphold the laws and so forth, life can be fairly pleasant and productive. but for those who are not cut out for this strict, disciplined regime life quickly becomes intolerable. they lose their respect, family, status, everything, and the only options left to them are suicide or exile.\"yeah, no hippies allowed :)"
"voting in support of a bloodline change.like alot of people back when i started the bloodline you chose had a real in game impact. ever since they removed that and i've learned more about the lore of the game i've been wishing that i could go and change my bloodline to get the appearance that i wanted. of course back then it wasn't as big of an issue for me since i had managed to create an avatar that i at least somewhat liked.with the new character creation though i havn't been able to do that. even after spending hours playing with options nothing quite seems right and i don't think that we should be forced to \"settle\" for an avatar that we don't like based solely on decisions made years ago using an avatar creation method that has since been replaced."
"supported i dont really want to look like a japanese office worker just because i am khanid. khanid used to look good."
"my smug sense of superiority is impossible to recreate without one of those amarr hoods. now my khanid just looks like some asian guy.actually it's not even the clothing style. i'm all for the popularity of gap clothing 20000 years in the future. but i don't like the fact that my khanid has incurable grandpa face."
"signed !i'm not happy with the actual look of female intaki bloodline.."
"choice was based on benefits and restrictions. now all benefits are gone or turned into restrictions. that's called \"being railroaded\" in gamers speak and is not appreciated!"
"supportedcharacter creator is great but some new change have totaly changed the bloodline (vherokior & intaki)"
"no."
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images. sorry but to me there is a big difference.i would rather just keep my old portrait."
"and those who made characters after the removal of racial attribute traits have to suffer along?u mad ?edit: oops i misunderstood you, silly me!"
"just mildly annoyed, thank you for asking. suffer how? everyone should have an option to change bloodline, if they want to."
"signed!"
"/signed"
"no."
"/signed"
"signed"
"impossible to make something with intaki female.+1"
"yes, please. not at all happy with my probing alt's new look. (she's that one asian-looking minmatar bloodline that was not at all asian-looking before.)"
"i picked caldari monk to look like an opportunistic business man.now my only choices result in a square jawed meatstick that vaguely resembles something asian"
"[v]"
"yes."
"you have the gay vote."
"+1please review gallente race like ccp did with minmatar"
"i fear that incursions will only make the weaknesses in the gallente weapons/ships even more profound. and there pilots will eventually be left behind or only brought along out of pity for such an arrogantly weak race."
"it's not nearly that bad, the taranis and ishkur are both considered by some to be the best in there class, and by others the second best. the dominix, for what its worth, is probably the only really solo capable bs (minus the tempest, but thats really a big battlecruiser).after that though i will say that i support rebalancing gallente ships as part of the removal of the tier system."
"/support"
"/supported"
"hey look, a bunch of people who have trained for [race x] are in favor of boosting [race x] my word this is surprising i would not have expected this in a million years what what what"
"signed, gallente sucks currently, dps equal or less than matar, gun range sucks, type of damage, speed, agility......... and with new ai on rats drones will sucks as well as they'll be killed like sleepers do."
"i can fly each races' subcaps (t1 and t2). gallente subcaps suck pretty bad. the smaller the gallente ship, the more the problem exists. caldari hybrid platforms aren't a lot better, but their shield tanks (vs armor tanks) allow them to accelerate and fly a bit faster. missiles work, lasers work, projectiles work. each have a useful niche where they excel. hybrids don't. most painfully on gallente ships.the only hybrid ship i still fly is a vulture and only because i'm not there to do damage."
"supported."
"not a bad idea, to be honest. helps with the whole afk cloaking thing and is a pretty fair nerf to non-covert cloaking."
"those that think this idea is for afk cloaking - reread the opit does nothing to stop afk cloaking. it just stops recharge so caps can't cyno out easily after waiting cloaked."
"fly away little troll"
"o hey look, a great idea!"
"supported."
"a good idea tbh. my only concern would be about covert ops ships running out of cap as they move around. a few warps and they are out of cap, forcing them to decloak and recharge.not that its a bad thing."
":facepalm:i guess i need to update my op and use the largest font available to say this has...nothing to do with covert ops cloaks!"
"not a bad idea at all."
"i don't think it would take significant time to make breasts move even just a little. they want this to be as real as possible...if walking in stations is anything like the video's for the carbon tech they were showing off a while ago then walking will be rather realistic too. i am sure we will get more clothes, hairstyles, tattoo's, etc...thats what the incarna team is for. they have 6 months to add more content and get it all set the way they want. this isn't asking much."
"makes sense to me. incarna can support the same combat system as eve spaceships:(combat) group of terror assault breast strikes serpentis admiral for 687 damage (wrecking).(notify) loading the @%%#^ into the $%#@; this will take approximately 10 seconds (lol noob)."
"bump.even my portrait is more enhanced than my missiles now... =(more support please!"
"bumping this for the greater good"
"as someone who personally flies the legion, i support this change. 4 low slots on a covert ops setup is a joke."
"yep, \"super-tanked baitship\" is not a real role. but i guess ccp can easily access and check the stats for t3 ships and subsystems sold in comparison, can't they? maybe just need a nudge to actually do it... in order to realize if and where a rebalancing is in order.additionally, considering due to background stuff et al. hams are supposed to be one of the two amarr-ish missile systems (together with rockets). a minor tweak to make sure a legion with hams does actually better than a tengu with hams might be in order as well."
"nowhere did i say that it could do all those things at once. but then again, neither can a harbinger. the point is that you have tremendous versatility in an armor cane, and the tank and dps numbers correspond accordingly with a harbinger, with the only difference being the weapon systems. what you neglect to mention is that the harbinger lacks the tracking to actually apply that dps, except at the very tip of its optimal, and you make it sound like the non selectable dps is the only one you can apply at 20km. the harbinger has no defense against neuting, which only mildly inconveniences a hurricane that's already in its optimal. i also noticed you didn't mention anything about natural resists, barely mentioned the selectable damage types, and the raw speed difference between the two.and if we're going to inject a little reality into this, how about we be real about why we don't see armor hurricanes: it's because the general trend is towards mobility and logistics, which means shield tanking and scimitars. a scimi isn't going to do **** for an armor cane. if you're going to make disingenuous points, do it in some other thread."
"in the csm minutes ccp said that they don't want to balance gallente/hybrids because no one uses them, and so it isn't an issue.they also want to keep the racial stereotypes such as \"minmatar being the fastest\"."
"you seem to underestimate medium pulse tracking quite a bit, they hit just fine especially that the things getting closer than 10km are gonne be webbed.and no, you dont do anything with faction shortrange at 20km with your armor cane.harbingers use cap injectors. those work wonders against neuts.i also didnt mention instant ammo switching between longrange and shortrange, or the fact that you dont know if you are gonna shoot a shield or armor tanker. its kinda funny loading fusion just to find out you are shooting at shields, one of the main reasons you'll default to phased plasma 90% of the time when not using barrage.given shields are so popular on battlecruisers lately, i dont even understand why you'd bring up resists unless you want to back up my argument.i think the general idea is to use the guardian (aka best logi in game) when running armor gangs. doesnt change the fact that the cane is a subpar choice in armor gangs."
"suported"
"plug in a low grade slave set alpha-through-epsilon, and additional implants: eifyr and co. 'rogue' cy-2, 'gunslinger' ax-2, 'gunslinger' mx-2, inherent implants 'lancer' g2-delta, and armored warfare mind link; then fleet up, and fc/wc/sc with this fit, and tell me it doesn't meet more than half those expectations. kick in a synth drop booster for fun; with no penalties.[hurricane, armored warfare neut hurricane]khanid navy energized adaptive nano membranearmor thermic hardener iiarmor explosive hardener iiarmor kinetic hardener ii800mm reinforced rolled tungsten plates igyrostabilizer iifaint warp disruptor ifleeting propulsion inhibitor i10mn afterburner iitracking computer ii, tracking speed425mm autocannon ii, republic fleet emp m425mm autocannon ii, republic fleet emp m425mm autocannon ii, republic fleet emp m425mm autocannon ii, republic fleet emp m425mm autocannon ii, republic fleet emp m425mm autocannon ii, republic fleet emp mmedium energy neutralizer iiarmored warfare link - passive defensemedium projectile burst aerator imedium projectile collision accelerator iwarrior ii x4valkyrie ii x1"
"you were talking about comparing armor bcs. i think resists are a huge factor, especially base resists. who the hell is talking about using faction shortrange at 20km. no **** you don't use it, you use barrage, but the point is that you can switch, the same way you switch between scorch and multifreq. is it as fast a switch as a harb? of course not, but that doesn't mean that you can't use it.all your saying with the tracking and web comment is that the harb won't suffer as much in web range. guess what, the harb does less dps, so at that range it's still going to get ****ed over.and lastly, the scimi comment was on the rise of shield bcs, and why you don't see armor canes over shield canes. i see plenty of armor canes in armor fleets, and frankly, even if the dps is marginally less because of falloff, the cane can control range much better than the harbinger.all of this just highlights the point that the cane is hardly helpless, armor tanked or no, and saying that a gallente speed buff is going to spell the death of minmatar ships is just plain wrong. it's a wrong conclusion, based on wrong information."
"i tend to agree with the focus on main platforms; but, also think there is need for a hybrid rebalance. range boost to optimal would be good for a start.1.) no comment really.. i'm not really familiar with how functional rsd's are; though, i suspect you are mostly correct about this one.2.) this can be worked around, to some extent; such as not fitting trimarks, and moving some dps to rigs, instead of using a weapon upgrade or two. this will allow for a resistance boost with energized membranes or dcii, or something. alternatively, you can fit plate; with agility penalties. i tend to agree, but think the rebalance is elsewhere.3.) like here. boost the speed on gallente ships, to equal or exceed that of minmatar ships. we all know the main issue with gallente ships and hybrids; is sustainable and achievable dps. sure, it works great in controlled and predictable pve environments. it does not work well in pvp, because you just can't get in range to use them. switch to rails, and suffer a significant loss in dps; or become vulnerable, to gain speed and agility. in principal, that doesn't sound so bad, and follows fitting logi; the reality, is that it incapacitates the ship further, and makes it ineffective and vulnerable. rig's create penalize, and stacking penalizes. trying to improve something that is poor to begin with; reduces any chance of success you might have. 50% of nothing; is still nothing. upgrading speed would be a good thing; and it would go a long way to improving gallente ships effectiveness.4.) ..or decrease the pg requirements for hybrids; alternatively, do both to a lesser extent. gallente ships do suffer on powergrid, as i recall; can't imagine trying to fit that hurricane fit up there, on a brutix. speaking of which, i might add regarding that; you need to overheat everything, for effect. yep.. checked, and it's not even close. it's not a myrmi to properly compare, but it doesn't even come close to fitting; as it maxes pg shortly after mounting the hybrids, and doesn't have the fitting room. it would get very nice armor tank with trimarks, though; so you could modify the fit for effect, though you'd lose speed. and so, we're back to that. nobody, is going to close with a brutix and take it's dps; if they are aware they can sit off 10km, and take 0 dps, or lower dps. move a little further out, as he swaps ammo, (you have 10 seconds); and the next lower dps ammo won't touch you either. who was it that mentioned almost instantly swapping out ammo, anyway?5.) i can't really say much about the repper's; save, i noticed they are hard to fit and provide capacitor for. generally not very practical. massive pg req. and lower rep per equal duration; though, at slightly less cost to capacitor. not so much cpu cost. it's hard to be really specific, about the balance there; because the fitting requirements are different per ship, and faction./supported.edit: the fact is, everything is really well balanced; which makes it hard to see problems, on the surface. once you enter gameplay, however; things become more apparent.warfare is about exploiting an enemies weaknesses; while attempting to limit your own weaknesses.when a nation fields and army, and equips them to face the battle ahead; they generally make an effort to gather intelligence, to better understand enemy tactics and capabilities. all nations will make an effort to improve their weapons of war, and increase their tactical advantage; whether actively engaged, preparing for war, or in peacetime. research, testing, and development; is done on an ongoing basis. easily defeated technologies and tactics, that were once powerful; are discarded, and replaced with technology and tactics that are proven more effective.a ship, module, or weapon can be redesigned; and made more effective against enemy tactics. if something proves ineffective; it's bound to be changed, or discarded before the next engagement."
"i think you need to look at an actual armor cane, it certainly cant project damage to 20-25km even with barrage.425's with barrage have 3 + 18km for its range220's with barrage have 2.7 + 17km for its rangeso with falloff formula you will not be putting out meaningful damage, swapping to that would mean you lost 10s of damage in that fight as well due to no armor cane actually loading barrage on a regular basis from the start of the fight.edit. i would like to improve gallente but i would say making them the fastest ships kills minmatar kiting. i would prefer to make it so once they have you in scram you dont leave.also thats funny that you just claimed a harbinger is out dps'd by a armor cane. with everyone flying shield these days and the harbinger without tracking enhancers hitting reliably out to 20km with scorch im surprised so many people whinge about the laser damage type. i just cross trained my alt to fly harbingers for that reason.edit 2. that hurricane fit is horrible, and still doesnt do damage reliably out to 20km, unless we talk drone damage only"
"out of curiousity i had a goarmor brutix of cacklow slots800mm rolled tungstenarmor explosive hardener iiarmor kinetic hardener iiarmor thermic hardener iimagnetic stabilizer iimid slotsy-t8 overcharged hydrocarbon i microwarpdrivewarp scrambler iistasis webifier iitracking computer iihigh slotsheavy ion blaster ii, cal navy antiheavy ion blaster iiheavy ion blaster iiheavy ion blaster iiheavy ion blaster iiheavy ion blaster iiheavy ion blaster iirig slotsmedium hybrid burst aerator imedium anti-em pump imedium trimark armor pump idroneshammerhead iifor added eft-warrioring (as both fits are crap) i added a mind-linked damnation alt and slaves alpha through to epsilon, with overheat 77k ehp and 755dps, with 158dps at 20km"
"i'll concede that you can't project dps to 25km, and only barely out to 20km. however, the base speed difference more than makes up for that with the cane being able to control range much better than a harbinger. also, the whole discussion was about comparing the performance of armor bcs, so the damage types come into play, but also just because not everything shield tanked is going to have a massive em hole, nor is everything going to be shield tanked. it's easy to come up with scenarios where a particular ship will get pwnt hard, but on the whole, pvp is highly unpredictable and you can come up with a ton of scenarios where paper beats rock, but selectable damage types tends to give an advantage on the whole compared with non-selectable damage types.also, here's the hurricane fit i did up in eft:[hurricane, new setup 1]energized adaptive nano membrane iienergized adaptive nano membrane iidamage control ii1600mm reinforced rolled tungsten plates igyrostabilizer iigyrostabilizer iiy-t8 overcharged hydrocarbon i microwarpdrivefaint epsilon warp scrambler ifleeting propulsion inhibitor ibalmer series tracking disruptor i220mm vulcan autocannon ii, hail m220mm vulcan autocannon ii, hail m220mm vulcan autocannon ii, hail m220mm vulcan autocannon ii, hail m220mm vulcan autocannon ii, hail m220mm vulcan autocannon ii, hail mheavy assault missile launcher ii, caldari navy fulmination assault missileheavy assault missile launcher ii, caldari navy fulmination assault missilemedium trimark armor pump imedium trimark armor pump imedium trimark armor pump ihammerhead ii x3the td allows you to control range even better on the harbinger due to its pathetic falloff, or take a big chunk out of his dps if you decide to close range. either way, this is hardly a weak ship, even if we do boost gallente speed.and lastly, one of my underlying points is that kiting is way too easy in this game. minmatar kiting should be killed. if you want to kite, you should have to severely gimp your fit in order to get the amount of speed you need to do so. you should not be able to kite things without any effort whatsoever. the other races counter with range, the gallente have no counter unless you count rails with **** tracking and **** dps."
"funny. and still, it would be desirable to be assured that no ratings, censorships and financial affairs, will force ccp to refuse a \"mature\" rating.bring more people to eve - certainly! remarkably!to destroy the virtual world in which always lived, many adult people who love scifi and their representation about him, for the sake of attraction of interest to game at children - is an insidiousness and villainy."
"was a dumb idea to be able to link systems multiple jumps away and be able to jump those distances in a sub-capital ship. i remember laughing about how dumb they were when i traveled some 30+ jumps with virtually zero risk. you're ****ing ******ed or dying on purpose if you die navigating one of your jb networks.get rid of jbs."
"can we please drop the 'zero risk!' nonsense? it's trivially easy to have a cloaked dictor and bomber gang sitting off a jb and caps/freighters that use jb's are easy targets for any hotdrop gank. and often subcap ganks, too. jb's are not risk free, and not \"virtually\" risk free either. a competent opponent can and will murder your face on a jb network."
"remember that hot dropping will be nerfed too. at very least, there would be some delay between cyno activation and ships appearing. if that's the cast, the pos guns would lock on any dictor / stealth bomber within 10-20 seconds and insta pop italso, the freighter thing is just half of the major problem. other half is that every alliance member in their little raven, zealot, dramiel, whatever small ship - they all travel instantly and safely. nobody is gonna use that dictor drop strategy for main jb traffic"
"there may be. mechanics aren't finalized or, as far as i understand it, even in the 'working on it' stage yet. just off the top of my head i can think of several easy counters. and if i can, others will, and the community will come up with more. -have a disposable tackler to land initial tackle and a hard tanked damnation aligned just off grid that can warp in and pick up the tackle, and then light a cyno. -on pos's without lots of guns, simply send in a hard tanked proteus and rep it when a gank squad jumps in. -on pos's with proper guns, use a few disposable rifters to land tackle in series as each one is about to pop and have a cyno just off grid (or just 200 km off the jb itself, or whatever) and pop the cyno when the first rifter lands tackle. -alternatively alter any of the ideas above by scouting your opponent's jb network and alerting your buddies to exactly when a ship is about to jump through. when a ship warps to/lands on/is about to activate a jb, pop your cyno in the destination system and get your ships in-system or hiding in the next system over ready to engage. -use bomber gangs to quickly land tackle and cycle off before the pos pops them (with a few probe-point bombers to probe down anybody who logs off with aggro) and have a subcap gank fleet waiting to alpha the hell out of anything smaller than a supecarrier. the above took me about 180 seconds to come up with. what do you think that entire gathered eve community could do with months of time? again no, they do not. it's trivially easy to eliminate almost any ship, or gang of ships (drams somewhat excluded)by sitting a cloaked dictor off a jb and having a wave or two of bombers ready to go at a moment's notice. death is a virtual certainty if your enemy has the jb scouted and knows when you're about to jump through and you don't have intel about the other side. except, of course, all the times when they do. i've seen it more than once. it's remarkably cheap and effective and can yield a massive tally of killmails if performed correctly."
"remove drone regions. you eliminate a large chunk of botters and restore some amount of balance to the mineral market."
"some people with very short memories out there. anyone would think that eve has always had sovereignty and poses and jump bridges.i'm really not comprehending why it would be bad to wage war on your neighbours (you know, the guys with the other technetium moons) rather than having to travel 30 jumps in any direction just to get a 1v1 that instantly turns into a blobfest."
"supported. getting rid of them would be very much acceptable."
"thi is a great idea! though it is coming from ccp itself and not from csm.this would make 0.0 wars more interesting, decrease blobs and make the life in 0.0 more challenging than in high sec as it should be.very supported!btw:i my opinion jbs should be removed and the jump drive of capitals and super capitals should be removed (gate travel) or nerfed. the timer system should be reworked.- when a tower is reinforced, it can only keep up the big ff for 1-2h afterwards the ff shriks so that it only protects the tower.- after the ff has shrunck, the anchored modules can be either hacked and stolen or destroyed.black ops:- should become cheaper and keep the ability to use covert cynos.- covert cynos should get a range buff.- covert cynos should get tight mass restrictions (like wh)- covert cyno can be only opened every 3-6h in the same system.this would give the sov holders an incentive to devide their forces in order to protect their assets, since they can't cyno in the blob within minutes anymore.black ops would become much more usefull."
"that's... interesting, since people are pointing out the fact that coalitions and \"blobs\" have been in eve since long before jb's and the sov system and removing them won't effect that but will get rid of a good game mechanic for no good reason. how about because it's not your choice?the game is a sandbox and people get to play their own way. if they want to form pacts so their home is safe space and they're not currently fighting with neighbors, that's their call. if they want to go 30 jumps for a fight, that's their call too.you either have player-created, player-driven content, or you don't. you can't have a player-created political landscape and then get upset that the politics that they've created aren't the ones you'd create if you were in control."
"sandbox or not, you can only do what tools let you. and tools are provided by ccp. you aren't implying that tools are and should be built without regard to use? i'm not sure that would be any good for the game as it is now."
"all of those are based on point of view. right now power blocks things putting as many people into once system to lag it out, is a tactic and a strategy. also their version of good pvp is 50 of them verses 5 of you. also with you not loading grid. now that is a good fight for them. any changes to take those tactics, strategy and their version of a good fight, will result in them fighting any change and raging on the forums as loud as possible to keep it from happening.in my opinion there is no good pvp left in 0.0 and the only tactic/strategy is blob the **** out of the other person where a players skills, fitting, even ship sometimes is all irrelevant.also, get rid of static moon income already! so ****ing stupid that this is still around.edit: finnagain, it is extremely entertaining watching you desperately try to counter everyone in this thread that is for jump bridge removal. if anything, all you are doing is making it more and more obvious how much you and a ton of others in power blocks rely on jump bridges for absolutely everything you do.it is a huge crutch for a lot of power block members, it will be interesting to see which ones are able to remember how to use their legs and which ones fall flat on their face if they are removed."
"this. i was in a medium-sized alliance around the time jump bridges came out that tried to get into null sec. we were given the ultimatum \"if you aren't nc then you are with bob.\" claiming there were three major power blocks at that time is almost a stretch. i understand you are proud of goon heritage and all, but in the grand scheme of things you guys were pretty small beans back then.removing bridges won't break up the blocks, if anything, they will probably become tighter. again, i will point out that if you want to open up null space, you need to increase the ability to project force in null sec. this means alliances/blocks don't have time to worry about the little guys as they are more constantly under threat of attack by the other power blocks."
"jb have next to nothing to do with the fabled \"blob\" at all. i don't get why people are still trying so hard to shoot themselves in the foot by repeating this fallacy over and over again. it is doing this proposal a huge disservice.the problem of jb is one of force projection, travel speed and the ease of defending large territories, and how eve got a lot smaller due to that. high numbers are only tangentially a result of this."
"yes, they also have next to nothing to do with power blocs forming, but people allege that, too. but as marlona demonstrates, what's really going on is that some people are angry at coalitions, and they think that removing jb's will hurt coalitions, so they're for it. hell, even greyscale's logic is apparently that coalitions are bad, so he'd like to try to break them up. it seems to be the school of \"eve is based around player-created empires and player-driven content and, wait, you are player-creating wrong! do it the way i'd do it if i was creating it, player!\" see, even there the effect is being overstated. during the invasion of the drone regions recently, thousands of pilots hauled all their gear down to the lowsec systems within jump range of the combat zone, and we made significant gains. that was 100% without jump bridges playing any effect once stores were moved to the front lines. even rage's advance in the north-east wasn't truly dependent on jump bridges and, generally, was simply speeded up by, what, 15 minutes, a half hour? that wouldn't have made any real difference in terms of invasions. and defenders have the luxury of stront timeing and sov structure timing and so on. you don't need to make it for the first attack and can easily ready a defense for the second even if you need to travel 15 extra jumps (or 30). the ability to raise a fleet of pilots who are willing to spend hours on an op is what enables force projection. not bridges, not titan bridging, not cynos. and with jump clones, even time isn't all that much of an issue. move a fleet down to attack an objective, dock up in lowsec/npc 0.0 and clone jump back to your hq if you need to defend something. you could nerf jump drives, jump bridges, jump bridging and, hell, reduce ships' warp velocity by 90%, and a bunch of players who are willing to go x jumps to attack a target will still be able to project force. yes, and changing the tools that people are using because you don't like how they're choosing to play in the sandbox means that you've no longer got a sandbox game. if the objection is \"people should be using these tools to fight each other, not cooperate\", as it certainly is as suggested by ccp, then it's bull****. the role of ccp is not to determine what the political landscape of the sandbox will look like, that's the job of the people playing the game. give proof or retract that any powerbloc, in the game, deliberately tries to induce lag rather than simply bringing a bunch of folks and not caring about lag. as is well known, lag only effects one side in a battle, it can smell reds like wolves smell fear. yes yes, brilliant factual refutation. or ad hominem bull... hrmm... yah, on second thought, definitely not the factual refutation one. feel free to actually address the facts and the arguments made. it's neat."
"1 jump bridge per constellation."
"but they do have to determine validity of a tool. it's ccp job to say whether tool is or is not performing what it was built for. once players find unintended uses, it's on ccp to either legalize such use or prevent it. it can't be any other way. players will always push whatever they can to win. that's natural. some ways of playing will be found lacking and ignored. these ignored options are either removed or improved, because maintaining ignored options is waste of resources. that's what balance cycles do.you can't really put ccp out of game. they have to have at least some vision where all of it is going. while they should not have a say on who should be controlling space, they most certainly should care how is controlling done."
"what unintended uses are we talking about though, seriously? people weren't using jb's to get into jove space or anything. the bridges are serving exactly as intended. what they weren't 'intended' to do, evidently, is aid groups that want to cooperate (past a certain arbitrary threshold). but that's not how you design a tool. if you want to design a tool that lets people move around, then that's its use. if you want to design a tool to make politics in a player-driven game turn out the way you want, then that's not a tool, that's altering game mechanics to stop players from creating the content and driving the game. which is fine, i guess, if that's the goal and ccp is honest about it. if ccp came out tomorrow and said \"eve is no longer a player-driven game with player-created political content. instead, groups of players will have to adhere to official ccp guidelines. they are as follows...\"now, it'd be a different game, and one many of us probably wouldn't want to play anymore, but it'd at least be straight forward. but this \"it's a sandbox... hey, you're sandboxing wrong!\" stuff is absurd. their vision used to be \"eve is the biggest mmo on the market where players create and control their own destines and politics is a vibrant and interesting part of the game. it's a game where thousands of people, from all parts of the world, can fight over one single objective that is persistent and matters.\"that doesn't seem to be the vision anymore. they also don't have a leg to stand on, assuming that politics are player-created, when they try to dictate how that controlling is done. if my political system is to force my neighbors to mine minerals and pay tribute to me so i don't attack them, why is that any more or less valid, in a sandbox game, than blueing my neighbor and kicking the head in of some guy across the map? or setting all my neighbors red. or setting the entire universe red and only accepting mercenary contracts. or whatever. eve is either a game whose politics and content are created and driven by players, or it's a game whose politics and content are created by ccp. but if it is, ccp needs to be explicit in the fact that they're changing their model."
"finnagain zero, i am aware that a dedicated pvp alliance with 20+ gangs and 10+ stealth bombers can effectively camp a jb. i also know that after the first kill they would be scouted (enemy becomes aware of their jb camp) and warns everyone in the intel chat. at which time a counter-blob would be organized and sent again thru the jbjb are pretty good at organizing alliance blobs and projecting power over long distances. but none of that is good for small scale fights, or even for good fightsi spend nearly all my time in 0.0, for years and years, and i very rarely see hostiles camping jbs. i know it happens when there's a big fleet battle / pos bashing op, but not on regular days.casual pvp suffers due to lack of stargate traffic. being able to quickly organize a huge blob is often worse than having a smaller blob - as you just scare off the hostiles needlessly so they don't bother engaging. how often do alliance pvpers spend time just waiting? waiting for hours until fc says it's time to do something?dunno about you, but i find that very boring. and that's what pvp is becoming - just lots of waiting and mega blob fighting. that's what jb promote. jb discourage everything else - as they reduce stargate traffic"
"itt: strawmen.the problem is that it is currently trivial to project force and large fleets across the game in no time.the problem is that jump bridges, titan bridges and cynos are not working as intended.who determines what is \"working as intended\"? ccp would be my guess.this is not a discussion about whether 0.0 has devolved into a safer than empire land of love where powers are completely entrenched and impossible to move due to said force protection. and personally i don't care too much if ccp likes finn's friends, the nc, it, or whoever or not. things are, as determined by ccp \"not working as intended\".it was not the intent of ccp to have highways that spawn the whole game. and it is the intent of ccp to change this.and this is something that (probably quite contrary to the desires of the person that started this thread, and finn) is supported by a vast amount of players. furthermore as if finn claims, its possible to project the same force without jump bridges and keep his coalitions intact, then there is no grounds to oppose their removal as they won't affect any of the elements finn seems to support, other than the \"highway connecting everything\" aspect which the playerbase, and more importantly ccp wants gone.because its not working as intended. as stated by the devs of the system. and personally i trust them more to know what they intended or not than finn who quite obviously has an underlaying agenda of \"leave things the way they are because i like them\" and strawmen about player created politics.and really, if the system changes and the players change their politics, nc is no longer the super friends, or whatever, does it stop being player controlled politics? are the players replaced by aliens or something?fact is ccp has changed sov mechanics a large number of times, and well, most mechanics in general beyond \"ships blow up when exploded\". they want to do so again and get rid of a broken system that makes space small, moving blobs trivial, attrition impossible, and attack and defense riskless by allowing the same fleet to do both. basically, to bring risk to the part of the game with the greatest rewards.i missed the part where empire and low should be htfu and 0.0, hello kitty online. i am sure a grave for jump bridges is right next to the one for the learnings. and they will be about as missed."
"you do know what the most likely outcome is when a \"blob\" jumps through a jb with a dictor already waiting on the other side and a wave or two of bombers at pounce points above the jb, right? why is the game supposed to be about small scale fights? if you want to find a small group of people to fight with your small group of people, more power to you. but it's obvious that lots of people enjoy large scale pvp. why is their way of enjoying the game any less valid than yours?as for \"good fights\" i'm just going to leave that one alone. whether or not players chose to do it (again, sandbox) is not relevant to whether or not they can. why is it ccp's job to funnel targets into your guns and make sure that your style of play, casual pvp, is boosted? why don't you join red vs blue? with stargate traffic generally you'll only gank lone targets anyways, as any half-decent fleet will have you scouted and then whether or not they choose to jump into you will be the same whether or not they took jb's to get to you. and if your only concern is getting ganks on stargates, then ganking ratters or getting ganks on jb's should do just fine."
"eve is a created closed game system. it's built by ccp according to certain specifications. it only allows players to do what system is designed to do by the developer. any unintended action is effectively an exploit (whether bug or \"feature\"), to be addressed by devs. maybe this breaks your vision of eve, but that's the truth. that did not change since beginning.if you want a specific example regarding jump bridges: yes, jump bridges allow people to move around, and that's it's use. however, speed and cost of moving is what ccp has every right and duty to control. while players may have ideas what such speed and cost should be, it's ccp that has to decide based on what ccp wants."
"people have been addressing facts about what jump bridges doing left and right all through the forums. you just have the mindset to spin their words, lie, throw out statements like they are the law of all things, use scare tactics like saying, \"it will just cause larger blobs\", \"you only hurt yourself\", \"it will kill any hope of small alliances in 0.0\", etc.... or just flat out ignore what people are saying.the bottom line is you are scared. you are scared that your 22,000 (or is it higher?) man super coalition will shatter. you are scared to have enemies that are closer than three regions away. you are scared that you will have to *gasp* use resources in your area to get supplies from instead of having everything stamped with \"made in jita\" all over it. the thing you are scared of most, is effort. this is not wow or hello kitty online. effort should yield reward. you have it in your mind that it will be the end of the game as we know it if the jump bridge is removed. you like to sling \"adapt or die!\" around all the damn time. so i say to you, if ccp does remove jump bridges... adapt or die!me personally, i don't like coalitions. never have. even before jump bridges. there is already a lot of mechanics to enable people to be ~friends~ in the game. you can be in the same corp, and then if enough corps like each other, you can make an alliance. this is fine. a couple of alliances want to be blue to accomplish a goal, now we are starting to get out of hand.the best example of going over the top with standings of course is the northern coalition. how many alliances are blue to each other? i mean including renters and pets (sorry but your part of it even if you claim your not, if your blue your in) i mean it is something like 30+ or something. perhaps someone could post actual numbers of alliances in the nc and total member count.if anything, it is just like super carriers. one or two on the battlefield is one thing, but when you put like 30+... well, now you hopefully understand what i mean. oh, and those 30+ super caps are attacking 4 ferox's and iteron mark v. that is the issue. your just too blind with rage at the idea of having to put forth effort in 0.0 again when it comes to logistics and power projection. but hey, you have your mind made up and even when presented with endless facts, you just choose to ignore/spin everything in hopes that people will change their mind and think power blocks are good for 0.0."
"if you want evidence of how bridges have completely taken over transport in null, take a look at jump statistics on map.one should think that with presumably tens of thousands of people ratting, mining, pew'ing all over the place, that stargates would be seeing a lot more activity (less than 15/hr or so for the most part).want to bet that bridge traffic are an order of magnitude higher in most parts of null?it is fine to have them as a supplement or augmentation to normal gates but not as what is probably closer to a replacement.they need to be restricted in some way, either by number or function:- 1 per 2 constellations in a region still allows for ease of movement, or - limit them to industrial type ships letting titans handle military matters."
"as far as \"good\" fighting goes, one can make an rts analogy (eve is a bit similar to rts)lets say you are playing starcraft or any other rts, but with 1 new feature: instant teleportation gates that you can setup all over the map. in addition to being able to teleport, these little things also act as strong turret and have a area force field that makes your force invulnerable while they are inside it.now think carefully what kind of gameplay that would create.naturally you'd set a couple of them in your base, and as you move toward the enemy on other end of the map, you setup more and more of them. you start by building up forces in your home base and then quickly teleporting them to enemy doorstep. if it so happens that you didn't scout properly and enemy already has a force very near your base, you don't need to worry as you just use the teleportation devices to quickly return home, defend your base.what would be the point of strategic manuevering? would there ever be a need to have more than just 1 huge blob? 1 blob can be anywhere you need it to be fast, if you got those teleportation devices. not to forget that you can always \"get safe\" in the force field, if your enemy brings stronger force.i'm sure such rts would be amusing to play for a while - a short while - but as the novelty of it wears off, any serious strategy gamer would see how \"lame\" the whole game is. they would feel it instinctively as wrong. because they would feel the limitation of viable strategy choices imposed by the rules of the game.if you honestly believe that you would enjoy such rts more than traditional ones, and not just for a couple days, then i guess it's your preference for simplistic war games. it can't be helped i suppose."
"that doesn't have anything to do with my vision for eve. we've already established that people aren't using jb's as an exploit, but 100% in accord with the function as was developed. they do. but 1) just because they can do something doesn't mean that it's a good idea and 2) if they want to do something, explicitly, in order to disrupt the sandbox and prevent certain political alignments, then it becomes in violation of what ccp has said eve is all about. ahh, the argument from nuhn unhhh!!! a breath of fresh air, as always. obviously, if there were any truth to anything you're claiming, you could quote what happened and refute my claims. you can't, because you made it all up. it's also ironic to see you lying in order to make up **** and claim i ever did. all the quotes you've used, for instance, are fabricated. but please, do point out where i've lied, for example. ahhh, the ever-popular ad hominem fallacy, coupled with internet psychology. convincing. ~gasp!!!~ not to belabor the obvious, but you're playing eve. people get to play the game the way they like it, including fighting and helping who they like. if you don't like it, that's too bad. not to belabor the obvious, again, but you're playing eve.a fair fight is an error on someone's part. if someone wants to gank your cruiser with a vindicator? sucks to be you. for balanced combat, you need to seek instanced combat with level restrictions. ya know, like wow. yah, again, why don't you actually point out any of my arguments that you claim are wrong, and show why, rather than lying and/or just playing the argument from nuhn uhhn! come on, you obviously think my position is wrong. try to show where it's wrong, and why. one last thing. i'll point out that this is a further piece of dishonesty. i think the idea of \"good\" or \"bad\" \"for 0.0\" is an absurdity. people will play the game as they see fit. for those who enjoy it, it'll be \"good\" for them. for those who don't, it'll be \"bad\" for them. there is hardly a goodness o' meter to detect how good any political landscape is. people will form political structures as they see fit, that's what player-created, player-driven content means. you saying that you should be able to force other people to play the game the way you like rather than allowing them to play the game the way they choose is hardly what's \"good\" for anything, other than you. now care to address my actual argument?"
"you are taking statements out of context. my point was that what you call a \"sandbox\" is a limited system based on limited resources designed for a purpose. you can't blame ccp they want to \"break your sandbox\" because they have to maintain systems they designed."
"the reason that there are blobs and powerblocs in eve is to hold space. they are needed because of sov mechanics. period.it is sov mechanics, not jump bridges which are causing blobs. if people don't need to put up with their neighbors ****, they won't.becoming? pvp in eve has always been waiting, and boring. then a few moments of terror. it seems that you are attacking alliances which are organized and co-ordinated. that will be difficult with a small force.*now i attempt to be constructive*if blob warfare is the \"problem\" and there needs to be more \"skirmish\" warfare, then game mechanics can usually be blamed. i personally enjoy blob warfare, but not shooting stuff to claim or protect sovereignty. whatever :ccp: decides to do, i think they are on the correct path just moving slooww. make every system deeper and more interesting with planetary interaction, multiple stations, tons of wormholes and scannable stuff. make it so that pi, mining, and manufacturing can provide the necessary materials for self-sustaining corporations who never have to leave their constellation. the sov mechanics absolutely require blobs to take and hold space. if you can't drive off 50 capitals, you have very little chance to take and hold space in 0.0...so if taking space requires blobs, those who form blobs hold space.sov mechanics need a sort of bottom-up path as well as blob-oriented. if you cannot take sov without \"boots on the ground\" it will become a fight, planet-by-planet that a reasonably well-funded corp of say 100 people could actually claim a region without attacking the tcus, sbus, etc after say 2 weeks if not driven back. increasing the depth of each system will prevent systems from being a notch in an alliances belt, forcing them to \"skirmish\" and pay constant attention to a system so it will become more difficult to hold a lot of space.it seems like we are suffering the interim of planned software releases. with the incredibly smooth deployment of incursion 1.1 i guess ccp is sorta getting their quality under control. maybe we will see walking-in-stations and dust 514 released soon, which i think will both change the nature of space."
"that's really only one reason. any objective of sufficient value will cause a \"blob\". tech moon? \"blob\". csaa building a titan? \"blob\". vulnerable supercapital fleet that's bubbled? \"blob\". any objective worth taking is generally going to be worth attacking, and defending, with everything you have. no, i'm not. jump bridges are not an exploit. they are not a tool being used contrary to its designed purpose. they are a tool being used exactly as designed in accord with game mechanics as intended. pos bowling was an exploit. jb's are not."
"/facepalmdude, you need to relax and take a deep breath."
"he is just arguing to argue at this point. he keeps screaming for people to present facts but he has as of yet to do the same."
"incidentally, a 'tunnel network' exactly matching this specification was included in c&c: generals, an rts game released several years ago, but only the terrorist side (with weaker individual units) had access to it, and only 10 or so units could be stored inside at any one time."
"i accept that you wish to concede the argument and cannot provide any factual refutations. thank you. i zeee. do you normally hear ze text as doing ze 'skreemink', and do you know what ze color blue tastes like? veddy veddy intereztink. speaking of all the lies you posted earlier, care to back any of them up? or post on my actual argument instead of trolling? as for your lie here about me not posting facts, of course i have. i've pointed out the fact that there were massive coalitions before jb's were introduced.i've pointed out the fact that \"blobbing\" and groups of alliances cooperating happened before sov was even introduced. i've pointed out that the fact that jb's are insignificant when it comes to an alliance or coalition level forward deployment to a stocked hq system in lowsec or npc nullsec near a target. i've pointed out the fact that that it's easy to gank targets on jb's. i've pointed out the fact that the ability to zip around the map is a theoretical and not a pragmatic one as fleets that are out for hours rarely, if ever, have the stamina and will left to go add a few more hours to their night. and so on, and so on, and so on. i understand that you can't address let alone refute my argument, which is why you're arguing the way you are. however, feel free to address my actual argument any time you'd like to stop trolling."
"ccp say that jump bridges and sov mechanics are not working as intended and wish to change them/get rid of them as per their own statements.i would say that ccp are more of an authority and reliable source than finnigan is regarding the game that ccp makes, ccp sells, and ccp develops.i think that should put whether they work as intended to rest: they do not."
"jbs are being used to transport fleets of over 300+ 50+ jumps and often times more than two regions in a space of 6 warps.who the hell are you to say whether this is their designed purpose? (here's a tip: this probably isn't their intended purpose.)edit: in conclusion, you're a ****** who doesn't want to lose his blob mechanics. csm is right on the money."
"i really think the logical solution is to do one of two things.1) only allow 1 jb per constellation. (imo, best option)2) only allow 1 jb per system. i've lived the null-sec life, i've had the chance to basically go from period basis to outer ring with using only a handful of gates. i simply think we should do away with the ability to spam jbs in any and every system. 1 per constellation seems, in theory, to be awesome. you can still move around with relative ease and keep logistics up (with a bit more work, ofc) -- however the jb now plays a much larger strategic role. which system do i link? what other constellations in range will be missed if you we do x instead of y? one could argue that this would just bring about the rise of titan taxi's, but the human element required makes it hit or miss, which is good. (i.e. you're only as mobile as the people you have online)i don't think it's appropriate to remove jbs. i actually think a complete removal would actually hinder overall population in a lot of deeper null-sec. or, just say screw it and allow anybody with the jb password to use them, friend or foe. add a little spice."
"from that list:1. strawman argument. nobody is denying it, it's not why jb should be nerfed.2. strawman. jb have nothing to do with it.3. irrelevant, this is about force projection on the defensive primarily, and secondarily about it being easier on an offensive. eye of terror anyone?4. strawman. nobody cares.5. umi->fountain back and forth: 30 minutes, including making bms for an entire fleet. entire trip: less than 2 hours. shot some venal moons afterwards. force projection literally across the map.your example about the drone region deployment is completely moot. jb are used to quickly project force on a smaller scale and much more spontaneus. the spontanity is what's making them so damaging.stop creating strawmen arguments all the time. the problem with jb lies where overstreched empires compensate overexpansion by rapid movement through bridges and where it is used to effectively render scouting pointless. they've cut down travel speed and made it possible to reach even backwater constellations without problems, create highly defensible fortresses (see fortress tribute) and eliminate the need for travel by gates almost entirely. (camp on the h-w gate in d7? just use a jb around it..)"
"i've already corrected you on this point, please don't replicate your errors. greyscale specifically stated that part of his desire to get rid of jb's was to break up coalitions. since coalitions existed before jb's, obviously introducing jb's is independent of the existence of coalitions. do you understand what a strawman is? my point is that jb's have nothing to do with it, despite people's claims that \"blobbing\" is related to them. i see that you're agreeing with my point. why you're calling it a strawman is anybody's guess. you're not even reading before you post off-the-cuff answers? i already pointed out that jb's only allows fleets to zip back on the defensive in theory, and in fact they're almost always spent and not ready for hours more pvp. i also pointed out that with timers being what they are, you don't need to get back. you are, also, evidently ignorant of what's going on. the issue of force projection, especially as brought up by greyscale, explicitly included offensive deployments across the galactic map. okay, you definitely don't understand what a strawman is. you are also evidently not even reading the thread, as i just got done, on this very page of the thread, with a discussion i had with someone claiming that one reason jb's had to go is that it's so hard to gank ships coming through them. numerous other people have also claimed that jb's have to go because they offer \"complete\" or \"virtual\" safety. mmm hmmm. umi to pnq is 19 jumps, with jb's. it's a whole (gasp!) 10 more jumps without jb's. obviously, that 10 minutes is game breaking. you are also ignoring what i actually pointed out, which is that after a deployment that can last hours, most pilots do not have the energy left to go back and get into another hours long fight. the number of jumps involved is inconsequential, the time investment is what's at issue. which is why i pointed out that the benefit of jb's is deceptive if it's not looked at in context. yep, as pointed out that's a benefit of ownership; you get to modify the chokepoint landscape. and as pointed out by me and then handwaved by you, you can be ganked on a jb just like a gate, too. in other words, it shows you are wrong as it's perfectly possible, and indeed often the chosen method, to deploy without using jb's and without needing them at all. especially for an invasion in which the invaders do not have even the potential to use jb's as they're in systems where their enemies still have sov. figure out wtf a strawman is before you try to argue against them. that's just basic.10 jumps saved umi to pnqy. your point does not hold, and defense is and was perfectly possible, with rapid reactions, before jb's. saving a handfull of minutes is hardly game breaking. if your fc's are clueless, i suppose. a good fc knows the enemy jb network (and titan pos's) and has scouts watching them. mmm hmmm. just like sov 4 was unbreakable and couldn't be shattered, until the great war ii when we broke and shattered bob's allies' sov 4. and tribute wouldn't be defensible without jb's. nawww. umi to m-o without jb's? a crushing seven whole jumps. through the snow. uphill. both ways."
"the main arguments have been presented and rehashed several times. there's no need to keep posting, unless you have something new to add.we need more information from ccp to continue"
"ccp should just remove the ability for anyone to use a jump bridge if they have standings and a password. there is no other module that lets someone outside of the alliance, standings blue or not, be able to use it. outside of being able to go in a pos force field. which should be changed too.they should just do a patch right now that eliminates blues from using jump bridges and going in a pos force field even if they are blue. you don't see a blue manning a pos gun on a blues pos just because they are blue do you?so finnagain, i suppose you don't think there is a problem with super carriers do you? i mean to change them at all would qualify this game as no longer being a sandbox according to your rules."
"unlike posting to tell someone else to stop posting. that's important. so marlona, you going to actually address anything i've said, ever? maybe just for a change? honestly, i'm not sure if that's a troll or if you simply don't understand what i've said, at all. this is why it would help if you respond to my actual argument rather than lying about things i haven't actually said or using the argument from nuhn uhnn! changing how things work is not sandbox breaking. i've never said it is, and i think you probably know that. what i did say, correctly, is that altering mechanics in order to change the political landscape of player-created, player-generated content, violates the principles of a sandbox game. do you honestly not understand the distinction between \"rockets need to be boosted so that ships that use them will be more balanced.\" or \"supers are currently not able to be countered effectively by something other than supers, and we'd like to change that.\" and \"we need to come up with gameplay and mechanics changes so we can try to hurt certain political groups and try to get them to fragment and to change the player-created content so that it's the way we want it, not the way the players create it.\" really? because, honestly, i'm at a loss to figure out what about that is unclear to you. can you clarify what exactly you don't grok?"
"good idea.supported."
"a repair-deck om what is essentially an aircraft-carrier? makes sense!if anyone sees balancing issues, maybe you have to actually carry repair-parts & mechanics to do this. (rp ftw!)"
"supported"
"\"oh. stand. wait!\" - the barman has told and has passed to whisper.\"that pilot whom you searched...\" - he has made whisper even more silently - \"he now here at station and it seems him search for the concord. it seems for him the quite good award is appointed! i share with you his site, for a modest payment in 40 million isk's, after all an award for him - the whole billion! you can buy the weapon in corridor n-5, the third deck of station, near to technical premises. we have a deal?\" ..."
"while, they hold development of incarna in a secret.probably, they simply already do something similar or have simply silently imported this idea to plans and don't submit signs of interest.though, maybe, they have counted it not as serious either bad idea or desire to receive the next pink pony.probably, at them it is simple, there is no time for it."
"supported, game needs more enslaved midgets..."
"good idea to assemble some input. let's hope ccp is willing to listen for a change... 2 possibilities come to my mind, either a \"freeze\" button that suspends movements for a couple seconds or a classical play/pause button. i'd rather not have movement totally suspended just because some people cba to upgrade their computers from 5 years ago. not sure the \"one unit bump\" would be that great an idea. might actually lead to even heavier calculation load. if the suggestion above with a freeze function passes through, it might be unnecessary anyway. nice idea, but again would prolly slow down the whole interface even more? and some people do already whine about low framerates in the cc. prolly easier to have some sort of log scroll in a small window at the bottom with text entries for each change. should require less in terms of system resources than a fancy visual gimmick.sounds good in theory, but if you want to convert all the data to some text-based format... not a problem if ten people do it at a time. or maybe even 100. but unless the whole process does not in any way involve data transfer to the server i'd rather not have the risk of massive extra server load. and thus people playing \"dress a doll\" impact the people actually trying to play the game by bogging down the server. so it does have to be a purely client-side solution there imo.i'll add three more inputs from my side:- add a (limited) option for coloring the clothing. it seems rather unreasonable you can color (to some extent) makeup, hair, etc. but are stuck with exactly one color on the rather limited supply of clothing. not asking for 50+ colors to pick from for any given piece of clothing, but maybe 5 or 6? especially the pants seem rather too uniform atm. rather than have like currently 3 trouser models displayed in 2 or 3 colors, just go with a single model and enable coloring there. might sure make it more user-friendly. :)- give people a chance to \"show some leg\" on their full-body avatars. sure, it will not show up as of now, but we're getting input for future tweaks here. and there is no apparent reason why male chars cannot wear knee-length shorts e.g., or why there is no option for female chars with the longish, closed-up overcoat/dress to simply waive the \"bottom\" option. and thus get a short dress and shoes and some decent amount of leg showing. (latter should actually be rather easy to implement, just check if flag for long overcoat/gown is set, if so, enable an extra option to not choose pants.)- already during test phase on sisi the issue of skin tones had been raised. the now existing ones seem nicely balanced and all... but they're too few for some bloodlines. would be nice if they could be expanded to at least the state of the old ones. if that is for some reason impractical, then maybe an extra option additionally shading the existing 5 per bloodline? a single extra slider might do for that one. especially as the the current \"wheel\" for skin tones does not really seem to reflect the actual tone applied to the model."
"not shortcuts, in fact not even scrolling. i'd like a fixed grid, as then there would be no need to render the scrolling (ate up resources on my pc)."
"add for user interface:customization step:1. when i change one shirt for a other shirt, their changeover happens not at once and it is visible that on hoses and some other parts of clothes there is a color from previous for a few seconds.it suggests at once that would be very good, to make possibility of a choice of color and a coloring for each model of a jacket, a boot, a shirt and trousers.it will be very good flexibility and diversifies selection of clothes for color, for choosy players.girls, for example, can't live without that colors of clothes were combined was harmonic among themselves.2. that we can create the character in an unbuttoned jacket, without putting on of a vest it is very good. i have created such character.but from here there is very unpleasant moment:on female characters very much not the beautiful bra, by default, is put on. there should be a small variation of underwear.portrait creation step:1. on a step of creation of a portrait we have possibility create four photos from which we can to select only one for avatar.many peoples say that were mistaken that didn't know or didn't note what of four photos is selected automaticaly.i was mistaken, thus, two times on a test server.the first time i simply didn't know that the photo need to be selected.the second time i simply haven't noted that that photo which was necessary to me is selected not.it is necessary to make the frame of the selected photo fatter and brighter, and also the warning that it is necessary to select one of four which very well would remind: \"don't forget to select the best picture at the left!\".same idea in this post.2. it would be good, if there was a possibility to zoom-in each of four made photos because, they so small that it is very difficult to see on them an overall picture.sometimes, very badly visible even that the character has blinked during making photo.3. to add some facial muscles and to expand their mobility, for more floppy mimicry. eyes, for example, can move very little. the character can't look sideways at all.and still it is a lot of many-many questions and missing parts, but maybe more of it is not about \"interface\":for some long hairdresses, it would be magnificent to have a slider regulating length of hair.for female and male's characters there is a impossibility to change width of shoulders. their thickness and the form changes only.the classical female figure - hips is wider than shoulders, but often there is also a reverse pattern in life. in the editor, almost always, it turns out that shoulders are wider than hips or the width of shoulders is equal to width of hips.not clearly, why so hair color there is not enough also there are no bright, shouting colors. after all implementation of superimposing of color on ready model of a hairdress is not so difficult i think.in real life, the person can go to shop and buy a hair-dye of any color.the person can burn out color of the hair to the blonde and any color lays down on hair very bright.in game are presented, only natural a hair color but why there is no possibility to make any other color?when hair grow, it becomes visible natural color about their roots but if hair are painted just even roots are colored.also, are disregarded widow's peaks about which it is written in this post.i support all ideas wited on first post of this thread."
"excellent ideas posted.i'm missing the timeline allowing you to revert to a previous state, which was displayed on sisi and can be seen on movies, but apparently got pulled.some of the small preview images barely show visible differences.one of my main complaints on the new creator, altho it isn't really ui, is the limited amount of art assets. for most clothes, there are actually only two models, repeated in different color palettes. then there are the limited color palettes on things like makeup, limited number of accessories and ofc the missing tattoos. the backgrounds, apart from the higher resolution, are barely a step up. i am quite annoyed at the much more limited lighting and lighting color options."
"i can agree with these changes, especially the clothing colors, image freeze, and zoomed photo suggestions. the new character creator is very nice, but it could be improved. supported."
"small note, trebor, if you want to pool the suggestions for the cc development you prolly should sticky this thread."
"not sure if this has been suggested, but an undo button would be nice.also, for modeling the skin, a wireframe overlay so that we can see the subtle curves would help."
"support"
"i support this idea"
"+1 good idea"
"+1sglaasio [xssqx]"
"particularly if it could be linked with redeployment. say that if a station is in a broken state, a new egg can be deployed, effectively replacing the previous station with the new one, and all player hangars move over to the new station. upgrades are lost.further... upgrade platforms must go through a separate reinforcement cycle set before a station can be broken. much like the ihub; you break the platform first and then can finally break the station."
"1.0"
"i support this idea"
"1.0"
"looks well thought through, +1."
"what apsidia said."
"+1 great idea!"
"i support this idea"
"1.0"
"you can blow up a pos and destroy/loot the contents. why should you not be able to do this with a station"
"yah-yah... das ist fantastish ))"
"some interesting ideas, supported to allow further discussion and development.support additional proposal to require additional resources to fix stations.perhaps specialised remote repair modules.perhaps use hacking skills/modules to allow players to recover their stuff from broken stations."
"remote repair modules sounds boring... we see this billion times in game.kindness and care rays. treatment rays. rays pouring health/armor, mana/energy. rays, rays, rays, rays and other rays...for a long time it is time to make something new, more present, specific and realistic, than it is simple rays.about hacking... hm... maybe only the pilot who's hacking skill learned on 5lvl can hack the station brain inside the dock, for its security reconfiguration..."
"i agree"
"1.0"
"+1 i like it!"
"k"
"+1 yes, yes, yes! i think there should be much more of this type of damage dealing without capturing territory. things like this that add complexity to the usual back and forth of sov warfare are great ideas."
"1.0"
"it wiil be fun :)"
"1.0"
"as the idea of hankey and my idea will look together at a real station (outpost) siege:possibility to appropriate station, appears only after period of the third reinforced mode and after destruction of half, or 1/3 of a structure.it will cause serious failures in operation of its vital subsystems and station can't resist to capture and assignment by corporation.for the corporation owning stations in 0.0 regions, it will be necessary to have a store of spare parts and supplies for repairing of stations and to urge on extraction of planetary minerals by purchase of a quantity of these resources or to develop extraction by own forces.the given resources will cost certain, completely not small total of money, but not such which is necessary for construction of the whole new station.thereby, for corporation, the stimulus won't allow to the enemy even to do its attempt to destroy.for corporation or an alliance, it is necessary will not only destroy a shield and the station armor, being not killed in fight, but also to provide during certain time protection of the repair crew consisting of several transport ships with spare parts.they should remote repair the armor and a transport shield, not to allow to enemies to approach too close, probably, to have in a store one more truck with spare parts.the enemy can prevent station assignment, having destroyed the trucks with spare parts and supplies before the outflow of time of minimum repairing of station."
"when wormholes came out, they were the big unknown, unpredictable, nobody knew about statics, so they were interesting and fun. nowadays we have staticmapper, and every wormhole has become mapped, we always know exactly what to expect, what statics there are, and so on and so forth. what i suggest is making w-space unpredictable again, as it should be. make it always have 1 or 2 exits as it has nowadays, but make these exits random. if a wormhole has a static to another wormhole, make that wormhole randomly be a connection to any type of wormhole, so anything from c1 to c6. likewise, if the wormhole has a kspace connection, make this random too, either hs, ls or null. it would make life a lot more interesting and fun, plus it would prevent having certain systems being valueable whereas other systems being completely worthless due to their statics."
"thumbs up to making wh space interesting again"
"supporting my own proposal."
"supported. it'll give a new lease of life back to wspace."
"1.0"
"supported"
"1.0"
"maybe something where it becomes chance based and completely based on class of system. number of outbound wh would be 0 to 3 with 1 being highest likelihood. then each wh has certain chance of being either w-space or k-space. if k-space the high, low, null would also be chance based witrh class 1 being maybe 50/30/20, but a class 6 being 5/25/70 or something. if w-space they would be more heavily weighted to the same class system. so a class 1 would connect more to class 1 and 2 then 5 and 6. same in reverse. then also each wh has a chance of respawning.but whole heartedly vote for more \"randomness\" in statics."
"i like this.also add more in w-space. roaming patrols... i think it's safe to say that we've manage to wake the sleepers, let them be more active. include (random chance) some higher level signatures and anomalies in lower systems (i.e. c1 can spawn c2 or c3, c4 can spawn c5 or c6) - this provides an occasional challenge to local residents and a potentially serious surprise to w-hole raiders."
"i support this and wish to see it implemented."
"+1as i know little about wormholes, i thought this was how they worked already. i'm a bit disappointed to learn that is not the case."
"when busy also make some anomalies at least have random spawns, and that shouldnt mean they bbq everything in site, just that you get a bit more different situations. when busy also implement that for missions, normal anomalies, well pretty much everything."
"i support the general idea. another thing to do would be to prevent towers above a certain size from being anchored in low c-level wormholes; wormhole space is supposed to be unknown, not an impregnable fortress-home."
"proposing removing concording for rr someone that gets himself concorded. it's not like you can tank concord with rr anyway. it may become a major problem for public incursion fleets if not removed."
"at some point, you could tank concord with rr. but i agree, fleets of people not in the same corp with rr will become death traps if this is not changed.supported."
"****ing supported, its rediculous that you can be concorded for helping someone out. is the peace loving concord against the spirit of charity and universal capsuleer support?"
"actually this is a problem because of the new grieving tactic. to deal with the incursions, a lot of people are planning on spider tanking. becasue of this, one person getting concorded could lead to the entire fleet getting wiped out by concord. it would be a mess.at one point, this was needed. but now its going to cause issues with the new content. ccp should fix it."
"yeah baby, i like what ur doing to me"
"it would b so much better if i could hump em tho ;)"
"seriously ccp, why remove one of the smarter ideas you guys had in a long time. not only do pvper's like it, carebears like it too. gief back naow kthnkx, or your pretty much proving that customer support should be read as :customersupport:kthnkx"
"i hate pvper's but i support this"
"i rat, makes it easy to select targets while stealth bomber speed tanking. way to go ccp."
"i too hate pvp and support this idea."
"ofc"
"come on"
"agreed. an excellent gameplay feature that needs to be returned."
"supported, we need this back asap!"
"agreed! please give it back to the community!"
"just once i'd like to have a patch/expansion that doesn't break the overview./supported."
"i don't think they removed it intentionally, they probably just broke it with the shortcut modifications."
"supported."
"of course."
"at the risk of sounding like a noob, what in the heck is overview freeze?"
"i'm a miner and a pvper in both cases this would be awesome! full support +1"
"+1also see the following thread for a more detailed discussion on this issue."
"this man speaks the truth"
"/signed."
"i was wondering if this had happened but never had a chance to check yet. supported"
"fix this!!!"
"warp to 0 to a station in low-sec land 2000 off get podded as it won't let you dock till your under 500m.petition, our logs show nothing.thanks for reading"
"why are you wasting gm time by petitioning dying away from station range? you are crying about landing a few meters away from station when previously it was 15km.if anything station dock range should be reduced. at the moment you can undock, hold invulnerability and instantly dock up again."
"...what ship were you in?dock range on stations is 2000, i've never heard of a ship landing outside it when they warp to 0."
"yeah dock range is 2000, sometimes you land up to ~2500 though. same thing with gates, sometimes land a few meters from the 2500m jump range."
"umad? :)"
"gimme, gimme, gimme."
"i for the most part agree completely with the op. one thing that really annoys me is shooting at a pos. all of the beams, missiles and whatever go right through the shield and hit the pos itself. i want to see the damage being done to the sheild itself. ships used to have a bubble sort of shield around them. ccp pulled the shields in tight to make it more realistic i think. visible ship damage...absolutely. rendered client side not by the server. base it on the level of shields, armor and hull. missiles don't miss...unless they fall short of the target in which case they dissapear...this is fine...but if a beam misses...i wanna see that beam fly off into space and dissipate. seeing beams hit the same point on a ship over and over is also annoying. is there something special about that spot on the ship? i am also a little tired of seeing myself warp \"through\" objects in space. make it so we cannot see what is around us while in warp and this issue is resolved. nobody will even care at that point whether you warped through the planet or not. i know they already stated that they would be updating the nebulae and clounds...so thats coming...\"soon\". we know that all the ships are going to get an update for textures and whatnot and possibly complete facelifts like the scorpion redesign...hopefully stations will to. as to that...my guess is that the inside of stations will change with incarna... :p"
"i support thisp.s.actually, the main thing on what i hope is that a year or two from now when server hardware becomes very powerful and fast, ccp can implement a dynamic card of a galaxy.that it was realistic and probable.that stars and constellations twisted in a spiral and flied in interstellar space of a galaxy round a black hole - galaxy center.that planets rotated round stars, instead of were at a stop.that the moon rotated round planets, stations rotated on orbits of the moon, asteroid belts drifted on solar system on a curve orbit round the sun or planets, and comets often visited solar system, sometimes touching planets and stations.there would be a set of casual events connected to solar winds, explosions of stars, a birth supernew, collisions with meteorites and still set of other not less interesting ideas.further my sick imagination draws patterns of very dangerous fights of the ships in atmosphere with possible combustion or falling on a surface. the full integration of worlds dust514 and eve each other etc.oh a pony... pink ponies... and rainbows... so much rainbows..."
"up!"
"down!doh! didn't work. just kidding./supported"
"dang. i'd been hopeful that this would make it in with incursion.new portrait system is neat-o and all, but the option would be preferable.nudge!"
"fully supported & endorsed.i really like this idea. i hope ccp reads this topic."
"it's been raised several times before. here for examplenow that the portraits autoload, the one use that i had for them - being able to tell who in local i'd 'checked out' and who i had not - has gone. the fact i'm not able to turn these tiny portraits off just depresses me."
"ofcourse why not...."
"supported."
"kill the problem at the source. remove local."
"instead of giving capitals and supercapitals such an ability, consider giving assault frigates a unique role bonus in that they can apply ewar towards ships normally immune to such effects (supercapitals, carriers in triage, dreads in seige). assault frigates are not invulnerable on their own, but with appropriate support they can be used as a handy counter?"
"well liang i have no idea who you are but your grasp on what is needed is loose to say the least. giving supers and caps the ability to tackle eachother does not reduce capital or super capital spam. which was the problem discussed by ccp in the minutes.furthermore, if your grasp on shield tanking fits is just lacking and thats all i can say. any low slot cap mod other than a pdu is a terrible idea on an active shield tank. which is the only kind of shield tank that truly requires large amounts of cap for short period of time not to mention the lac of a lowslot cap battery and a lowslot cap injector. so zip the lip before you lose the tip, chip. this fix to capital spam will be found in the sub capital class is ccp is smart (crosses fingers)because this will end the linear escalation of force present in eve at the moment. it will transform the linear system of escalation to a cyclical system where the counter to a super cap fleet is a sub cap fleet and the counter to a sup cap fleet is a cap fleet, and the counter to a cap fleet is a super cap fleet, and through the circle we go.this wouldnt be hard and would for all intensive purposes fix 3 problems in eve.1) super cap proliferation2) escalation to super cap blob for no reason.3) the only effective counter to supers being more supersso think outside the box, out side of the nerf buff frame of mind. its so immature and 2009, following the my dad can beat up your dad argument."
"this would be a neat idea.....if 10 supercaps couldnt kill an 80 man supercap fleet with ease. if you want a capital ewar ship that would probably have to be a new ship type and right now ccp wants to reduce capitals online not make it worse."
"i agree that ewar needs some changing, and that it should come in the form of a small tweak. but i disagree with simply allowing capitals to ewar each other. if any ship can ewar a capital it should be a black ops.as for the cap recharger/cpr debate, it's finely balanced as-is. boosters take up more capacitor-per-hp than reppers, but require 1 less slot if you want a heavy tank. obviously a low-slot module that gives large capacitor regeneration should have a tradeoff with the one module that could truly be overpowered with it, the shield booster. an armor dual-rep setup would have one less low slot to use a cpr so it's balanced."
"it isn't intended to be an ewar platform. the thing is that if 2 opposing super caps land on each other, nobody will die. they will sit there and bash on each others shields then warp off. make it so all capitals can warp disrupt super capitals, they might actually start dieing.it isn't intended to be a end all fix for the problem either. it is a tweak, that in reality there could be a meeting at ccp about it tomorrow and could go into the next patch."
"no, of course it a tweak like this wouldn't make an immediate difference to supercap spam, but it would add more ways to tackle them. i'm not sure why you would think that adding more ways to tackle supercaps wouldn't reduce their overall numbers?my grasp on shield tanking capitals is obviously much better than your own:- a pdu i can understand. you're going for max ehp and get the ability to run your (local or remote) reps for a few more seconds as as side benefit.- the cap flux you suggested is just flat ******ed.- the penalty on cprs is stacking nefed, and shield boost amps almost entirley negate that penalty. furthermore, their cap generation is not stacking nerfed and extremely powerful. you will want cap power relays to run your rr, and it still leaves you with a very reasonable active tanked shield capital.a few comments:- what we have now is already not linear. supercaps are far more powerful than regular capitals.- sub capital fleets don't have the dps to kill supercaps even if they get them tackled.- we already have sub capital counters to supercaps.-liang"
"love it! full support +1"
"i would not support at first.this might / would effect ship prices too much. instead of building ships in their area and selling them there - the ships can be built in a cheaper region with cheaper minerals and shipped too easily.thats why i would not support this type of ship at first.give the ship 1hp for shields / for armor and hull and then its very gankable - so i would go with it."
"my proposal is a simple graphical bar that comes up the screen when activating your mining beams. on the bar, there is an arrow that at any time can randomly drift to the left and right, showing the mining lasers are going out of alignment. when the beams are aligned, the arrow is green and when they begin miss-aligning, they flash yellow, turning red when they reach the end. if they reach the end of either side of the bar, the lasers shut off. all that's needed to steady the lasers is to use your mouse to bring the arrow back to the middle and hold it for a few seconds until the arrow turns green again. if the arrow turns red and your lasers shut off, you must use the mouse to bring the arrow back to the middle of the bar and hold it until it turns green and reactivate your lasers. the beauty of the system is that the timing of misalignment is random and the mouse is required to bring thing back into sync, requiring an actual player to be on hand to keep things operating."
"i don't know if it's possible to obtain a negative isk value, but it shouldn't be."
"signed"
"while copying obscure .dat files inside eve settings directory provides for a way to share the same settings between different characters and accounts, this is not the best way both to shortcut configuration and eve configuration as a whole.please, implement export/import of the keyboard shortcuts to/from some external files.it can be in the xml form, as with overview settings, or it can be anything else, but it would be good if it will be human-readable and human-editable in a simple text editor.and the use case is this:after i configured shortcuts on one character i want to export them and then import them back on another character without the need to reset/reconfigure the same keystrokes again."
"simple, easy, and makes sense. especially since you can already export overview settings.ccp should make hotkeys exportable, and i think they also should make the entire cache easier to get at. maybe some enterprising individual could make a free little \"eve-mover\" app that throws all your overview/hotkey/window/bookmark folder settings into a zip file for easy moves to new computers?"
"o7please read the proposal in it's entirety before supporting or rejecting.eve is a complex game; this complexity is what gives it it's appeal. it is not a game for the light hearted. it is not a game for players who put \"safe\" and \"friendly\" above other things. eve is a game of exploration and war. this complexity gives eve something else; a distinctly huge learning curve. this learning curve is higher than any other mmo, let alone video games as a whole, and this can be very difficult for some players to get over.for instance, remapping 1 million sp will give you 500,000 sp to remap into other skills. the rest are lost!why would you want to do this?tutorials only do so much in game that is as deep as eve. while the tutorials are designed to try and give players a good grasp of mechanics, they do little to actually explore the differences between the races and weapon systems. in point of fact, the kind of ships and weapons used by the races is not even mentioned in the character creation dialog. allowing characters to remap their skills one time gives a 6 month buffer for players to explore and learn, figure out which races ships they want to fly and what role they want to pursue. why a -50% hit? that seems a little extreme!this is to prevent abuse of the system. if an experienced player were to start a new character, they could simple use a neural remap to optimize their attributes, then train skills at max speed for 6 months, after which they could remap these sp to slower training skills. this is unacceptable. since even your lowest attribute skills train faster than 50% that of your fastest, the player would be losing training time by remapping the sp than just training the skills. this is too friendly and conforming for eve. this game is about harsh realities and planning. why should you get to remap if you didn't plan out your character right?again, this is a one-time use remap. never again after the one. never. nada. no amount of plex or cash in the world can buy you another one. the system is very rigid as is and is very unfriendly to new players. think back to your start in eve; did you train things that you ended up not using? i know i, as a player, trained all the races to see which i liked. when you train a races ships, you also have to train their weapon system. i think it makes sense to allow players a single chance to remedy their mistakes, once they have a good grasp of the game and know what they want to train. conclusionthis is more than a proposal; i think a healthy discussion would be in order. in past propositions, i have discovered a portion of old-timers here that think this idea is the worst thing to ever curse the interwebs spaceship game. i respect that opinion and understand it's roots, but i disagree. please try and keep discussion amiable and friendly. respond with cultured criticism and provide ideas to make it better. please keep it respectable and flame free!"
"i like it, a chance at redeeming poor training decisions while still spanking you for making them.proposal supported."
"no. skills are never a bad thing to have. anyone can simply choose to train any new skill any time. not supported."
"i like it, i have mining lasers trained to lvl3, i want that 5k sp back. kidding aside, i really do support this. there are a number of those ill conceived skills i trained long ago that were never of any use. i would like to see this option added to all current players, not just new ones. the one time deal thing would remain however. i'm also not opposed to making it a 6 month timer from character creation as long as all current characters have a 1 month grace period in which they also get to use this feature."
"to developers and designers, too it is necessary to drink, eat, buy something. i think that it, is normal and even it is good.portrait replacement, always was way of earnings for ccp.looking at similar ideas, to people from ccp will necessarily come to mind thought that it will stole at them a bread piece.in the second turns they will think, what alternative it will be possible to compensate it.also, it is necessary to understand that server resources - too aren't boundless. 50 thousand \"jpeg\" or \"png\" the avatars changing each five minutes depending on changes of mood of 50 thousand of players, are loaded on the server, are being render there (yes! the avatar is now render on the server, instead of in the client). it not small loading.and we have till now problems and lags in fights where 500 persons and participate more.i understand it all and i consider that it isn't so necessary now. but i all the same will support idea, as it that it would be desirable to see in game, but in more interesting form."
"they could go part way and limit the number of moon mining operations allowed. say 3 or 4 for c1-c4... anyway, i'd like it to get some serious consideration."
"combining some things i've read from other threads.1. make moon mining possible in wh space.2. make it so that pos moon miners are not anchorable in wh space.3. introduce new ore cap ship that can fit a moon miner module(s). something along the lines of an orca.markus"
"tl;dr:* the aim of this proposal is to make the ecm mechanic less random while not changing the relative balance between ecm ships and their targets. it's neither a nerf nor boost, just a change.* sensor strength is multiplied with max number of targets giving a tempest 7*19 = 133 combined sensor strength.* ecm jammers get a higher number than today, around 20 for a t2 module.* each point of jamming from an ecm cancels out one point of sensor strength on the target.* each time more than 19 sensor strength (for a tempest) is removed his max number of targets is reduced by one. if this happens while the tempest had something locked the lock might drop.* if the tempest receives more than 133 points of jamming he's totally locked down.long version:imagine that eve ships have one targeting radar per available target slot. each of these radars have the sensor strength currently displayed in the sensor strength field.example: minmatar tempestmax locked targets (number of targeting radars or ladars in this case): 7sensor strength: 19 (type ladar)combined sensor strength: 7*19 = 133in comes the new ecm mechanic; each ecm module has a certain ecm jamming value; say 20 against their racial opposite and 5 against anything else for a t2 version.now for each ladar ecm applied to our tempest above we remove 20 sensor strength. each time we pass 19 sensor strength we remove one of his max targets.example: two t2 ladar ecm is applied to tempest.40 points of sensor strength is removed, we passed 19 twice, hence two of his max targets is removed and he now has 5 max targets and 17 sensor strength left until the next target slot is removed.if the tempest at this time had something locked he has a 2/7 chance of losing that lock. however given that he still has 5 available slots he can immediately re-lock if he lost the lock.if he had all 7 targets locked he will lose two random locks and will not be able to re-lock unless another lock is dropped first.if the tempest was hit by 7 t2 ladar ecm modules for a total of 20*7 = 140 points of jamming it will have a remaining -7 points of sensor strength meaning it has 0 max targets left. it is now truly jammed with no chance of getting out of it. any more jamming makes no difference what so ever.ecm ships such as falcons and scorpions could (like today) get a bonus towards ecm jamming strength, making a single ecm module on a falcon being able to maybe take out as much as 3 target slots at once.notice how chance is removed from the equation (except for which lock drops)."
"nope. sorry. either adapt or die. /me tends to run his mwd drake right at the falcon pilot while spraying fof missiles.it's a rather quick \"leave or die\" message.you should do the same."
"what do you insinuate? that i fail against ecm ships or fail in ecm ships? this suggestion will not modify the effectiveness of ecm in either direction, all it does is making it more predictable, more in line with other ewar systems.personally i love flying falcons and would not see this as neither a boost nor nerf of them.also what makes you think the falcon doesn't have an mwd of his own and keeps out of range?"
"it's an interesting idea, but there's plenty of situations where still being able to lock one target results in a negligible loss of combat ability. so it still suffers from a binary nature - the difference between being able to lock one target and being able to lock none is too great. in your case, a tempest would require 7 s20 jammers to be locked down - applying 6 would often have very little effect - which is just silly."
"very true, but consider this:each time one of the ecm modules cycle it will remove one of two available target slots (the one itself just let go of, and the previously untouched one). this results in a 50% probability of the tempest losing its current target when the new jam goes through.if the six ecm modules were spread out evenly and the cycle time of each is 20 seconds an ecm module will cycle every 3.3 seconds. typically 50% of those cycles will result in a target loss for the tempest = he will have to re-lock his target every 6.6 seconds. he's not out of the fight, but he sure isn't very effective either."
"few things you need to consider:- you need to find a solution for light ships (cruiser down) which are currently more or less useless with ecm on the field.- you need to be able to shut most targets down completely without using an entire rack. compare to effect of 2-3 damps/td's.(if not then it becomes a massive nerf which is neither needed nor wanted).- you need to account for eccm and what effect it should have in relation to ecm.personally think that the idea of ecm manipulating max targets is the best one that has been brought up so far, been sniffed at a few times in other threads."
"it is only a good idea if your agenda is a complete removal of ecm.if max locked targets is not zero for damage dealers, the jammed ship is free to shoot the primary and the jammer did not accomplish anything.support such as logistics can conveniently operate at full efficiency with 2-3 target slots, and even having only a single slot doesnt render them inoperable."
"edit: oops, posted with alt i can't say this change wouldn't affect users with small amounts of ecm. the cost of removing randomness is less efficiency at smaller numbers and higher at high numbers.but remember that even though not all target slots are jammed, there is still a chance on each cycle for each ecm module to break a random lock. even if the target can re-lock, it will still take him time, and in combination with a locking time jammer it will be even more severe. so just because all slots aren't taken out doesn't mean the ecm is totally ineffective.example; how much different ewar affects a target with 6 target slots:# of....range.....ecmmods..jammer----------------------1........light........light2........medium..light3........heavy.....medium4........overkill...medium5........overkill...heavy6........overkill...totalhelldeathwhile a target range jammer reach its peak at around 2-3 modules, ecm won't reach its peak until 6 modules. but when the target range jammer peaks, the target can still fight at close range, it's not taken out entirely and no amount of target range jamming can change this. however ecm at 6 modules will take the entire target out and that is better than the target range jammer can do. therefore it should be more \"expensive\" to use the ecm.is it more reasonable that a frigate with a single ecm module might get a lucky jam and totally disable an entire battleship for 20 seconds? or that a falcon fails to jam a frigate?"
"first i tell you my experience:when is jamming annoying? in small scale pvpi.e. sabre/falcon. that is quite common to camp in 0.0 and it is very effective. 1 recon, 1 interdictor. now you want to break the camp. well, you can break the camp by taking a ship, which can permatank the sabre and sit on the gate, wait until the falcon misses a jam cycle and drive the sabre off. (usually he calls then his friends) but that's it. there is no way to catch the sabre or falcon. the falcon will jam the tackler and they are gone and no more come out of their ss before you are gone. you will need 3+ fleet members, so the falcon can not jam all of you. when is flying a falcon annoying? when it becomes bigger than small scaleit is too often jam everything or nothing and die first. i lose falcons faster than any other recon or any other ship class at all. it can only jam, nothing else. if you shield tank it, it is bad at jamming, too. if you armor tank it, it aligns too slow. if there is no shield tank, it is paper thin, far worse tank than other recons have. so if there are 2-3 bc on the enemy side, i start already thinking about becoming primary. i will be primary and be the first, who dies, if i do not leave the field before they reach me or i jam them all. sometimes it is even 1 ship too much. once i disconnected after a jump, it took me 10 sec to log back in. the falcon was already killed by a single vaga and the logs showed nothing. gg ccp. so some things can be said for sure:- it is too strong against small ships or single ships- it is too weak, especially the falcon, if there are more than just 2-3 enemies and they get a lockbtw. ecm drones are also sometimes superannoying in 1v1 or 2v2, especially if enemies recall them until they get a cycle. i hate those guys, who pull them out, when they see they lose the fight. somehow they always seem to get the jam and escape. maybe i would take ecm out of the game. if i look at npcs: guristas ew are the most annoying ew. the other npcs ew has also effects, but you do not lose a whole 20 sec per cycle."
"oh look one race that can reliably counter ecm.what do you suggest for the other races?ops suggestion makes sense, but could use some polish."
"no, you're working off the assumption that the tempest would have locked the maximum number of targets possible. in reality, it would have, say, the primary and another locked. taking the maximum number of locks available down to five from seven when you're only locking two targets to start with is basically meaningless - it's unnoticeable. ships are quite capable of operating even with one lockable target, which is why you end up with the current binary effect/no-effect system being unchanged, except that it's a lot harder to actually \"jam\" a target.the current chance-based system is crappy, but this isn't an improvement. and whatever changes you propose, you need to leave the caldari ewar as the most powerful, because ewar is a caldari racial thing. they have a full line of ewar ships, almost equal in stature to the missile and rail lines."
"having two eccm iis running a geddon and still being very nearly permajammed by a single falcon... yeah ecm needs a change. maybe the change should be a debuff like the other ew are. being totally jammed is no fun for anyone."
"currently one can do a neural remap a 2? times then you have to wait a year before you can do it again..if we can change attributes, why cant we change skills?for instance, a industrial pilot presents with 3million skill points in industry but decides one day, that he is tired of industry and wants gunnery..why not give him the option, of once a year- or or once every 6 months, or some sort of cool-down- all ow him to basically take his 3 mill industry sp`s, and allow him to convert them into 3million gunnery skill points.this would mean that said pilot would lose the ability and benefits that came with the 3million industry skill points- to include modules, bonusesbut he would also gain all bonuses and such in the target field- in this case gunnery.i believe the primary skill fields that should be \"allowed for revamping\" should beindustrysciencegunnerymissilesnaturally there would need to be some warnings that doing this revamp, would affect thingsthey could only subtract from one category and add to one category.. so, subtracting 2 million from industry, and 1 million from missiles wouldn't be an option.. like wise, you couldn't add 1.5mill to gunnery and 1.5mill to missiles, add it all to gunnery, or all to missiles.i think it should be accessible to the largest amount of players, but should have very serious \"un recoverable\" \"undo-able\" consequences, with a respectable cool down time (similar to neural remap)there seem to be 3 major \"methods of playing\" gunneryindustry(mining, narcotics, production, research, etc)missileshence i would suggest they be the ones that qualify for the remap."
"i like this idea. not sure that this would actually happen.. +1 for whatever its worth.."
"oh god the stupid it burns ahhh"
"not supported. it is not a new idea, and has already been debated before. in essence, it violates the principle of cause-consequence that is so central to eve - you live with the decisions you make, there is (most of the time) no going back.so no, the skill system is working as intended, and need not be changed."
"one of the things you'll learn about eve is that the choices we make affect our character almost permanently (except with things such as security status). another is that all of the skills are useful, even if not for the primary reason you took them (corporations could always ask you to assist in other ways, such as with mining ops).i've thought a lot about this myself, and was once in support of such a measure. however, i have (during my long career here in eve) come to accept and even enjoy the system, completely unique in the mmo industry.not supported."
"couldn't have said it better myself."
"thank you for your invaluable contribution to this topic."
"i understand your point, however even while what i do today echoes in tommorow, i can still change myself..i can go back to school for something else. a druggie or alcoholic can one day decide to no longer touch drugs/alcohol... sure, the person who spent the past several years drinking non stop may have health problems now, or in several years but...... i do see your point, and im glad you contributed to it, but isnt neural remap a violation of cause -consequence?sure, there are consequence to actions, but you can still change your ways, life is about change. be it the now sober alcoholic, the former pirate who has a +5 sec rating now instead of a -9.9, or the pilot who uses neural remapping to cut x days off a skill plan in eve-mon"
"well, as referenced in previous responses change is a part of life, be it addictions, education, etc.but what if instead of being instantaneous like neural remapping, you could inniate it, but then had to wait 4 days for it to take effect- representing a \"struggle\" much in the same way it can take a while for someone to recover from substance abuse?"
"i can support what this guy said.for the op:/not supported"
"no no no no no nooooo! this is a game breaking idea, even giving remaps more often for plex was shown to drastically change eve for the worst. not supported! -1"
"this argument is all over the place. generally speaking, threads break down to \"omgz i liek!\" and \"nononononononononoicanthearyou!!!gamebreakin!!!!\" personally, i think this should be allowed one single time to allow new players who have no flying **** what they are training to get a break. for instance, when i first started i trained all the races to bs level to see which i liked. turns out i'm a matar and amarr fan. now i've got a few million sp wasted in hybrids, gallente, and caldari.if they allowed a skill change, a single time 6 months after your character was born, i wouldn't mind. but, i don't think it should be a yearly occurrence unless you want to penalize the sp return by at least 70%."
"i do like this, and would support it if it was suggested as a separate proposal."
"this is what i understood the op was trying to say... it should be an option, but it should have rather stringent rules..so then the requirements to do it would behas to be after atleast 6months from the date your charecter was born, and can only be done once.."
"see no reason not to have this"
"bump"
"good point you could be shot at in the structure and all rats would show up and be targetable even if you could not \"see\" them.looks like this would be very complex.maybe you have to travel through said structure to get in range of loot object, or even an ecceleration gate?so you need to pass into the wreck with a smaller ship and find your way to the container to loot it and then back out? something that could not be tractored.still options but a full mission in one is looking a bit hard. dratany other idea's on how they could make space more intresting and flet you fly into and through things?"
"ok so theres a lot of people who have found that even with elite command centers you really cant make robotics on plasma planets any more......that said i believe the problem is not with the new setup its with some of the restrictions on it. to that end i propose that instead of having it so when you \"scan\" for heavy metals it drops a heavy metal drill, then when you click noble metals it drops a noble metal drill. that way a single command station can extract multiple p0 materials. each material would have to be routed"
"please go back to features and ideas"
"umm... have you even tried the new pi system yet?"
"either your pi skills are all at 1, or you need to watch your clock more closely as you work.--also, since the current pi system is the only way of obtaining the materials you get from it, it isn't and can't be broken. if it's difficult to work with or frustrating in some way, then the people more willing to work through it will reap greater rewards. if the total yield from all players is decreased, then prices of stuff requiring those materials will go up."
"the new system really really really sucks. what was wrong with old one? ever hear the expression \" if it's not broke don't fix it\"?? two thumbs down. extremis horribilis is an understatement. omg what were they thinking comes to mind."
"0_osome of these responses make me wonder if the posters actually tried the new pi system.i've found that yield is up, overall.sure, the ecu power requirements are high - all this limits is the number of simultaneous materials we can pull from a single world.this in turn limits jack-of-all-trading, and forces either multi-worlding, or - and hold onto your implants here - interacting with other pilots.i'd slide off my seat for a decent pi market - everything sell-order is at a huge markup, and every buy order at a pathetic amount.also: you can now set your extraction times to cover the exact time you sleep, go out, or go to work. this is awesome.sure, it makes it less fine-tuned (precise maths + 23 hour cycle = profit), but it's a damn sight easier on the ol nervous system as a result.off-topic a wee - anyone found themselves returning to the old pre-skill-queue waking up at obscene hours to check eve patterns?"
"i like the new system.--> not supported"
"i am realy wondering how you managed to spend 20-30 minutes on the new system. it is only one click per planet every day + hauling."
"with the new system, it takes 20 minutes to figure out how the new system works and to setup a single colony after figuring it out. after that, it will only take not even 5-7 minutes to setup an additional colony after that since you will already know what to do then. after all the colonies are setup (up to the limit of your planetary consolidation skill level), it only take no more than 1 minute to restart each colony.i have two accounts with four characters doing pi and i notice the benefits of the new system in terms of time spent restarting all the colonies and yields gained. so far, i'm loving it. as you can see, the long setup of the colonies for novices pays for itself in a very short time."
"no, same logic = remove cans people abuse them, remove bubbles people abuse them, people abuse lots of mechanics to gain advantage, that are all part of game.+ lots of stupid in this thread.- negative isk, = free isk = rmt farmers dreams.- min order = lots of legit uses."
"good idea. it fights scams without harming the legit."
"ey chaps,i am sure this topic has been opened at some stage, but i have a question here. why are we not allowed to train skills on more than one char on the same account at the same time. what is the use of the 2 extra character slots then? eve is about training skills, and if you dont, you get left behind. so i want to make a new character, to explore the other races and professions, but now i cant train on my main, cause i need to train my alts. hence, no alts get made, cause basicly, what is the use?can we not have a look at this? and maybe open the opportunity to do so? or should i now add another account to my already 2 accounts?"
"you can use your 2 extra slots for alts which need no further training. :)"
"while i do not have the figures at hand, i do not think it is an unfair estimate to say that a significant part of the eve \"player base\" (i.e. active accounts) are actually alts. if this was implemented, it would more or less instantly (after transfers, of course) kill off almost 2/3 of said accounts, resulting in much less profit for ccp. hence, it will most likely never happen."
"also, i have all three slots used on both of my accounts - so your argument that no one ever does that sort of falls flat. the point is, eve is about choices, and the consequences of those choices. i needed an occasional alt, so i paused my training on my main and trained the alt for the purpose i needed her for.trust me, it's not the end of the world. the skill points race you're involved in is only against yourself."
"i want to bring up (again) something that would be an extremely simple fix, but crucial in its implications.the single most devastating thing that can happen to any capsuleer in eve is, without much debate, to be podded in an outdated med clone. yet, although this is so, we still are getting no warnings whenever we forget to update our clones (i have never forgotten myself, and i agree it would take carelesness and clumsiness to do so). yet, we get warnings when we are not training skills, we get warnings when we try to enter lowsec, warnings when we try to aggress someone else in hisec, warnings when we try to make a contract.if we get warnings for these things, how come we dont get a warning when trying to undock without updating our med clones? why doesnt the character sheet flash as when we are not training skills? why is everything left to the player in this crucial case, when such ample warning are given in other, and generally much less damaging ones?i suggest that an easy feature is implemented, in the spirit of the above, to let players know their medclones are outdated. anything will do (some examples mentioned above), but the warning has to be there."
"f-it do away with all the astroid belts and make them all probe out locations."
"that, i can support.to the op: congrats on having exhumers skill to level 4. got you beat. i have exhumers level 5 and i can operate an orca.anyways, i guess we're just going to be in an endless point-counter-point debate between you can me about this as both of us seem to have made up our minds. to finish this off, i understand what your point it. my point is to ensure that the miners feel active and productive while they mine the rocks. so far, i regularly check my colonies while i mine so that i can avoid the boredom."
"yes, if you place no value on invested person-hours.years before i was in merch, i used to be in an empire mining corp, and we would mount full wing hulk ops and strip belts dry in short order. what i realize now is that this was a remarkable waste of time and effort.ccp likes to talk about income sources as being point or diffuse, active or passive. throughout the history of eve, the point passive sources of income have always been the most lucrative because they require the least maintenance.what the op is trying to water down the active nature of mining. which i endorse; if i could sit at a pos shield and have fighter-miners go fetch me ore from several au's away, i'd be stupid not to."
"i have to disagree. i think that your proposal is too much like pi because it is a passive isk generation. a good fix for mining would be one that makes it more interactive, such that macroers have difficulty running a good business while players willing to invest the time are rewarded best.also, the eve economy doesn't rely on mining. it's a major part of the total ore income in eve, but quite likely less than half of the total. a lot of ore comes from reprocessed modules also."
"i can see what you mean, but no ..it might be ok for low-null space, but definently not empire, and if it was ever thought of, it should be severely limited.like 1 pr. char limited and max 5 drones.and definently destroyable.i would much rather see a end to macro bots and similar than a end to mining industry as it would become if you had your way.definently not supported .. ever .."
"just make that damm under attack can't gather any ore and everything is fine.miner no longer needs to mine, only to defend his mining operation."
"just helping keep things alive"
"so you're going to fire what is effectively a large tactical nuke from.. what? ..a stealth bomber? and what do you plan on collecting up the 'moon goo' with? bring along a buddy in a blokade runner; that deep into nc sovereign territory? you are talking about disrupting powerblocks, and making a profit from it. how much profit do you think you'll net in this fancy little endeavour? you just nuked the surface of the moon, turned the greater majority of it into dust and glass; then happened along, to pick up whatever little bit's blew out into orbit. how much time is that going to take? chunks of rock expeled from the planet surface; floating all through space, and orbiting at some 2-3000 m/s? might as well fly your ship into a blob; of titanium sabot flinging cruisers.silly notion, and poorly thought out. there are only a few moons which are truly profitable; turning 128 billion isk a month in surplus revenues. most everyone else, is struggling just to maintan there profit margin; while they manage their pos', and try to keep it fueled and functional. sure some of them profit a great deal; but not nearly like that. maybe 20 billion isk, for a null pos near highsec; in a protected area of alliance territory, with bud's to back you up. ..until some alliance manages to slip in; and destroy's all your pos', while the alliance that guards you, is off fighting somewhere else.now you want to jump in and throw a wrench in the gears, for everyone? you don't think a new mechanic like this will be abused; or that it won't prove the undoing of the little guys, who don't have alliance protection? you thought it was hard getting through null unmolested before.. what do you think will happen after this? nowhere outside empire will be safe. every ship that enters territory outside of empire, will be chased and shot down; and you won't have a chance to fire your little probes. but the alliances will."
"maybe i wasn't clear enough on a few points.in 0.7, concord may take a moment to appear, but the attacker will still lose their ship every time. you can't warp out as soon as you perform an illegal attack, regardless of how long it takes concord to start blowing your ship to pieces. it's just more time to finish the kill than 0.5 currently grants.in 0.6, just because escape is theoretically possible does not mean ganking will be commonplace. if concord had, say, +5 warp scramble to a distance of 30km, and ridiculous dps near the current highsec values, the only possible way to escape would be in a fast frigate that was lucky enough not to be struck, or in a shield buffer-tanked battleship with 5 warp core stabilizers. the frigate can't do a lot of damage before concord shows up and forces it to run away; and the battleship has to haul its sluggish self to point-blank range before it can fire its weapons, giving the player time to see what's happening and escape.in 0.5, there would be a wider range of ships that could survive an attack, but they would still be limited in gank potential from having to fit either warp stabilizers or a lot of speed. so in my proposal, 0.5 might have a fair amount of ganking. the rest of highsec would be fairly safe. freighters would also be pretty safe because avoiding concord is all about not waiting around. but if you plan to take a freighter loaded with expensive goodies into 0.5 or 0.6, it might be reasonable to bring some escort just to be on the safe side. even as it is, freighters can and do get ganked in highsec.and lastly, having concord ships with rat-value stats doesn't necessarily mean they won't be a threat. if a 0.4 security system had 3-4 battleships at any given time in an asteroid belt with some other ships for variety, perhaps with warp scramble; and would warp more in to fend off an attack, then you have to be prepared to take on them and the player at the same time. it's best to be in a fleet with multiple buddies to do that, or use a carrier. a player can protect themselves by only flying in decent combat ships. ganking will also be less common since you can't just fly by in your stealth bomber, pop someone, and run off. any time ganking takes preparation, lazy players won't do it."
"i don't think it would ruin your profession. you'd just have to fly with buddies, like have a tackler and a ship or two to fend off concord while you conduct business. you'd also have to adapt your profession to a new environment. but with a lot more players in lowsec, you should at least have as much room for your piracy as you have now. you might get more, or it might be offset by more people taking up your profession. that could also have the effect of increasing the size of your corporation/alliance and thus make it easier to group up with fellow pirates."
"industrialists are vital to the economy.1.0-0.8 is not enough space of industrialists.industrialist's main ships have no tank or defense capabilities to speak of.industrialists rarely have many sp in combat skills so they can't just \"refit for combat\" as they can't fit the mods, nor will their ships let them anyways.not supported and you should be ashamed of yourself."
"you obviously didn't read what i put very carefully, and don't seem to understand eve industry very well either. there's so much room out there that industrialists don't need as much protection as they have to thrive. in most high sec systems, the suicide ganking rates are extremely low, to the point of virtually never happening unless someone does something just stupid enough at the exact right time. anything beyond that is almost always directed at specific individuals for specific reasons.industrialists could definitely thrive in the 0.6 and 0.5 which i described, and i believe plenty are shrewd enough to find even 0.4 or 0.3 to be lucrative beyond the losses incurred. so no, the industry haven wouldn't be confined to 0.8, in fact it would be expanded perhaps as far out as 0.3. but it would also be somewhat separated, as the weaker and/or lazier industrialists will reside in higher security systems and and try to avoid lower sec most of the time.the pirates at the gank spot between jita and dodixie would lose a large amount of their income, as pilots would find it quite easy to simply fly around that system. other than that, the only people who will lose out are those who aren't willing to learn a slightly different system, or are too lazy to work or think for their income but don't believe it's fair to give up their easy isk in 0.6 and 0.5."
"ok with the release of the latest patch you know have a single station that sends out drills to mine what ever you want only problem is know you have an insane amount of materials coming down one link and even the small amount require to fill 5 processors requires multiple upgrades.hence i suggest that all links can transfer any amount of materials , it was a ok mechanic for balancing pi phase one but its just as old as the extractors sitting on my lava world"
"a senseful opinion. agreed"
"best post"
"i believe the alteration is an intended consequence.the old way was that you could have 1 extractor per each resource on a planet and manage that every 30 minutes for an evening, stocking up all required resources and having your t1 and t2 factories producing 100% of the time, then off-shoring the t2 products to a planet with spare cpu/power for t3 production. this new way means that you are limitted to the facilities you can use, and thus must use them wisely. if you want to extract every resource from a planet, at maximum efficiency, you won't be doing much production past t1. however, by focusing on 2 or 3 resources per planet, you get those 20% or more resources per cycle, while producing t2 products. however, ultimately you you have to transfer goods around to do the higher end production (at least moreso than before).people simply need to re-learn how to manage the planet production, because you have much more control over your raw income rate now than you did before, which means you can essentially be more efficient with 1 or 2 heads where you needed 4 or so before. in my experience, i had to drop a couple resource extractors from my planets, but i found the increased rate from the other materials more than made up for it, i simply need an alt or a partner to produce the type of resources i no longer make for myself. which is fine, because it was way too easy before. an alternate method is to put the ecu in between two resources, and move the heads around to get both resources as needed, because its possible to get surplus raw materials now."
"cov ops hauler, nuff said and you can haul to your hearts content. provided you survive the undock point. oh and also....no."
"heya, i'm as exited as the next person about the new avatar pics, but but but ...could we please get someone or a group of someones to check the avatars being made, cause some of them are really really wrong.the reason for a avatar (as i see it) is to make the person identifyable for when eventual release of walking in stations, and seriously, some avatars that i have seen, many by pic-links in ingame channels, are downright 2 second slapped together weird angled misfits, some are way to dark, some found a way to have a hoodie cover half or more of face .. i know you say there will be options for editing them when new stuff comes along, but thats not my point.my point is that i really hope that someone in ccp figures out to make a verification program to say ok to decent avatars and redo to those that just make weird, ugly and downright wrong avatars./end rant .. hopefully others agree .."
"came to thread thinking you would complain about your ability to get good characters out of the new creator...people are making bad chars? thats their right, they will use all the latitude of adjustments that ccp enables. and personally i think it is still too limiting, but mostly on the number of art assets."
"if thine eye offend thee, pluck it out."
"nope, i didnt make it up. you argued with a csm delegate in the initial spoongate thread and one does not have to go far to see you arguing with yet another csm delegate, trebor daehdoow, who was also present at the non-event. take a look at you arguing with trebor in post 685 of this thread in reference to his post 683 of this thread. you still refuse to accept the incident as perceived by the people who experienced it. you continue to insist upon your fantasy version.do try harder, zero. your current attempts are doing too much to make you look the fool and leaving me with little more to do than smile and wave you on to your perpetual train crash.-windjammer"
"oh not this nonsense again. first of all, it should be apparent to you that im not a particularly friendly or even nice person. second, ankhs support base was not exclusively the pve community although some of the pve community did support her. for instance ankh was a noted advocate and participant in factional warfare (fw). in point of fact, she was the one who gave the fw presentation to ccp and was considered to have done a nice job even by people who didnt particularly like her. factional warfare was intended to be pvp light and a way to get more people involved with pvp and hopefully go in for the harder core types of pvp once they saw their hair wasnt going to fall out from engaging in pvp. so in a very real sense ankh supported pvp.far from wanting to eliminate anything, she was an advocate for balanced play. in other words, she didnt want to see either pvp, pve or bear activity eliminated in any sec of the game. she strove to make these things balanced and fair to each of the concerned parties. that she advocated some things the pure pew pew pvp community disliked is undeniable, but that does not indicate she wished to eliminate pvp anywhere in the game.what really lit her fuse, though, was ccps determination to devote resources to developing new content at the expense of fixing existing content. since this is a universal complaint amongst the eve community she can hardly be faulted for it and should be thanked for it by all eve participants regardless of their particular choice of activity.people who want to see eve as a friendly place. ok, color me confused and in need of clarification by what you mean. in my experience there are very few people in eve who want eve to be a friendly place and those people are demonstrably out of touch with the situation around themselves. re-educated they make fine additions to eveor they are persuaded to leave eve.im not sure if you want to blow my imaginary video game spaceship up or if youre threatening real life physical contest. either way, im half puzzled and half amused. okay, im more amused than puzzled, but its a close contestwell..not that close, but in the same neighborhood.-windjammer"
"again? almost as if you participated in the campaign... go figure.post with your main.hrm... do we believe you when you tell us what ank really thought about pvp, or ank when she told us what she really thought about pvp? hard to make that call. ank campaign talking point #7. post with your main. again, who to believe? your claims about what ank thought, or ank's claims about what ank thought. truly, it is hard to choose."
"windjammer's description of ank's position is right on the money, and the best yet written on this subject. if some of her statements were clumsy or overheated at times (who amongst us cannot say the same), her policy focus in eve was balance and finishing content. now contrast that with ildryn's moral panic over the 'end of pvp'. ank's desire to fix the bounty system, or set up a workable player police system, or end insurance payments for suicide gankers are cases in point. one can legitimately argue the merits of implementing any of these, but to bring them up is hardly the same thing as advocating the end of pvp. as for ildryn's obvious threat toward windjammer, i do not find it amusing, as it is personally directed. i do not care what one's position on eve policy may be, this goes over the line. so assuming it to be genuine, i've reported the threat to ccp, and strongly suggested that disciplinary action be taken. whether ccp will or not, i cannot say. even so the incident is now formally on record. cheers, delilah"
"the above account is inaccurate in a subtle, but very crucial way. i am hampered in replying because to give the details might cause pain to an innocent third party, but i will say this: just before eva threw the spoon, i threw a :rolleyes: \"wtf?\" across the room.some 35 years of experience online have taught me that one should never judge a person's rl persona by their forum persona, especially if that forum persona is extreme. and if, for example, her forum persona was a conscious attempt to scam votes, all i can say is - this is eve, not hello kitty online.however, it is more likely that she simply had a tendency to over-react to what she perceived as personal attacks. in this i can sympathize, as i suffered from the same tendency when i was her age.in any case, i've said my piece on the subject."
"itt: alt nobodies white knight ineptly for a girl in the hope that she'll let them touch her boobies."
"well, fair enough, but i don't think that substantially changes the interpretation of events. even if someone was being rude, then all that means is that two people were behaving badly. yes, harsh gritty and all that. but pretending to be unable to distinguish between fiction and reality is still odd. and if it was all a troll to get votes, it's a damn strange one. ehhhh... \"you're an idiot and your mommy hates you!\" might be a strong reaction to an individual person. \"you and everybody who plays the game like you is a psychopath in real life and you're all scum!\" is on a different level, entirely. \"and ank's own description of her own position should be ignored, because it doesn't fit with the position i'm trying to sell.\"thank you for playing, your parting gift will be a lovely halibut."
"i would love to see her try to make something of this. \"judge, these people on this internet spaceship game i play are calling me crazy and now i can't get a job. yes, i did get removed from an elected advisory position on a council in said internet spaceship game due to a breach of an nda with an international game developer, but i'm really here because these people are saying i'm crazy! yes, i did throw a spoon during a meeting, and yes, i think people should be penalized in real life for the behavior of their internet spaceship characters. no, technically i didn't work for this video game developer, even though i stated i did in my cv under employment history. you see judge, the important thing is, these people are saying bad things about me... they're the reason i can't get a job now.\"throwing any object in any business meeting is unacceptable. the csm is unique in that it is made up of real life people taken from a online game for a business purpose. they aren't there to make friends, they are there for a business purpose, period! nobody throws something at anyone during a business meeting; if you have an issue with someone disrupting a meeting you either ask them to stop or ask them to step out of the room. ank's behavior is indicative of someone who is not in touch with reality and who cannot properly process the way the world around them works. this is someone who claimed on her resume that she \"worked\" for ccp. she had a skewed perception of reality, one where real life consequences should be bestowed up someone based on their behavior in an online game. i honestly can't believe any logical person could defend her behavior."
"nope. it is your intentional misrepresentations that we are ignoring. thank you, but you can keep the halibut. cheers, delilah"
"aaaaaand you're back to that trolling pattern. seriously, you're not fooling anybody. realty is an assault on ank, the facts are out to get her, the truth is a smear. do you realize how that sounds to someone who's not trolling for ank? ank's own words, quoted verbatim, are \"intentional misrepresentations\" of... ank's own words. seriously, who do you expect to fool with such an obvious lie? i'm honestly curious, what do you hope to gain by your trolling?"
"finn, you might find the follow definitions drawn from dictionary.com and elsewhere both helpful to and descriptive of your writing. i think you'll also find the narrative on synonyms especially familiar. enjoy. misrepresent |<U+02CC>m<U+026A>sr<U+025B>pr<U+026A>'z<U+025B>nt|verb [ trans. ]give a false or misleading account of the nature of : you are misrepresenting the views of the government.derivativesmisrepresentation nounmisrepresentative adjectivemisrepresentverbyou are misrepresenting the views of the government: give a false account, misreport, misquote, quote/take out of context, misinterpret, put a spin on, skew, warp, falsify, distort, misstate, exaggerate.misrepresent - 4 dictionary resultsmis<U+FFFD>rep<U+FFFD>re<U+FFFD>sent   [mis-rep-ri-zent] show ipaverb (used with object)1.to represent incorrectly, improperly, or falsely.2.to represent in an unsatisfactory manner.origin: 164050; mis-1 + representrelated formsmis<U+FFFD>rep<U+FFFD>re<U+FFFD>sen<U+FFFD>ta<U+FFFD>tion, nounmis<U+FFFD>rep<U+FFFD>re<U+FFFD>sen<U+FFFD>ta<U+FFFD>tive, adjectivemis<U+FFFD>rep<U+FFFD>re<U+FFFD>sent<U+FFFD>er, nounpre<U+FFFD>mis<U+FFFD>rep<U+FFFD>re<U+FFFD>sent, verb (used with object)pre<U+FFFD>mis<U+FFFD>rep<U+FFFD>re<U+FFFD>sen<U+FFFD>ta<U+FFFD>tion, nounsynonyms misrepresent, distort, falsify, belie share the sense of presenting information in a way that does not accord with the truth. misrepresent usually involves a deliberate intention to deceive, either for profit or advantage: the dealer misrepresented the condition of the car. distort implies a purposeful twisting or emphasizing of certain statements so as to produce an inaccurate or misleading impresssion: cleverly distorting the facts to create an impression of his own innocence. falsify suggests a tampering with or alteration of facts, records, or documents, especially with the intent to cheat or deceive: he falsified the birth records to conceal his age. belie means to create an impression that is inconsistent with the facts, or that contradicts other evidence but it does not usually suggest intent to deceive: her casual, relaxed manner belies her insecurity."
"... wowanks's own words still an \"intentional misrepresentation\" of ank's own words, plus bonus dictionary vomit."
"the creator is hands down the best morphing creator i've ever seen. it's easy to use and understand. that said there is some bad points.1) total lack of \"head gear\" why is it some races can have glasses and others can't! why are there no \"hats\", crowns, and really simple items like nose rings, ear rings, piercings etc.2) facial structure limited to race???!?!?? are you kidding me. take a look at my picture. that nose is the smallest i could make it. yet other races can pretty much elimination the nose down to a little tiny button.3) clothing i'm not too concerned about, can't expect to have a full wardrobe of stuff but there is a wardrobe.. why is some races able to have a leather looking black jacket. yet others can't. these is something i consider a poor oversight. the end result is everyone from that race is walking around in next to identical clothing. just open up the clothing for everyone.. if want to wear a male shirt i should be able to.. if i want to put minmatar pants i can.the amarrian female was royally screwed because the bone structure is very \"male\" structures. deeper inset smaller eyes, larger nose and bridge. it's like they accentually put a male nose structure on it. the second part is the horrible horrible clothing choices for an amarrian... the \"outer\" and \"bottoms\" specialty clothing options are ugly!believe it not, my character looked damn good without pants on but had the long amarrian outer coat on. looked like a dress. you couldn't accept that though because you had to have pants!! which is stupid! because the \"outer\" top is long enough the \"skirt\" section comes down to just above the knees.. there is no need to have pants on, and it's not like you'll be running around half naked, the dress did a fine job covering up the crutch area..shoes.. why must you have shoes.. the \"ugly baggy\" pants the amarrian female has looked beyond ******ation when you put any shoes on.. it looked 10000% better with no shoes.the fixes are simple and can allow a much more dynamic creation platform.1) allow all characters access to all facial and bones structures. i don't want to look like a bobble head because my body bone structure is thin, yet my head is like a man head. give everyone complete access to all body and face bone structures, then allow you to manipulate the bones/muscles within their limitations.2) give everyone every bit of clothing, accessories, makeup, hair, eyebrows. there is no reason why i can't as an amarrian have glasses..it shouldn't be limited in any way, save yourself the time and effort ccp. open up the clothing, facial and body structures so anyone any race any bloodline can use them. that way when you want to try and suck $15 out of people in six months you only need to develop/release a few new added clothing and structures instead of 1 or 2 for each race.."
"there is but you must not have it.. there is an amarrian female skin tone that i call :totally void of sunlight: lolin fact, most of the skin tones the amarrian's have are \"pale\" apart from the one i chose which kind of \"orange\" like a bad beach spray on tan... if amarrs didn't have turd colored clothing, they could have an awesome emo character, black hair, pale white pasty skin coloring, dark make-up. too bad the clothing options are completely devoid of anything black..on the upside. you can create an incredible albino with amarr lol"
"try a khanid male then which falls under \"greater amarr\" as well. takes quite some effort to not look like some future clone of genghis khan. and you end up with something like adolf hiller (misspelled on purpose) with a nice tan, yay... i think the majority of players will agree that the cc in itself is a really nice addition to the game, just some of its options need a fair bit of tweaking still. sadly we lack a single, central place to pool all the feedback from the playerbase on it."
"extrapolating it out to low sec would change the dynamic too much, i think, but otherwise i like the idea of having to pay a fee to concord for protection within high sec. it defies realism that concord would do as good a job as they do without any incentive to do so. real life cops who get paid the same whether they do a good job or not certainly act nothing like concord."
"now it isn't possible to make new snapshots with different view on an avatar for a webpage. that should be possible!"
"i support idea, changes of warp graphic effect that it looked also as well as in an incursion trailer.about remaining - very much it is not assured."
"support."
"whatever the end result, you need1. self-limiting rewards. total capacity: \"k\", distributed by various means. if only one guy is doing plexing everywhere then he's going to get a ton of isk or lp every day. this activity will be seen as a great way to make some easy isk. as the number of plexers increases, the rewards \"k\" will be split among many more people and it'll likely balance out to whatever other forms of income are available. 2. conflict. to be rewarded you must complete the plexing mission, and to maximize the reward you need to maximize your rewards and minimize your opponent's rewards.vp to lp concept should have been implemented years ago. whatever is used for vp should be used for this figure of merit. in this case if there are 1000 poeople piled into a plex, then the vp awarded should be 1000*baseline vp. the reason is that those same 1000 people could have been running 1000 missions instead. the total distributed will still be a function of total vp awarded so whether 1000 guys do one plex, one guy does one plex, or 1000 guys do 1000 plexes, the total payout is the same."
"why do you think it should be self limiting?i agree with the conflict idea. im not sure how to implement it though. perhaps they could put more fw exclusive items that are available to all militias. that way basic econmics would encourage you to keep your competitors from getting lop. perhaps you would get some sort of small lp bonus if any ships blow up in the taking of the plex. it couldnt be too big because people would exploit it by blowing up alts in rookie ships but if the reward were not that much larger it woudlnt be worth it.here are some more thoughts on rewards:if the new plexing mechanic works at all like i think it would there will be a lot more exploding ships in fw. a *lot* more. everyone will know where you are doing these so there will be many more fights. if it didnt pay anything all the pilots would be bankrupt.im thinking the value that you get from the plex should be enough on average to cover say 2/3 of your losses for t2 fit t1 hulls.(after insurance and with t1 rigs) so lets say a t2 fit frigate costs 6 mill a t2 fit cruiser cost 25 mill a t2 fit bc costs 35 mill. (just throwing some numbers out there.)lets assume you get about 2.5k isk per lp. and lets assume that on average you will finish the equivalent of 2 plexes solo before getting blown up. or if you travel with 2 pilots you will finish 4 but the lp would be divided equally so its the same. the thing is the bigger the group you travel with the more you will likely finish before getting blown up but you will also be dividing your rewards more ways. if you can beat the odds and get 3 plexes in before you die you paid for your ship if you can beat the odds and get more than that then you are actually profiting. not as much as running missions but youre pvping! so lets say a minor defensive plex would pay 600 lp a minor offensive would pay 850 lp. offensive pay a bit more because the defensive plexes are basically in your back yard and offensive may require some travel. of course, some pilots may start to base deep in enemy territory which spreads things out and is, in general, good.medium plexes would pay about 2500 lp for a defensive and 3500 lp for an offensive etc.again the numbers i propose are pretty rough if they are wrong we can adjust it. (and no i didnt use a calculator so its likely not exactly 2/3s)ccp should make plenty of plexes available in allot of systems when there are more people online and fewer available more spread out when fewer people are online. otherwise timezones where there are few people online will simply cap plexes with much less fighting. all of this would need to be tweaked over time."
"the problem with a direct lp payout without a cap on total resources(unfortunately) is that one set of alts will run plexes risk free and the other set of alts will run plexes risk free - no conflict. fighting over limited resources (hopefully) means that there will be gangs going around trying to hunt those plexers. how these gangs that hunt plexers get paid... i don't know, but i bet there could be some sort of gentlemen's agreement with the guys who actually run the plexes."
"i'm thinking i may not understand fully what you are saying here. but i to dont want this to turn into some sort of new way to get isk without pvp. however, it seems to me that with the limited direct payout described there would still be a lot of conflict. consider these points: 1) because the other militia knows exactly where you are plexing as soon as you enter the plex you will almost certainly get company. you will probably find there are people doing plexes within 1 or 2 jumps of you. wouldnt you go check it out if you were roaming?2) as long as plexing pays much less than fw missions and high sec missions people will not plex primarily as a means of income. if you just want to carebear you would still be *much* better off doing fw missions. consider how many lp you can make per hour doing fw missions. whatever that may be.now consider how many lp you will get plexing. even if no one responded to the calls the plex timers take long enough that you would be much better off isk wise running fw missions. considering a minor plex timer runs 10 minutes. so with *ideal* circumstances where you 1)never get chased out, or blown up, 2) you are able to do it solo, and 3)there is 0 travel time you could only do 6 in an hour. so 6 x750 lp = 4,500 lp/hour. for medium plexes there is a 15 minute timer so again assuming the same completely unrealistic ideal conditions you could only run 4 per hour yielding 14,000 lp per hour. even if you have multiple accounts you of course should then be able to multiply the amount of isk you make by running fw missions as well so thats a wash. but even if it doesnt scale exactly the same the lp gains from plexing even given unrealistic conditions are not even coming close to missioning. if you want to fight rats and run from pvp you still have the fw missions. that will still be the much better way to make isk. this lp for plexing will just be an attempt to help defray the substantial losses of ships pilots who fight for occupancy will no doubt incur. these changes to occupancy plexing will make it a way to get constant, good quality, small scale pvp without getting blobbed. something ccp has never been able to do in any other setting. i am convinced that with these changes fw plexing would be a *huge* draw for pvpers and there would be more than enough conflict."
"no please.i'd rather pay more in monthly fee than have microtransactions.let things cost isk instead. you can already buy isk with money through the plex system if you don't have enough isk."
"no!cosmetics are pretty important part of any game(ccp has spend alot of effort to update eve graphics overtime) and for pricey sub fee, i feel that i should be getting best possible eve experience that devs can offer.im not going to pay both, sub fee and microtransactions and if micros are idroduced to the game and i want that content, but dont get it for sub fee, i'm not going to pay either sub fee nor microtransactions."
"no.isk? yes."
"i'm not ashamed to say that i have sold a few plex to get the isk i can't get due to limited play-time.use isk, this microtransactions thing stinks.no."
"yes please. need some bigger fonts please."
"supported for my vherokior alt (im fine with my intaki female tbh)"
"signed"
"i got transferred in one piece (miss my caldari mike & doohickeys tho).verh happy with the new chargen, but i understand that the other bloodlines might not. (they got screwed royally, where we just lost the black-hair option )so i support more options if not necessarily a bloodline change. (unless everyone converts to caldari! )"
"i'm against it."
"1.0"
"1.0"
"well, the message was delivered, but still please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"happy to see csm suport for this, i hope your colleagues will also speak up publicly here."
"its been too long"
"still waiting since 2 years for ccp to do something after they removed blaster pvp with web/scram/speed/agility change."
"either fix gallente or give their space to sansha. in their current incarnation, the identity of the gallente is a bastard race. they'll try to fit anything but rails or blasters to their hulls."
"cross training to mini can fly zealot but to cheap to buy zealot.give me a reason to finnish training gallente gun boats."
"yarr!!!"
"while on the topic, why not give black ops a bonus to cap and shield regen while cloaked?"
"don't fix what's not broken not supported, sorry"
"but it is broken."
"sounds like a great idea, adds more risks for dropping caps on people."
"this is good idea."
"no it's not. trying to fix capital issues by braking cloaking devices is something like a rectal surgery on the eye. fyi capital ships can refit near each other, and they can cap transfer to each other, no cap pilots will be affected by this, xpt a lonely jackie chan on a route from chribba meeting point to his home system. did you noticed a lot of cloaking devices in a capital kill mails?"
"i do not support your proposal.you have neglected to explain why non-capital ships should also be affected by this change.if you simply edit your proposal to be exclusive to capital ships, i shall approve. or, please add an explanation as to why subcap ships should also be affected by this change."
"this change does nothing overly negative to users of non covert cloaking devices that aren't in capital ships.completely irrelevant.completely irrelevant.bull.and being able to catch jackie chan is bad? are you familiar with the term 'population control'?why would there be any? the entire point of this is that cloaking makes it hard to kill them."
"if this gets implemented, i predict a high sec filled with caps due to :ccp:"
"should be fixed asap. it's a wonder that it is not fixed yet after x years.not only does it prevent warping to cyno but no one can kill and loot the cynoship. :sadface:"
"+1. like in perpetuum online, which, it is possible is cloned from eve engine."
"yeh i fly a legion and tengu, and the legion could definatly use an improvementthat would defintly worklow: 5-7medium: 2-4high: 5-7"
"makes perfect sense."
"gallente cant counter range, due to them over nerfing remote sensor dampeners and rails being crap. not due to the speed difference.i would say cutting your ehp by between 20k(2 lse's and shield rigs fit) and 30k(agility rigs) is a fairly large sacrifice to gain the speed and range to use autocannons properly, not to mention going from having three utility mids to just the one is a fairly large sacrifice. in your theoretical eft/fight, yes the minmatar has selectable damage types but only if he knows what he is facing and changes in warp, you start the same fight with emp loaded, you lose 10s of dps to change. pvp isnt always mutual and you dont always get the drop on people. also well done for posting 'a look my can gets <--------> this much dps' eft high damage set up, without thinking about the fact that hail has a max effective range of 4km(ish) and ****ty tracking.with that tracking disruptor, you knock the harbinger range down to 12km of which 10km is still optimal.as you seem to want to play this out in eft, what happens when the harbinger launches medium ecm drones and you get jammed 40% of the time, what happens if the harbinger isnt the standard 1600mm plate fit and can keep you outside of scram range.edit. changed the wall'o'text"
"the problem is, you're talking about armor tanking ships which you want to use for dps; and amaar consistently gets the win, with all those mid slots, and a higher armor base.look at the harbinger, and the myrmi; two--more comparable--ships. harbi has a faster base speed, more armor base, a more even spread of resistances; it's actually faster than the myrmi by 5 m/s, drops sig by 35 m, and has a better scan res. and that's just the surface; with no skills whatsoever.harbi also gets a 5% bonus to laser damage, and 10% reduction to laser capacitor need per level; compared to myrmi with 10% bonus drone hp damage, and 7.5% bonus armor repair amount. then compare the harbi's ability to fit 7 lasers, with one high slot to spare; and the myrmi's limit of 6 hybrids with no high slots to spare, though it does get the extra mid slot. the myrmi becomes a mission ship, where it can fight in controlled circumstances; or it gets fit in a manner contrary to its purpose, to make it effective in pvp. the harbi just slides on smoothly into either role, as it is needed; without the need for modifications, contrary to its purpose.when comparing the cane, and the harbi; even the cane comes up a little short. lower pg(still more than myrmi), 1 less turret slot(it can fit neut's or launchers).. it actually gets the same base dps with 6 projectiles, and two launchers, less one; as the myrmi and harbi get, with their respective full load of weapons up top. despite that fact, the cane can fit all that, without maxing pg; while the harbi, and myrmi, are both over on theirs. fortunately, the cane pull's ahead, when you push its skill to 5; beating both the harbi, and--significantly--the myrmi.armor capabilites are, of course, variable between the 3 ships; and take more time to consider, and weigh characteristic's of. honestly, don't really feel like doing it right now; though, i will note the cane's even lower sig, higher scan res., and automatic cap stability, granted by its guns. i think the primary factor here, is balancing everything individually; without consideration for bonuses applied in one situation. a hurricane does significantly improve dps, with it's bonuses; and a myrmi does gets it's bonuses to drones and armor rep. these are situations; they are not constants. individually, any one weapon, or module; should be as good, as any other in its class. ship's should apply role bonuses, that make sense for their faction/classification; and all, should be equally capable of holding their own on the battlefield. i think this is all; any player can ask."
"to be honest, i never wanted to argue the difference between armor tanking bc's. my point was that if gallente became the fastest race, you would not be able to use the minmatar ships to kite, as a shield brutix with a scram will always catch a shield hurricane then and it becomes a case of ehp/dps race which the shield brutix wins.as far as armor tanking bc's go the harbinger is generally considered the king for plated tank and gank work, with the cane coming in second due to utility/cap stability. the myrm is a fantastic armor tanker though and has plenty of utility and is extremely versatile, more so than either of the others. it can be fitted as dual rep boat, a triple rep boat, multi plate bait, shield gank, shield kite .... theres more but i cant be bothered to write them all out. its main issue is its speed.edit. i am in no way saying that the myrm is the best ship, i would still use the harbinger or hurricane (i do), i was just pointing out that as an armor tanker its good"
"i was just considering the possibility of penalties applied, for ships fitting other factions weapons; not simply the loss of role or ship bonuses, as those are generally inconsistent, and not applied to those weapons in every circumstance. thus, a myrmi fitting autocannons, would gain the benefit of low cap and pg req.; while it would actually take a hit to dps output and tracking for example. this would of course, be a compatibility issue; based on the ships computers, interfacing with foreign weapon systems. similar penalties, could be applied to various modules; which would be more consistent, with a certain faction's use of assisting modules, such as gallente sensor dampener's. similarly, armor ships, could fit shield tech, but suffer from its use; while shield tanking ships, would suffer from applying armor tanking modules.this would help to reduce, or remove; exploitation of fitting for max. benefit from all factions. the reason for this, is that nerf's typically occur; when one faction/type of module or weapon, is used something else more powerful. example being myrmi with autocannon's: suddenly the myrmi has pg to spare, more versatile dps, and a full cap. reserve; while being able to dish out less dps, but at greater range, and still field its drones.(i'm not sure the range increase for autocannon's; is worth that drop in dps, they have. it loses some 60 dps without role bonuses; for the addtion of 5.7 km falloff, with max. skill.)another thing to consider, is speed vs. range; which has been mentioned already. there's a reason minmatar ships, are considered one of the best pvp ships; it's a combination of speed, maneuverability, low sig. radius, and weapon range factors. they have the ability to control the battlefield, by achieving positional superiority; while not only mitigating the damage they recieve, but applying dps at range, and being able to maintain a reasonable shield or armor tank. this, is optimal.gallente suffer from poor weapon range, speed, and maneuverability; which bring us back to the original post. this, is the commonly recognized problem; and one which has to be remedied, in some fashion. as an alternative to blaster's, or autocannon's; you can fit hybrid rails, and increase range. this increases both pg and cpu req., while reducing dps significantly; providing nearly 100 dps loss per group of 6 highest t2 mediums. the benefit there is range. the downside, is the dps can't eat through anything dps-to-ehp or dps-to-active tank; and stronger close range ships, will just close in and dps you to death. let's face it, max dps on a myrmi with 250mm tech ii rails, and all level v skills; coupled with all six lows filled with tech ii mag stab's, is only 295. not only that, but i've got frig's; that could survive 4-5, of it's alpha strikes.drones, added to that, does make it more significant; but its not the only one, that can use them. it does have more than usual of course; and 2 hammerhead ii, 2 ogre ii, and 1 hobgoblin ii, will dish out a decent 315 dps. unfortunately, somebody wipes out your ogre ii's; and it drops to a measly 125 dps, until you field 2 more. so, they suffer not only in positional superiority; but in logistical superiority as well. it does make for a nice initial deployment; though, still suffering in overall dps.that's just a myrmi. role and ship bonus's, combined with high drone bandwidth and capacity; make it more practical, than other gallente vessels."
"the main reason people fit myrms with autocannons is for the cap, not really the range. the main things gallente need is more damage so they are the kings damage wise inside scram range. according to some other posters in other threads a geddon out dps a mega at 8km(i think) when really the only time a geddon should out dps a mega is outside scram/or overheated web range. gallente ships should be able to be kited by longer range boats, thats the point of hte range boats, but if a gallente ship gets tackle (scram and web) on an equivalent sized ship it should be lights out, atm blasters, although still the highest dps guns, do not out dps the amarr or minmatar boats by enough to make it a forgone conclusion."
"the problem with that; is that it creates an auot-win situation. that sort of thing shouldn't exist; as it allows players to set up that dynamic. fit a mwd, 2 od's, nano, shield tank, scram, web, and two mag stab's; launch drones, and press the \"i win\" button, when the first ship jumps through gate. it might not work on a battleship with a scrambler, and web; but that's not really the point, is it, as two or 3 ships like that will. this logic doesn't really solve anything; it just creates more exploits to take advantage of.my thought is: give all gallente ships a 10% boost to scan resolution, and a 30% decrease in signature radius, to start; this will effectively increase their damage mitigation, and allow for faster target locking. test it on sisi! so maybe they're slow; and perhaps they should be. the majority of gallente ships, don't appear to be designed for speed; but that doesn't mean they can't have electronic shielding, reducing their sig radius. look at all weapons, and compare them to the factions, and ships they are intended to be used on; then rebalance them, appropriate to those ships general statistic's. slow ships should have longer range weapons. there's no reason hybrid plasma can't maintain coherence at greater ranges; and blasters could effectively dps at greater distances. the possible addition of explosive damage, could work with hybrid plasma too; giving them more versatile dps, and potentially more effective dps. unfortunately, there's nothing you can do with lasers; em and thermal, is about all a laser can project.as i mentioned before, compatibility issues could arrise; from using other faction weapons, on your ships. this would be to remove the use of exploit fits; where ships achieve stupid dps--and--absurd tanks, or speed. due to the varying nature of different factions ship designs; weapon fitting exploitation, becomes a problem when weapons are balanced for those ships. this is something we don't want.while i agree with this thread, and have supported it; i do believe the whole system need to be looked at. not just those modules, weapons, and ships; which are strictly gallente in origin. if one thing is changed; it will affect another, or result in an exploit somewhere. it will be mass dps tactical advantage in situation; or it will be something else. you'll find people fitting hybrid blasters on minmatar ships with no turret bonuses; and maxing their speed, for highly efective dps they wouldn't normally obtain."
"1.0"
"don't read too much into the hail in the fit, it was just what i had in there at the time of copying. also, the tracking disruptor makes a huge difference, because the harb is now in web/scram range, and once the cane gets in there, he can switch up the td to nullify a lot of the harbi's dps, as well as control the range because of his greater speed. we can play fittings all day, but that was never my point with this. the point was that the armor hurricane is by no means useless, and is quite a good ship actually. buffing gallente will not mean minmatar boats are suddenly relegated to uselessness.to the more important point about speed, there is no reason why minmatar boats should be able to kite gallente boats without seriously altering their fits to give them a speed bonus. it's ridiculous that the race with the shortest range should not ever be able to catch up to the other race. it doesn't work in theory, and it definitely does not work in practice. rsds can't be a counter in and of themselves because a gallente ewar ship can't control everything on the battlefield, just like an ecm ship can't now. as gang size goes up, a ship has to rely more on its own functionality. if we rebuff rsds for everyone, then we're back to the bad old days, and there's nothing stopping a faster ship (like the cane) from fitting it's own rsd and swapping for longer range ammo, another automatic 'i win' button.and frankly, it's not the shield tanking that makes minmatar speed op, it's the mass combined with base speed. a shield cane is way faster than a shield brutix. same with an armor cane vs. an armor brutix. even though it has better range and comparable dps. clearly something is wrong with that picture from a fundamental design perspective."
"unfortunately your hurricane has no means to tackle the harbinger at long range to make use of its td without waving a huge sign reading \"warp away now please\" in its face.the myrmidon on the other hand has that ability in a td buffer fit, as well as superior damage projection at range. it can also dominate your hurricane in the same way.quite the contrary, there is no reason gallente boats should catch up to minmatar boats without altering their fits.how is a hurricane supposed to stand up to a myrmidon if not by speed advantage?tds are the counter you are looking for, fortunately the myrmidon has an extra mid over the hurricane to use them properly.you are comparing a tier1 battlecruiser to a tier2 battlecruiser. this is bound to fail given the current tier system, and frankly gallente get pretty much the best deal for their tier1 battlecruiser of all the races.also, a properly fit shield brutix is merely 60ms slower than a properly fit shield hurricane. that is nothing with current overheating mechanics, its very easy to grab the shield cane for a competent pilot.anyway, this whole minmatar vs gallente speed discussion is pretty much pointless as this idea will never see the light of day for very good reason. if you want to go down the speed argument road, maybe ask yourself why the amarr platforms enjoy the same speed as gallente ones and work from there.pretty much the only thing in your op i can agree with is fittings, that is for the medium size platforms (thorax, brutix, deimos, astarte). this is where work needs to be done, preferrably by upgrading fittings instead of reducing requirements of the weapons. then some bonus adjustments could be done for brutix and astarte.thats not enough to give support to your topic unfortunately, as some of your other ideas are just not helping at all, and some obviously not properly thought out at all regarding their consequences for game balance."
"+1 supported"
"while i admit that i thought the same thing when i first heard of repair drones (and was dissapointed when i realised i couldnt rep myself), i see no need for this change.currently, ships have no real problems with tanking - so why spend time fixing a problem that doesnt exist? additionally, you run into all sorts of risks with ship balancing, both against other ships and against npc encounters. given that there is no immediate problem that needs to be fixed, there's no justification of taking this risk.tl;dr - repair drones are fine as they are."
"in that case, there needs to be a change to the descriptions stating that they cannot be used in this way. nowhere does it indicate that these are remote effects that can only be used on other people."
"supportedit's a non sense that your drones, frigate sized ships, under your command are incapable of repair your own steel spacebike.give us another skill to learn and most important: number limit of drones on self repair = 5"
"you're an idiot. if you don't have experience at an issue, calling you out on it is credible. this why potato peelers from chip shops aren't called to discuss the effects of tpa on stroke at neuro conferences. furthermore, if you are insulted by being told you don't understand how drones were set to work then i suggest you htfu."
"1.0"
"this may be the simplest and most elegant solution, though i wonder if ccp would go for it being that easy, they may get a giggle out of some of us using our ecm/combat drones on your own ships"
"while i have some doubts about whether anyone from ivy can really speak about anything related to combat, i'd like to point out that this suggestion would have some very big effects in certain situations:it would allow armor buffer tanked ships to repair themselves without going to a station and quite possibly give armor a true passive tank, while still costing it the use of drones for other things.it would reduce the proliferation of ecm drones.it would reduce the proliferation of warrior ii drones on some ships, which means ivy itself will have less to worry about.it would create an entire drone culture based on defense, which is right now not in existence.it would buff solo pvp."
"supported!"
"some people just can't take a hint"
"yes, i was hinting that if you have a problem with people posting the you probably shouldn't be posting yourself, especially not just so you can post to tell people that you don't think they should be posting. i see i wasn't explicit enough."
"so you are saying that in theory large blobs can zip around the map when in fact they really don't?also you say it is more of an accurate statement that fleets that are out for hours rarely have the stamina to add more hours to their trip if jump bridges are gone?sorry if my depth of vocabulary and word usage is not as vast as yours. i just want to make sure i fully understand what you are saying before i make a reply to it."
"none of the last 6 posts add anything relevant to the main topic.of course i could just ignore it. it happens all the time in every long thread. but it'd be nice if reminder to be considerate actually worked."
"none of your recent posts do, either, but you keep posting about how posting is bad. i do not understand your source of confusion. -the ability to zip around the map is a theoretical and not a pragmatic onebecause-fleets that are out for hours rarely, if ever, have the stamina and will left to go add a few more hours to their night.how many major fights have you been in, that drag on for hours with one or both sides repeatedly re-shipping, and after they're done the members in the fleet are eager to spend another several hours in a slugging match somewhere else?"
"this thread is lol. is it possible to use the same fleet for offense and defense in trivial time, regardless of distance?yes.does ccp, csm, or from reading the thread, a significant amount of people like this?no.the attempts to deflect the discussion of the main subject to politics and now player stamina are hilarious and worthy of a third rate magician. by the way, +1 to jump bridges burning. 0.0 is hello kitty and friends online."
"already identified is the fact that depending on regions, jb's don't save any significant time at all. we're talking a difference of ten minutes or twenty minutes round trip tribute to fountain core. and, yes, the fact that players don't generally have the desire to play for hours straight in a major battle and then turn around and play more hours in another one is perfectly relevant to whether or not people will actually play for hours straight in a major battle and then turn around and play more hours in another one. it's funny that you call that a \"deflection\"."
"and in other regions they save a significant amount of time, funny you neglect to acknowledge that. oh wait, you don't like facts that don't fit your argument. right.and whether those players play in a fleet again right after or not, it doesn't change the underlying fact that when they play again (if they didn't get too tired!), they will be able to move huge fleets in trivial amounts of time, regardless of distance (depending on the region, in some the time savings arent significant... however, in others, most you could say, they are )and so, i call it a deflection. the underlying problem is the ease of force projection and mobility bridges allow. and that ccp does not think bridges are working as intended. this is a problem you don't address, and which you replace with \"well, i think they work just dandy\". which they plainly and obviously, do not.according to those who make the game.that is the discussion and not politics, player stamina, or the color of your underwear."
"yeah, because you made it up. ccp never said that bridges aren't working as intended. they're working exactly as intended. pos bowling was a feature not working at intended. being able to jump capitals to covert cynos is a feature not working at intended. greyscale said that nullsec politics weren't working the way he wanted, not that jb's weren't working as intended. that's totally different, and you're trying to substitute what was actually said for a completely different issue. swing and a miss. you being wrong is not me ignoring something.even going from the eastern tip of tenal at sf-xj to pnqy you're looking at a difference of 29 jumps with bridges and 18 more without. even if we were talking 30 jumps, or 40, that amount of time saved is insignificant to major battles that can and do go on for 4-8 hours. which is essential to determining whether or not jb networks actually allow for big fights at one end of the galaxy and then the other with the same fleet in theory or in standard practice. but, what's that? \"oh wait, you don't like facts that don't fit your argument. right.\" 1w on the eastern tip of vale to pnqy, 28 jumps with bridges, 38 without. when compared to the process of getting thousands of people to a combat zone in multiple reinforcement waves, whether or not you save 20 minuets on the trip is not game breaking. if that was really the objection, you could keep jump bridges and nerf ships' warp speed by 90%. force projection is accomplished whenever a large bunch of people decide to hit a target. that extra 20 minutes won't change that, and if that's really the goal it's pointless."
"but they did. they want to change bridges because they don't work as they wish. they aren't changing politics or any of the things you would rather discuss. and you accusing people of making something up? hilarious. quit your day job, comedy is for you. your opinion is noted. it is however, wrong. it is my postulation, that of ccp's, and from reading the thread, quite a few reasonable people that the amount of time saved is not insignificant. it may be to you, for you are immortal and got unlimited time, but apparently, for everyone else, its not. in theory or standard practice, it happens, and is deemed a problem. again, your opinion is valued but unfortunately, not based on facts.and if those ships arent fighting offensive and defensive battles in different eds of the galaxy, well, where do they go when the pilots succumb to stamina? vanish into thin air just to reintegrate somewhere else? oh yeah, they jump back when needed. yep, jump bridges again. but the problem is not warp speed, and warp speed does not teleport ships. by the way i like your new act of dismissing bridges now as irrelevant. classy. you seem to be the only one with that opinion. i think that those extra 20 minutes will change that. the devs do too. and really, if you are convinced its an irrelevant change that won't affect anything you care about, well, then you have no objection to it. and your numerous posts of straw men and out of context quoting, ommissions and whatnot are but part of your arguing for the sake of arguing fetish?intriguing."
"i support this! nullsec is too small. alliances hold too much space. force people not to hold as much space!if this doesn't pan out, then put jump bridges on planets or a module for the ihub itself."
"and both of you making the classic non-engineer mistake of confusing \"do what i say\" and \"do what i mean\".in the end, all of ccp's decisions are done with the intent of making the game better but because they invest very little time in planning, testing, review, or for that matter really any part of the iterative model other then \"implement\" and \"deliver\", the results are at best unreliable.when ccp added bridges, their intent was to link nullsec together, but their overriding intent has always been to make the game better. that is still their goal, but now they're less convinced that what they did jives with what they want to do.they're kinda stuck on their own marketing bs really, they have a principle of providing deliverables on a timetable that leaves little room for serious thought about how to proceed. considering that ccp is the only major software company in iceland (of any kind) i'm not exactly surprised that their adherence to good software design principles falls a bit short of say blizzard."
"i do not support the idea of jump bridge removal. i'm not paying my subscription to look at gate getting slowly closer. if you want 'bigger' universe add more systems."
"space means nothing without time. if it takes one hour to go from one end to other, that's how big space is, regardless of how many systems there are. we could have huge universe with 100 systems, if it would take one hour from gate to gate and jump drives were limited to once per day. and we could have tiny universe with 10000 systems, if it takes 10 seconds from gate to gate and jump drives can jump from one side to other at will."
"only anchor jbs at planets and only those of a particular type (plasma? storm?) - one per planet.with dust mercs can then interfere with jbs as one of their (high tier?) objectives either by greatly increasing fuel cost, causing a cooldown or whatever. look ccp, synergy!"
"post with your main. stop making **** up.ccp has not stated that bridges are not working as intended. they are working exactly as intended. greyscale specifically stated that one of the reasons for getting rid of bridges was to change politics. it's also rather dishonest for you to claim that the idea was to 'change' bridges or to fix them so they 'work as they wish'. the idea was to remove them completely from the game. and yet you're claiming that completely removing jb's from the game is 'fixing them so they work'.it's a fact not an opinion. and you've attempted to deny it with the bandwagon fallacy (plus the fallacy of appeal to authority). it's a bit hard to tell what you actually understand, as it seems that \"rafia landras audeles\" evidently doesn't have combat experience and is an alt that started posting within the last 24 hours. but the ability to save half an hour on deployment is insignificant when compared to how a battle actually unfolds, that getting podded home is often the way people return, and that folks often get to a system and fight until they're spent and then just log off somewhere and try to caravan back home at a later date. that ccp doesn't get it is unsurprising. these are the people surprised when told what effects lag has on a big fleet battle. give proof or retract. how often does it \"happen\" and how much of an effect does it have on actual conflicts in progress? also, as you keep ignoring it, how much of a difference are those 10 to 20 extra jumps. do you have evidence that fleets say \"ah, well, it'll take us 10 extra minutes to get into another fight that we want to be in... so everybody stand down and make yourself a sammich\"?and yes, if those ships aren't fighting offensive and defensive battles they stand down, or log off in highsec/lowsec, or log off in nullsec and try to get a scout back later. and again, having 10-20 (or even ~gasp!~ 30) fewer minutes to make it back to home base is hardly game breaking. and here we see that your argument is pretty much a troll. you've just been going on and on and on about travel time. i point out a very good way to reduce travel time, and all of a sudden nope, it's not about travel time anymore. and the objection that jb's \"teleport\" ships is immaterial, as gates do too, and you can camp/gank on both gates and jb's. as for dismissing bridges as \"irrelevant\", yah, you're making that up too. bandwagon fallacy coupled with calling facts an opinion. coalitions projected force long before jb's existed. yes, sometimes even when it took a while to get where they were going. because that's what's essential for force projection, the will to travel, not the ability to save 10 minutes on travel. the argument from nuhn unhh!! doesn't change that fact. yah, stop making **** up.oh, and, even changes that 'don't effect things' might be bad ideas too. letting a five year old draw new ship models would suck. you're making things up, there've been no stawmen. you're making things up, i've quoted nothing out of context. you're making things up, there were no omissions. but nice trolling. obviously proving you wrong is only done because i have a \"fetish\" for arguing for it's own sake. post with your main."
"absolutely true, but they are the sole reason for powerblocs being able to super-size.the gbc, ra, goons et al. of old were not coalitions made up of half the bloody map but rather regional powers forming alliances with neighbours. that changed dramatically as bridges grew in numbers and distance was no longer a hindrance.\"lol\" at using an invasion of the single hardest part of space to get to as example of anything regarding force projection being balanced.when i lived there it it took half an hour to get to low-sec with bridges .. truly the ass-end of the cluster.bridges make null too easy, too convenient, too prosperous and provides power disproportionate to the costs.and really, that crap about the sandbox .. stop it already or use it properly:ccp not only owns the bloody box but are the sole purveyors on the sand within it.they have on several occasion been forced to replace some of the sand that turned out to be cement in order for the box to be open for everyone.additional suggestion to bridge balance:- bridge consumes all available cpu/grid of pos.keeps the convenience but with same vulnerability as stargates."
"i support the idea.however, the logistical item-moving that jump bridges support should not be ignored.i think jump bridges should be reworked as hangars that may be accessed in two locations, with fuel requirements based on the cubic meters of volume moved."
"wait what?at its (pre-jump bridge) height the gbc stretched from omist to fountain, and the nc (if you choose to treat the current deklein bloc as part of the nc) held more or less exactly the same space as they do now."
"are you using the fallacy of post hoc ergo propter hoc, or ****hoc ergo propter hoc? hard to tell. can you elaborate? you are simply wrong. the forces arrayed against bob in the first great war included most of the north, plus the goons, plus ra. bob's empire was also significantly larger, taking up most of the west and much of the south. and you're drawing a distinction without a difference. 'sure, there were massive coalitions, but now coalitions are bigger so it doesn't count!' as identified, the actual saving on time are fairly trivial. if distance is \"not a hinderance\" now, then it was equally \"not a hinderance\" before when the only difference was 10-20 minutes extra travel time in many cases. there are any number of factors that may have influenced the game, from the personality and agenda of the leadeship of the game's alliances to the influx of new players to sov mechanics, and so on. claiming that bridges are the sole cause is an abdication of reason. post hoc is a fallacy, not a piece of logical reasoning. you have no idea what you're talking about, do you?a massive invasion force was assembled, entire regions were invaded and a lot of space, including highly vital space, fell. the invasion was orchestrated, for all practical purposes, with jb's being irrelevant along one front and of negligable impact on the second. and the defenders had their own jb network but they were still beaten by invaders in numerous key battles. this shows both that force projection can be accomplished without requiring bridges and that bridges are perfectly capable of being countered, even on a multi-region scale with a huge coalition defending them. the \"too easy\" claim is not just subjective, but nonsensical. saving people time in lugging **** around hardly makes nullsec easier in any essential manner; a coalition that's put to siege and their jb's reinforced is hardly going to have an easy time of things. \"too convenient\" is simply subjective preference masquerading as objective truth. and it's one that disagrees with the perspective of many other people who'd rather spend more time playing the game and less time moving. to say nothing of the fact that, again, if moving slowly is the goal then you could cut warp speed down to 10% of current and accomplish it easily. as for jb's making nullsec \"prosperous\", that's simply fictional, not even subjective. plexes, sanctums and moons would still exist without jb's. the fact that ccp makes the game doesn't mean that they get to determine that player-created, player-driven content is being done wrong. not if it's a sandbox game. making a game and owning a game doesn't mean that you can turn it into a non-sandbox game and then claim that it's still a sandbox because you own it."
"couple of ideas here.1. have only 2 jb per constellation, and not let them be in the same system as one another. this allows the smaller guys to be able to have a jb going from one side of their constellation to the other, while mitigating the bigger guys ability to make an unbroken chain of them across multiple regions.2. eliminate standing or password requirement for non-alliance members to use jb. this will mean that you need to be in the owning alliance of the jb in order to use it. personally not in favor of this one because it favors the super-mega-ultra alliance.3. make jb's an invulnerable structure that is not set up at a pos. this is my favorite option (maybe because i thought of it and maybe because it's awesome lol) because it then solves at least one major issue of jb's while maintaining an ability to control choke points on the map. this would mean that instead of specific and rather boring ways to go about destroying someone at a jb (cloaky dictor, bombers, etc...) you could have a real subcapital fleet camping a jb an maybe get a real fight out of the mess. this way, the people jumping through into the next system might actually have to use scouts instead of using a deathstar to guarantee their safety.with the jb an invulnerable structure in the system - much like the tcu's or the ihub's - they would only become vulnerable when sbu's are anchored. i believe the reason that the jb's are forced to be placed at pos's is for their protection, not the protection of those traveling through them. this eliminates that necessity.flame away boys and girls."
"oops, forgot.4. remove them entirely!as a proviso to this option however, null-sec would need to become more self sufficient. less logistical need for infrastructure and more real living in your space. the military logistics should be hard as it is."
"perhaps we should look to creating dynamic region stargates that connect to certain regions at certain times?as was proved with planetside, static links tend to force combat towards the common ground, which in the case of eve, is wherever hisec is nearest.i think jbs were intended to nullify this tendency, and while their removal is certainly a good idea from a pvp point of view, you are still left with the utter isolation of the far reaches of nullsec. (though, perhaps, that's a good thing?)"
"if vuk didn't have irl stuff at the time of the summit, i doubt this nonsense would have seen the light of dayanyway i'm running, i'm not going to let this kind of idiocy take hold without a fight."
"and mittens knows where you live."
"dear finnagain zero,yet again i find your lack of reason / logic unsurprising. unlike you many people in this thread have actually read the notes released on the proposed changes and they are to be frank, completely within reason. the fact that you run out here attempting to blindly brow beat anyone suggesting that these proposed changes are anything but terrible is easily read to be desperation or ignorance.while you might think that you are helping your cause and your coalition, your lack of well reasoned arguments and lack of understanding as to what the proposed changes are reveals you and anyone else blindly complaining about issues which have no relation to what is being discussed (ie. sandbox games - if i want to put turrets on my drake i should be allowed to because its a sandbox game...) in paniced frenzy, are not concerned in the slightest about the wellbeing of this game, but your own misguided desire to \"keep winning\".ive got news for you... if you say these changes will do nothing to you and your coalition, and honestly believed that as i do. i doubt you would be so fervently defending them.on a closing note, the man who designed jumpbridges is now one of the biggest advocates for their removal. if this doesnt speek louder than the rest of this thread, there is nothing that can be done for you.foreveralone.jpg"
"limegreen trolling? what a surprise! stop trolling and identify an actual argument you disagree with, then show why it's wrong. lying troll, not only have i read them, i've found myself continually correcting people who've claimed things like that they're not explicitly about breaking up coalitions. yes, it speaks to your utter lack of honesty and logic. jb's were not designed by one guy. and even if true, the minutes show that his objection was not that they're not functioning as intended, but that he wants to violate the sandbox and try to alter mechanics in order to hurt political choices he doensn't like. you're also trolling, as the people who voice certain positions is an irrelevancy, and the support for those positions is all that matters. i've been over all this, which is why you resort to trolling and can't actually address what i've said, and instead need to spew personal insults and babble about mistakes i've made rather than pointing out a single one."
"desperate complaining is not an argument, the fact that you feel the need to pick through every single post that isnt agreeing with you in some feeble attempt to discredit it is both childish and weak.i would disagree with you if you actually believed what you are saying. as it stands you are going down a path where \"the ends justify the means\" where you are willing to say pretty much anything to stop these proposed changes going through. of course if you actually knew what the changes were you might have a better shot at making arguments against them, but then... you wouldnt be finnagain zero. so thats beyond the point."
"yah, again:-stop trolling.-if you claim that i've made any errors, actually point them out an rebut them rather than spewing empty and impotent personal insults.-definitely stop trying to play internet psychologist, it's embarrassing and does not mesh well with your conspiracy theories either. just because you're dishonest and troll because you hate coalitions doesn't mean that others are engaging in your same behavior; liars think everybody lies, thieves think everybody steals and trolls cannot understand that other people believe their own arguments.feel free to address the actual arguments or admit that you can not and your position is utterly bankrupt, by just trolling some more."
"no they didn't alliances still exist"
"we are finaly making progress with you it seems, attempting to address arguments rather than choice exerts.ive made my point, that is: you have not carefully read (or understood) the proposed changes. even should you, i dont expect you to see reason or be happy about them. the man who owns the cheap labor factory is never the most willing to see the world change. (that isnt to say that he doesnt see its wrong, just his integrity has a price on it.) you have been compromised. your opinion on these matters is highly prejudice and you are incapable of weighing the benefits to this game against your own personal satisfaction.i could spend a good hour or so going through the issues you have raised such as \"sandbox game\", \"coalition mentality\" and other largely poorly formed arugments you have made to smokescreen the real issues these changes are addressing, but im certain it will get me nowhere with you.anyone who want to sit down on ts with me at any time and get a full explanation of my beliefs and reasoning is welcome to."
"the onus is not on me to prove that you have not read or understood the notes.just sayin brah.edit: although given it would be more fun if it was:you assume you know what ccp intends and how the mechanics should be used. i say that ccp intended for ecm bursts to hit ships inside poses giving them agro... prove me wrong.you address the notes as though they are irrelevant given human nature. the notes as i read them had nothing to do with removing blobs from the game. the fact that they will make it harder to blob does not remove your free choice to join blobs and does not stop your blob flying 60 jumps to do whatever it is you want to do. it is about ballance and providing hopefully more instances of pvp. the fact that so many people have read this to be \"the end of pvp\" or \"the rise of macros\" or best yet \"the death of small alliances\" proves to me beyond a shadow of a doubt that these people have either not understood the changes, or are so concerned for their own (abusive) style of play that they are prepared to spread panic and poor arguments to further their cause.now at the end of the day when you cant really argue with this as an argument i expect you to either dismiss it as \"lies and trolls\" or pick out random bits and try shout it down.but that my friend, is how ive come to the belief that you dont know what you are talking about."
"i accept your admission that you are lying and trolling and you can not rebut or debunk a single thing i have said."
"he who joyfully marches to music in rank and file has already earned my contempt. he has been given a large brain by mistake, since for him the spinal cord would surely suffice."
"ah, i see that after i pointed out that you were still trolling, you edited your post to make it look like you aren't, of course you're still trolling.trollin: we do know what was intended and that the mechanic is working as intended. just like we know that you are lying about having read the minutes as greyscale never said that there was an exploit involved but that he wanted to institute a mechanics change to try to hurt political forms he doesn't like and to stop sandbox play so that only content that is ccp approved can be engaged in by the players. trolling: it was specifically stated that it was about trying to hurt players' ability to create political situations as they saw fit.strawman: people have pointed out that making it take longer to get fights may possibly slow the pace and/or encourage turtleing.trolling: you are trying to pretend that game mechanics aimed at breaking the sandbox and stopping players from creating bullard content that us bit approved by ccp is about \"more pvp\", because you are dishonestly shilling for a position where ccp while prevent people from creating their own content in a sandbox game and instead try to force them to fight people they'd otherwise choose to cooperate with.trolling: when people creating player-driven content that you do not like and can't counter in game is \"abusive\", you are obviously just flaming people for choosing to creat player-created content in a way that you, subjectively, hate.internet psychologist: just because you argue dishonestly and troll to support your position does not mean anybody else is doing so, let alone everybody who points out your many errors. obvious trolling: no further elaboration required.trolling: responding to the premises or an argument is hardly improper, if essential context was actuallly missed you could then point it out and rebut any errors. instead you simply troll about the fact that arguments are responded to individually and not with a wall of text.trolling: by lying and trolling and then stating that your lying and trolling will be pointed out, you are trying to premptively protect your trolling and dishonesty from rebuttal. trolling: as proven i have bit only read the minutes but either you have not or you are lying about their contents."
"for the record im 3 from 3 in predictions in this thread, and i would like to encourage you to never stop posting. each time you sperge like this you give strength to everything ive been saying.i doubt the panic and ignorance you hope to sew will change the decisions makers minds at this stage, as it is just sperging."
"for people who are not finnagain zero i would like to provide you with something to think about. (he will no doubt sperge i hope you learn from his mistakes and actually think about the changes.)these changes do not take away you choice or your ability to group up in numbers. what it does is encourages the use of stargates and increases the danger in sovreign 0.0. (whether it be yours or your enemys). how is this likely to affect 0.0? provide overall more instances of pvp by bring slightly more imperative to dealing with hostile gangs and by encouraging convoy systems. arguments based on the nature of this game being a sandbox are completely irrelevant and non-sensical as these changes in no way affect your option to make choices and form what coalitions you want. that these changes encourage smaller scale pvp again (hopefully revitalising 0.0 pvp and giving meaning to smaller gangs once more - which has been lacking for some time.if you are reading these changes as an attack on the coalition system, you are so so so wrong. the point is not to stop people blobbing, and ccp nor their representatives have ever said anything like this. that you read encourage smaller gangs and more pvp to \"the deliberate attack on coalitions\" i think is very telling. seeking to victimise yourselves i find highly ironic, as every time a game mechanic crops up that you deem \"unfair\" you are more than willing to spam all up and down these forums until such a thing is changed - point in case 07' carrier changes.however when this game is at the precipice of changing for greater oppertunities for pvp and a more vibrant and active 0.0scape you are prepared to throw it all away for your own ignorant fear.i promiss you, and im on a bit of a roll with cool quotes today: the greatest ignorance is to reject something you know nothing about. these changes are of great benefit to anyone who enjoys pvp. if you dont enjoy pvp, then fine... contest these changes, but do so on those ground. not some false sense of moral panic."
"trolling: yet again in this thread minigin is unable to accurately describe facts, engage actual arguments, deal with others' let alone provide factual refutations of his own, and can only troll.speaking of which:trolling an lying: minigin proves that he did not actually read the minutes and had been trolling about how others allegedly did not. greyscale makes clear, specifically, that his goals are to try to hurt coalitions and force them to fight amongst themselves rather than going across the map and attacking other groups simply to start wars for th sake of pvp."
"they have, and it was greyscale who threw the idea of deleting jump bridges altogether. you know, the dev, wishing to remove something because, well, it doesn't work as intended. you may want to read the minutes. ad hominem fallacy, zip up bro, your hypocresy is showing. no, its an opinion with nothing backing it up but your own unreliable statements. facts are backed by something, and you have neither statistics nor.. well facts to back any of your utterly wrong opinions. the developers disagree, i disagree, etc. in b4 omfg fallacies, the onus is on you to prove your nonsensical claims, do you have numbers regarding any of this? didn't think so. more misdirection? first it was politics, then sandboxing wrong, now it is warp speed that is the problem? protip: the topic today is jump bridges. i know you don't want to talk about those, feel free to submit your grandiose ideas about warp speed in a relevant thread. inb4 \"no really, the problem is local\" your opinion, as has been established, is an opinion, your opinion, is not a fact. i don't think the word fact means what you think it means. protip: it does not mean \"finnagain's opinion\"so now the problem is five year olds and ship models? one whole post is too much for you to stay on topic? and where is you know, proof for anything you claim?there is only one troll here, and that would be you.by the by, here is a map of the northern bridge network. see the colorful tendrils? those are jump bridges connecting.. well everywhere with everywhere. i guess some people see the time savings as significant. go figure. map"
"you want to make space bigger, let us blow up stations.stations are more to blame for how spread out alliances are than bridges. if there wasn't a station in near every single large alliance null sec system, people wouldn't be as spread out. bridges wouldn't be used to connect all the ratting grounds. it would take time and warfare, but the sandbox would then be molded by the players rather than some artificial intervention by ccp."
"yes im sure that sounds aweful for you, nearby pvp as opposed to the other side of the map? ludacris. thats just unfair. people should be encouraged by mechanics to form giant naplists that there are no closeby targets. i dont see how anyone should be for changing jumpbridges now. well played sir.for those of you who actually want to read the minutes though: \"ccp has always wanted smaller goals that can be achieved with smaller fleet subsets\"\"*ccp has+ gone *too far+ in the direction of making players lives easy  we've got jump freighters and jump bridges and all this *stuff+  and i think there is an agreement here *at ccp+ that we want to pull back from that.\"\"much of the csm agreed that alliance logistics is too easy\"\"it was suggested that ccp, as part of any changes to logistics, take the opportunity to eliminate mindless pain, and add gameplay value.\"\"more opportunities for conflict in the logistics, making it easier for other players to trap you if you're being sloppy.\"\"there is concern that logistics into deep nullsec will be much more difficult than shallow nullsec.greyscale: awesome, more things to fight over. and more importantly, more differentiation between different areas of space..\"\"greyscale feels that reduction in mobility will decrease need for big coalitions, because huge coalition blobs won't be able to move as fast; result should be smaller local wars.\"\"it is noted that the cost of supporting coalition allies will increase, which will increase friction; coalitions may fragment so reds are easier to find. this may make it easier for small alliances to set up shop, with less supercapital curb stomping.\"\"the csm notes that if changes are made to make logistics more difficult, entry points into nullsec will become even bigger choke-points than at present. this issue was discussed in june, with the csm suggesting more entry points.\"\"what is ccp's vision about small alliances? ccp wants them to be able to be independent if they want, and feels reducing the ability of large alliances to hold a lot of space will make this more viable  it make the curb-stomping harder. another issue is that at present large alliances start feeling secure, get bored, and say \"we have nothing better to do, lets go crush these guys.\"\"\"the csm feels that avoiding a fight should cost you, and notes that when controlling large amounts of space, it's hard to respond to stuff happening on the periphery. there needs to be incentives to take the fight vs. \"let them knock it over and we'll go fix it afterwards\"\"\"greyscale: shooting structures suck, it is a terrible mechanic.\"\"with respect to the issue of aggression timers and logoffski, greyscale deployed his catch-phrase  it sucks balls. the problem of legitimate disconnects remains, but if you are in a fight and lose your connection, then that ought to be tough luck.\"well done ccp for heading in the right direction. a big thank you from me!"
"minigin is trolling, again. notice that the part he underlined was about shooting structures and did not even that it was not working as intended, just that the intention had been bad. mini proves he was lying and trolling and hadn't read it and is kind enough to quote it, where greyscale says over and over that his goal is to break player-created content, try to hurt politics he doesn't like and break up coalitions.no, seriously though, stop lying. they did not allege a single exploit or claim that jbs were somehow operating other than designed. minigin inexplicably posted the text of the minutes to prove that he'd been lying about their content and having read them, who do you expect to fool when they're still posted?i know that you heard someone talk about fallacies and thought it was cool, but they have actual definitions. you clearly have no clue what an ad hom is. you also clearly have no idea what hypocrisy is. i've spent time in many, many long fleet fight and speak from experience. you are on an alt troll account with no combat stats and no facts to back up your nonsense.lying and trolling. the objection came from greyscale not \"the developers\". also trolling as you have no data to back up your pains and you are posting on an alt troll account with no combat experience while i actually know from experience.more trolling. your lack of compehension is not q lack of clarity on my part. the minutes clearly show that the intend is to alter nullsec's political landscape. it obvious that you're trolling as it explicitly says just that. likewise you are trolling by pretending that you don't understand the player-created politics is the same exact thing as sandbox gaming and telling people that their player-creates politics are \"wrong\" is indeed telling them they're sandboxing \"wrong\".the point about warp speed showed that you were trolling in that point as well, as you claim that you want to make it slower to move long distances, which nerfing warp speed would do, but you babble and try to avoid that fact. especially relevant since a need to warp speed would be fair and applied to everybody and not just sov holders.more trolling. caught using the bandwagon fallacy, being wrong about game history and bit understanding how cooperation and force projection actually work, you're calling facts opinions. additionally you are trolling as you claimed that correctly pointing out that your subjective opinions weren't factual was a \"ad hominem\" and that you object to \"hypocrisy\". also trolling in that you've opted for a \"i know you are but what an i\" tactic.no, the problem is that you won't stop trolling. i pointed out that even things which would have zero effect on gameplay, like five year olds drawing ship models, could be oppose as bad ideas. you are now trolling and pretending that a direct response to your claim is a change of topic. you are also trolling about proof when everything i have pointed out is either documented fact about the game's history, unlike your ignorance if the history of coalitions, or drawn from extensive experience with fleets, unlike your alt troll account with no combat stats.trolling. the jb network does not connect \"everywhere\", only nc territory.also trolling in an already refuted point, the time savings even from the eastern tip of tenal or vale to pnq are fairly minimal and not enough to significantly influence force projection and certainly not 4-8 hour long battles, let alone full scale invasions like the recent drone regions invasion. still no prof from an alt troll with no combat stats."
"oh? i didn't see any proof of anything finn, you are of course, entitled to your opinions, unsubstantiated as they may be.by the way, i'll save you the trip to google: ad ho<U+FFFD>mi<U+FFFD>nem   [ad hom-uh-nuhm -nem, ahd-] show ipaadjective1.appealing to one's prejudices, emotions, or special interests rather than to one's intellect or reason.2.attacking an opponent's character rather than answering his argument.funny, your claim of me being a troll while offering nothing to substantiate your opinions, fits perfectly there. but hey, troll is your favorite word, and a reasonable fallback for when you have nothing to say.thats okay, i understand you have no argument, and concede in the guise of childish personal attacks. i know, i know, expecting you to give any substantiation to your claims is asking for too much from you, and as we all know you are of the opinion that bridges offer insignificant time savings and that ship models are somehow relevant i would buy you a dictionary because you clearly do not understand half the words you use, but if google is too hard for you to use, i don't see why you'd use a paper one. i recommend you look up \"fact\" \"hypocrisy\" \"troll\" and \"lying\".at any rate, i am glad that you think that the changes would be inconsequential and that the bridges \"everywhere\" (not specific enough? sorry go back to internet lawyer school) are there because they look pretty in maps and not because they offer any significant tactical, or time advantage. although i disagree on the current impact of the bridges, if you think them so insignificant (which they aren't) then there is no objection you can raise against them going.by the way, ccp is the authority on bridges, and i believe that their arguments that they don't work as intended hold.. vastly more water than yours that they do . especially since ccp has, you know, facts and data, and you have unsupported opinions and forum posturing.so the bridges go."
"lack of engagement of core issues, fixation on assumptions(poor ones at that), senseless reiteration of the same poor points(you dont even bother changing the wording most of the time), lack of ability to engage a complete argument you rather clutch at exerts and even then you dont deal with those exerts you seek only to discredit them not on their merrits but with general fabrications you have been throwing at anything that isnt \"yes i think jumpbridges should not be changed\".what is the point of discussing anything with you?yes we know you dont like the propsed changes, why dont you give us the real reasons you dont like them?"
"if bridges disappear it will change nothing. we will still form coalitions and we will still be fighting halfway across the map, because we love technetium and we love shooting it and we love that the one lets us do the other a lot."
"this thread shows exactly the problem with the csm and taking feedback from this forum.about 90% of the people here clearly don't know how jump bridges are used.ccp consulting the current csm on any 0.0 detail like this also seems absurd given two thirds of the group haven't reached 0.0. fallacy 1jump bridges encourage blobs, allow blobs to move, allow blobs to form.rubbish. large fleets only occasionally use jbs. nothing stops fleets moving through normal gates anyway, they aren't going to be ganked or blocked on a gate route, it is just a more boring way to play. you know how we know this? it happens today when there doesn't happen to be a jb route where we want to go (ie. most of the ****ing time). jump bridges aren't what allows a 200 man fleet to form in a staging system either - jump clones do.fallacy 2jump bridges reduce small scale pvp/ganking.i'll tell you want reduces small scale pvp. the fact that there are no small scale objectives worth fighting for in a contested pvp encounter, and ganking gets steadily harder as the player base gains a better understanding of game mechanics (warping to a safespot is not hard).all jump bridges really do is allow member and small corp level logistical and industrial activity within alliance organisations. take away jump bridges and you'll just leave more activities that can only be performed by alliance (blob) level organisation, or by bitter vets with capitals. the guys who are currently hard (not that hard) to gank on jbs will be impossible to gank in a blob, they'll just be more bored because everything is taking longer for no reason.small gangs use them to chase targets as well, but i don't see how that is a bad thing - given that it means more pew pew.professional game designers ought to have realised by now that players will always feel they have to do things the best possible way or not at all. they will then complain or go off in a huff when they then find they are not having as much fun.fallacy 3logistics doesn't take long enough.well jesus ****ing christ, this is what you get when you vote for the current csm. nobody can seriously think this."
"if bridges disappear it will change pvp dynamics significantly. stargate traffic would increase significantly, number of small scale pvp encounters would rise, large scale pvp operations would require more effort to organize and execute, with more risks for counter attacks and multiple fronts.0.0 would become more hardcore - that cannot be disputed. it will have minimal impact on political structures of eve.it's not the intent of ccp to break up big power blocks. but ccp seems to be concerned with pvp strategies used by the power blocks."
"you seem to assume that people would use gates. i would say they would be using jump capable ships instead. carriers are nowadays cheaper than ships people use for ratting for quite significant portion of playerbase. so it's quite easy to get one and use it to haul your pod and whatever ships you need to be moving. only ones using gates would be alts in shuttles. this not the eve that was when jump bridges were first introduced. when hotdroppin people with 3 carriers was 'a statement'. nowadays 3 carriers at a gate are a bait."
"actually, the only thing this thread has proven is that finnagain loves his jump bridges. he manages to make a point to reply to every post that is for a change to jump bridges with arguments that can be directly applied right back at him.ccp, csm and many players agree that there needs to be a change. it is time to let this thread, that is nothing more than people debating back and forth, further entrenching each other into what they believe to be so called facts, die.i suggest we take this over to features and ideas section where we can talk about it."
"i'm sorry, but anyone who claims jump bridges don't reduce small scale pvp doesn't actually spend any time doing small scale pvp.the simple, easily understandable fact of the matter is that jb are designed to provide easy and safe alternative to stargate travel. that's pretty much a given. the vast majority of small scale pvp engagements happens either around a stargate or asteroid belt. therefore, reducing the traffic thru stargates would automatically reduce number of small pvp encounters.there are small scale objectives worth fighting for: i fight for sake of getting kills, which i find a fun thing to do. the main objective of the game is fun - not isk, not outpost holding, not moon holding - but fun.while large organizations need concrete game objectives to justify their existence, small scale entities, such as individuals and small groups of people, have \"pvp fun\" as their main objective.sure, not all people want to \"pvp for fun\", but quite a few do. and that's enough reason to start most of the small scale fighting that goes on all over eve - high sec, low sec, and 0.0"
"/signed - but some food for thought.anyone worried about \"ganking\".simple avoidance.don't be a 'tard, it's not hard.it works for internet spaceships, then it'll work for internet barbie.a word on cloning - i'm sure ccp might write in some story about some fancy new invention to go with wis whereby the cloning tech is now implanted into capsuleers skulls. the hows whys and wherefores are for them to decide, and arguing it here is like arguing about the what ifs of if whedon created another firefly show. either it'll happen, or it won't and there's not a damn thing you can do about it, so stop your whining.also - the broker.station security - high sec, is still high sec for a reason. also, see above rules.besides, in high-sec, you've either gotta be suicidal, or be banking on the other guy to be a 'tard to kill him/her.only a minute percentage actually cover the first role, and the second role usually plays on the exact people who irritate the hell out of everyone else anyway. kind of like darwinism at work or something.next, devil's advocate - stations are currently written as super protected, only super sneaky folks with some major plans, and major money can get through that stuff. it would be pretty screwed up for ccp to go bass ackwards on stuff they've already written. some idiot with a gun is probably going to get pounced on, just about anywhere on the average station. giving ccp a licence to completely re-write fiction is like asking a chimp to re-write the entire works of shakespeare in 5 hours. \"not good\". make this realistic, and force \"high sec\" gankers to jump through a ton of hoops to pull this off, like a real assassination/hit, and it might be worth considering. gta style killings should be reserved for low sec and below, like it is already with our spaceships.so... on the one hand, \"moar pvp\".on the other \"oh noes, i no like pvp!\" (seriously, call the waambulance).solution - a sizeable chunk of any given station is non-pvp. this gives people who don't wish to fight a choice of somewhere to go to not get shot. it also gives herds of 'tards a place to stay in safety. this place is for folks who want to play \"legal\" pilots, or whatever else. everyone here is given a white hat i guess...another chunk of \"gritty\" real estate is given over to pvp and/or combat related content/rp/missions for those who wish to pvp or play the kind of person who shoots guns, deals drugs, pimps hookers, or smuggles stuff, or whatever else your dirty little minds can concoct (including assassinations i guess). no fancy hats for these people, 'cept what they already chose to wear.ultimately, eve is about choice, and risk vs reward.both sides should be appeased, otherwise we run the risk of losing combatants, or targets, or whoever else from the community.if people start arguing for said choice to be removed, it's kind of like arguing that null-sec should be removed (or low sec) or that guns should be outlawed in-game, etc etc etc.freedom of choice is an important factor of this game, and taking it away is a quick route to finding yourself podded into a new clone by just about anyone in locking range. yes, even corp mates and fellow carebears. don't say i didn't warn you."
"1.0"
"agree, but maybe allow from 5-6'6\" with brutors being taller as thats one of their traits.edit:helps to check \"support\""
"some players want to have an opportunity to export the character in xml-file and import it, and i had an idea why it can be useful.for example, i want to create together with the friend or the girlfriend, characters - brothers twins with the same surname and then, it would be healthy to have possibility to load the same character."
"supported for more intelligent droney death!"
"no. no."
"i am strongly against requiring the use of a 3rd party data-mining and advertising-driven website just to tally voting on something that could be accomplished simply on ccp's own in-house website."
"1.0"
"apsidia, please make me a favor and stop smoking weed. nothing personal."
"i can't stop smoking, but i can give you a favor :]no problems, i just bump this topic in top of the thread)"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"interesting idea for a less stagnant 0.0."
"1.0"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"i do not support your proposal.however, i do support the idea that stations can be 'critically' broken, requiring another massive investment of resources (in some way proportional to the cost of building outposts) in order to once again become fully functional.when a station reaches this critically broken phase docking will take some amount of time to complete (no insta-dock) and would not be able to store additional items in the station, only remove existing items and repackage items.change of station ownership shall follow whatever the current scheme involves.it would add to the sandbox, allowing corporations to adopt a scorched earth approach if attackers are able to be repulsed, or do not have enough presence to control a system.repair of the outpost will follow the current mechanics of building an outpost, perhaps at a slightly discounted cost."
"i support this idea"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"^this"
"i totally support this. i'd even suggest adding a requirement that a supercapital be sacrificed to damage the station. bam. it's a twofer.just kidding about the supercarrier part (sort of)."
"1.0"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"+1 good idea.but i think there will be a little problem with future incarna.=("
"hey! raath worked hard on staticmapper and i worked hard on beta-testing it!yes, wh space is predictable, but it's a hell of alot less predictable than null. also, not supported because i like my cushy c1 pos farm with highsec exit."
"the answer to this one is simple. if you find that staticmapper makes your life in wh space too easy and you want the element of surprise back...... stop using staticmapper.forget i ever wrote it. this game is all about using our imaginations and make believe, so pretend the site doesn't exist and never use it again and hey presto! you have your element of surprise back!in all honesty though, before i wrote staticmapper, a-harm and ccres already had most of the systems mapped out. they knew where you all were and it really ticked them off when i went public with that site so all because a small minority of wh dwellers (i see the site statistics and page hits per day) find life a little too easy won't stop the big boys from having the upper advantage. if you want surprise and challenge, find which systems a-harm are inhabiting and drop a tower there. that'll present quite a lot of unknowns for you to deal with.there are still a lot of unknowns about wh space. it's impossible to map wh space because the destination is random but what you're asking also is a little crazy. imagine being a noob corp in a c1 then spawn a c6 exit and ccres pop through to say hello. if that's what you guys want then petition ccp to your little hearts out but i still think your crazy.leave alone is what i say."
"the point is not that staticmapper cause's it to be unpredictable, rather that the mechanics cause it to be unpredictable. staticmapper is just a result of those mechanics and opportunity. if you used a system like the one mentioned a few posts up then your chances of getting higher class wh's in lower class ones are weighted against it happening too often. if you make use of mass limits relative to the class of the hole that it's going to then people can't, for example, drop a carrier on a c1 pos... as amusing as it would be from time to time.if things were truely random then no, the big corps/alliances would not still have things mapped out, you can't map our randomness. you even stated that yourself. sometimes being a little crazy is a good thing, the world would be a boring place otherwise..."
"so stop using it. if you don't use the site, wh space won't be predictableok have you actually looked into the mass allowance for the static types? this is already a mechanic in the game. c1s only spawn statics allowing bcs ore smaller in. c3s/c4s nothing larger than an orca, c5s and above anything below super caps. you'll never get a carrier in a c1 unless you build it there, but there's nothing to stop a blob of bcs.that is one mindset, however i think folks are missing a massive pointer here. if the cryptic comments of the developers from other threads are anything to go by, there's a reason that ccp didn't add a random mechanic to the wh spawn. it would have been very easy for them to do it, but they didn't. now my reasoning is they did this for a reason, perhaps as part of the lore and background story regarding wh space. leads me to believe that these whs are not as \"random\" as some people suppose or would wish them to be. perhaps there's some intelligent reasoning behind the grouping of certain static types into regions and constellations? who are the sleepers? are whs really natural occuring events or was there something more behind them??wh space appears to be a massive puzzle and the assignment of the statics appears to be part of the key. my site helps to visualise the puzzle and perhaps one day someone will look at the region view and go \"ahah! there'a a pattern here!\".the devs have even said that they're waiting for us to progress the story along and find something and most folks who do crossword puzzles scribble notes in the margin. staticmapper is little more than a doodle on the side of the cosmic tabloid and i have a feeling that this is an intention of ccp that one of us create a search tool like it. why else did they not add a random mechanic to the spawn?"
"this suggestion has absolutely nothing to do with your site, so please don't act as if i insulted you or your work, because i didn't, it is useful and good to have with the current way wormholes work. not using staticmapper wouldn't change a thing, because the wormholes will still have the same statics as before, my home will still have the same exit wormholes every day."
"if you read what i said regarding mass in relation on one of the suggestions about weighted spawning it makes sense, assuming i'm talking about the current spawning is incorrect as were talking about ways it could be improved.i know very well how current mass limits work, however if you went around having *random* spawns to random classes then you would have to completely ensure that there would be no way on new eden that people could get things they should be able to into those lower class systems.if there's a reason for it then so be it, these are suggestions and nothing more.and as was said, i don't see why your acting like this is a personal attack on your site."
"i never thought for one moment that you were slating my site at all. but there's a reason why wh space is the way it is. if you look at the development blogs and other posts on the characteristics of wh space, there's cryptic comment after cryptic comment about why wh space operates as it does, but what you're proposing is that ccp forget about whatever future plans they have for w space and ignore what they've already put in place for us to \"discover\".unless we get an official ccp confirmation we're all left guessing but i still thing ccp did this for a planned purpose. i for one have always been excited about w space and can't wait to crack this nut and find out what juicy kernel ccp has in store for us."
"not supported.i suspect raath nambode is correct. i cite as supporting evidence for raath's point-of-view:"
"random connections would be a nerf to all w-space, people would find it harder to get in and out, and unable to rely on their connections for somewhere to pve or jump those doing pve, or even find people to pvp against who are used to the same level of gangs & effects.how do you think most people would take it if they get even a few days of only very high/low class holes with no route to restock, no anoms they can reasonably run, and corps with cap ships coming in to break their stuff?i'd say w-space could do with having a few more dynamics sprinkled about it, but they still won't form a much greater network unless people are scanning more than just static sigs and size 10s."
"every time a website can be built around a game feature that is billed as difficult, unknown, or just random, that game feature is not difficult, unknown, or random enough."
"raath is correct. wh's work as intended and if they aren't random enough for you, don't use the statics and just use the random exits when they present.very not supported."
"no.if you want unpredictable, move into a c6 wh and wait for aharm to find you. i guarantee you will have as much unpredictable as you can stand at that point.you will also be very glad you know how wh's work so you can gtfo when they reinforce all your towers with their dreadnought and carrier pairing.<3 you guys though!"
"all types of skill hardwirings added to first 5 slots"
"1. 3 colored buttons added to capacitor wheel, to enter and retain 3 different starbase forcefield passwords2. button added to capacitor wheel to disable engines"
"i like point 1. indifferent on #2 though."
"i'd be happy enough if the damn client would remember pos passwords over session changes. it can't be that hard.there already is a button on the cap wheel that sets speed to zero (or anything else you want it set to). there is also a keyboard shortcut."
"+1 for forcefield passwords, even if its only a button for 'put last used password back in'."
"change it so they just jam rrers instead of killing them. no gcc, dock or warp to unjam."
"sure, it's not like anything can tank concord anyway."
"concord is untankable now, so i don't see why this should still be kept."
"i died because my rr teammate shot me. justice?"
"i think that this proposal is a must as some people may wish to try and assist sansha incursion fleets by rr'ing. this is huge role playing hole for some people that want to help sansha but simply can't."
"i also would like to rr my fellow people while they gank freghters, this helps roleplaying and incursion.role on 100 man rr gangs outside jita 4/4 and perimiter gate."
"being able to rep npcs is way too open for griefing and should never be allowed.however the incursion fleets themselves really need to be able to repair each other without aggression spreading through rr. the poor pug groups will have it hard enough as it is in incursions, they don't need this added complication. it's crucial that griefers can't blow up someone else ship by getting themselves concorded."
"how will it affect \"public\" fleets?the only time it becomes a problem is when a logistics gets infected with a criminal counter, since you don't get flagged for shooting sansha there will be nothing to be concordokkened for.is there some hidden/secret mechanic that i am unaware of then please enlighten me, because as things are i see no problem."
"quite easy really; griefer takes cheap t1 frigate or cruiser and insures it for the maximum. he joins the fleet and waits to get rred, as soon as he is, he attacks a player ship (the rr ship itself for maximum lols). this equals player aggression, the aggression propagates to the rr ship, and concord arrives and blow them both up with the difference that the griefer lose maybe 100k isk and the rr pilot might lose around 150m isk.now this doesn't even have to be a griefer, it can be any noob that isn't used to the interface and thinks the rr ship attacks him. he shoots back and get them both concorded."
"this"
"i would like to suggest a modification to your proposal,in addition to your current proposal of removing concord aggression towards rr,cause any player taking damage from concord security immune to any and all repair effects. easiest way to do this is probably just give concord an ewar effect to concord security that reduces all repair effects on the target to zero.this way you are not affected until concord actually responds; starts shooting you.this will accommodate any future repair effects that may be implemented by ccp.this will not change current gameplay, as current concord \"tanking\" setups are ehp based."
"i don't see any need to do this. concord shoots you down because you are aiding a criminal. the only thing you need to is just give reps to people you know.not supported"
"and you want to open a massive can of high-/low-sec griefing worms out of the goodness of your heart? if it is possible to prevent gcc transfer to in incursion systems, then yes a good idea .. but that is not what the op asks for. exempting rr from concord will just make the neutral rr crap even worse."
"i think you're mixing your concepts, aggression transfer and neutral rr are separate issues.anyway the best idea i've seen this far was that all remote modules deactivate if the target change security status in a way that it can be dangerous to you. that way you have a choise: \"do i still want to repair this person now?\"if you really really want your rr ship concorded you can just begin again, but otherwise you can just lean back and let concord handle your problem."
"nope, not mixing it up. exempting rr from concord means that rr alts will swarm out in low-sec to repair pirates on gates/stations as sentries no longer fire on them .. would be especially insane on high-sec gates if rr could jump to safety as \"normal\".point is, ccp are obviously already making massive changes to systems affected by an incursion so should be possible to add an rr exception on top."
"because cooperating should be discouraged in an mmo?issue with concord jamming rr is that it gives other problems (how should it be done with gcc in low sec? there it is less relevant, but also happens) and doesnt solve problems (doing exactly the same but then by getting flagged to other players, which transfers via rr to the repairing ship).so the logical solution would be imo adding what is already present if you start rr'ing someone: you get a warning popup. so just add popups, seperately for repping a player who is flagged to other players and one for people with gcc. both you can disable if you want, but on default you get it, and it doesnt matter if you just start repping now or he gets flagged when you are repping."
"supported in principle.alternate proposal: if you are remote repairing someone who then commits a global criminal countdown act, then your remote repair modules are immediately shut off. you have to activate them on the same target, again, to continue providing assistance (and if you didn't suppress concord warnings, this will result in a confirmation dialog to appear)."
"yhis really"
"that is already possible to do and i can tell you it is fun to do ^^ altough never tried to do it in high sec only did it in 0.0"
"something must be done.+1"
"100% for moving all belts, including ice, into exploration sites.create a new classification of exploration site specific for these mining sites. this leaves actual grav sites in tact.these mining sites have a much stronger signature so they can be pinpointed fairly easily with low skillsnew probes & launchers specific for these mining sites. both come in a \"civilian\" flavor that require no skill and can fit on a frigate.belts should be reasonable size to reward corp mining without having to move every 10 minutesenough ice to support multiple groups mining (probably a single chunk or 2 would do). these belts \"melt\" after 6 hours but instantly respawn in the same solar system."
"dingdingding got news for you bots can scan down sigs and even run complexes. atleast the more advanced ones"
"i notice the latest patch has removed the option to eject from a pod.i ask you this... which is better? a quick death, air being sucked from lungs, or wandering the depths of a worm hole for eternity never to interact with ones fellow capsuleers again? what is one supposed to do when lost inside a wh in only a pod. sleepers and pos' do not target pods and as far as i know you cant crash into a moon?i have used the eject from a pod at least twice in order to wake up unharmed in my familiar surroundings in the domain region.best wishes, jim rayborg"
"you can still selfdestruct the pod"
"back to the top!!!"
"thnx you very much for one constructive \"no\"... this si soooo rare...and to macro users... try to be a little less obvious...and yea... you dont help the economy in any way... but if its helping you to think that... every criminal neads reason to be a criminal..."
"no. i don't live in a police state in rl and won't live in one in a game.no, i'm not a botter... but of course you'll say i am because obviously the only people that wouldn't want inconveniences added into their game are botters.botters make tons and tons of isk and live of plex... umm... where does the plex come from? they are generated from gtcs purchased out of game with real money... thus ccp is still getting paid."
"sorry but ccps profit is, for me, on the last place when it comes to botting...problem is that ore that i mine becouse of bots worth 2 to 3 times less...problem is that plex becouse of bots costs 1,5 to 2 times more...the problem is that i cant even mine that much ore becouse bots mine out belts before i come online...the problem is that when i kill them they just buy new ship and when they kill me i must earn for new ship...the problem is that they play the game and dont have to worry about isk, and i must calculate can i afford to play the game that way or i must wait to play it becouse i dont have isk for that ship or something...the problem is that they play the game only when its fun and i must to do less fun parts for longer time becouse of them....i dont say that mine proposal is the best... i only want that something is done about this problem...and if you are against this proposal... ok... but if some person is against all proposals... you know..."
"captchas to mine?seriously?i so stopped reading there."
"to whom it may concern,i am writing to call your attention to an accessibility feature long neglected in the world of eve and to the scanning ui in particular. i am a color blind individual and find it extremely difficult to perform the most basic functions in eve because of the extensive use of color and the lack of ability in the game to modify or customize that color. the scanning ui has always been difficult because of the red signatures blending into the dark backgrounds but i have managed largely because the icon was a red circle with a white ring. the recent changes to the ui have made it completely unusable. normally i simply try to get by in whatever way i can and have been largely successful even if at a disadvantage but this change has made entire sections of the game inaccessible to me. i realize that i am only one individual but know of many more that are in a similar situation to my own. the new scanning ui is much more difficult for even completely sighted individuals to use, much less myself. there is little excuse in these times not to have even the most rudimentary customization features to help those in my situation compete and enjoy your product on an equal level. i also realize that broad sweeping changes are not possible to implement quickly or sometimes at all but rolling back the scanning ui to its previous symbol set should be a relatively simple task. another possible solution to this issue would be to allow third party utilities to modify the ui in such a way as to make it usable. i understand this may not be a particularly implementable option but, it is there. if this is not the proper forum for this type of communication, please let me know the best individuals to contact in order to get this issue resolved quickly and with the minimum of trouble for all parties involved.thank you in advance for your time"
"please fix this."
"this needs supporting. come on ccp, what do you think you're doing?"
"fix this, and stop f*cking messing with my drop down menus."
"plz fix, this is ruining gate-based or any large scale pvp."
"gate camping is not pvpalso the game works better like this. not supported."
"so then, how are gate (nobody said anything about camping, but that is pvp, just like trading) fights not pvp?also, how is the game better like this? this improves nothing."
"you actually have to pay attention to the game instead of freezing overview and holding the cursor just below the last entry to insta target at the gate camp.that seems like a gameplay improvement to me. eve should be hard, i hear."
"not supported. the op uses \"kthnkx\" which just makes him look stupid and therefor his idea or proposal is stupid. that and it annoys me."
"haha, you really think people have tons of junk on their overview when camping? or fail to sort it properly so they can just click the first entry anyway?"
"dear own alliance terribad,kthnkx your terrible.2nd.although my compadre's like to gatecamp, i usually go around in frigates looking for honor bushido duels.also, seeing as though you know we gatecamp alot, your probably on a couple mails on our board. so you mad?being able to freeze the overview gives the player the ability to focus on a target he or she (read he) is attempting to find. be this on a gatecamp, be this your in a logistic cruiser or triage carrier and trying to find who the hell just broadcast for armor/shield/cap/hull. the ability also allows you to focus on a destination, like attempting to warp to a planet when eveuni, minmatar fw, gaylente fw, amarr fw, any sort of 0.0 alliance (like your terrible alliance) blobs you and your waiting to warp out your pod. btw, kthnkx.paging tailor swift for snipe."
"your an idiot"
"no, you are."
"yes, but does that mean it is supposed to be a twitching game, where you have to have very very fast eye to hand coordination, or a game where you're supposed to use your brains?focusing on the overview trying to catch the split second where the target stays at a certain location isn't what i'd expect from a game like eve when told it's \"hard\".that's something i'd more expect from a shooter.by your logic, shouldn't guns also not auto-target but be manually controlled?"
"1.0"
"i think th eissue isnt with gatecamps or small fights, teh real problem is when you have 176 targets and your trying to find khntdeathlord89 and he keeps jiggling up and down the target list due to warpoffs, warpins, distance changes or deaths...khntdeathlord89 is a fictional character and in no way represents or is an imitation of any person living or dead, andy resemblance to a person living or dead is entirely accidental. no khntdeathlord89s were hurt making this infomercial."
"+1 for the menus, pls for the love of god leave them alone!"
"freezable overview or else, ccp."
"1/10 for receiving some responses.hopefully this is a bug and will be patched quickly."
"yeah this needs to be fixed, it obviously is one of the many glitches that were introduced with the new patch, including overview and local standings issues, neutral coloring on overview, the toggle special overview bracket hotkey not working, ect.anyone who doesn't think this feature shouldn't be brought back obviously doesn't know anything about pvp and probably has a real ****ty pvp record. prove me wrong"
"supported!in large (20+) fleets , its a mess now to follow primaries"
"supported"
"thanks for the support guys, tell your friends and this might be fixed in 4 yearsunless another game designer is found to be smoken teh crackthen maybe a little later"
"the last and first time it happened was months ago. every station i warp to at 0 drops at a different range depending on what direction, if it is outside 500m it says setting course for docking perimeter at which point i would be vulnerable, which is *******s warp to 0 should be 0.you old ***s that had to fight without warp to 0, i couldn't care less about eve has moved on so should you, and i have just as much right to waste ccp's time as you do by replying pointlessly to this thread, so **** yourself you pompous ****.nope not mad i just think warp to 0 should mean warp to 0."
"i take it you don't know how to make all your dock attempts 100% secure."
"lol. what an incredibly ignorant reply. rife with profanity and not a touch of respect for those who have made this game better for you. you do realize that forum warriors have made suggestions that ccp have then taken up as fixes and improvements don't you? well from your imbecilic post i'm assuming not.now you're trying to follow in the same vein and suggest something that you feel should be fixed, which is all well and good, but then you go and act like a child, and an idiot.yes more precision in jumping may be a noble goal, but i would rather drill a hole through my foot than support you."
"nope, would you care to share with the rest of us that weren't born with your insight and built in perfect eve playing? no i don't expect you to share since you havn't alreadyif i wanted your opinion i would give to you."
"you sir, are just adorable. how long did it take for you to think up that catchy quip? nope, yeah you didn't think that tired useless reply up at all. i have no idea how to express how much fun it is to hate on you.and by the way, you have to be an idiot to get podded at a station by warping slightly outside of the docking radius. i'm not sure if you've heard of player owned structures? they're those shiny glowing orbs with a stick in them floating in space. you might want to try them out when a red is in system. but wait, we'd have to hear a whine thread about you not putting in the password and failing all over yourself.die quietly."
"i'm sure you'll figure it out for yourself eventually.i wouldn't wan't to hold your hand, considering what you've been doing with it."
"bookmarks, boooookmaaaaaarks, the mr says booooookmaaaaaaarks, let me try again: bokmarks."
"this was in high-sec. moan somewhere else, thanks for helping me legitimately keep this at the top of the 1st page, even if all i have only attracted is morons and trolls..post with your main instead of hiding with an alt and i might put some stock in your opinion, jk your an self important fool.not that smart, that's why i came on the forum and suggested it be fixed.thanks, not sure i like the idea of bookmarking every station in the entire eve universe that i'm ever likely to use, especially when i should be landing at 0 anyway."
"warp to 0 doesn't mean warp to 0 exactly.stop whining.edit. thought i would make this less trolly. the reason you don't land at 0 every time is the same reason that when you and a buddy warp to the same belt at 0 you don't end up inside each others ships."
"edit: fixedit should do what it says on the tin, otherwise it's pointless. i think it should be fixed so i posted here. i'm not whining no hint of emo at all, just morons trolling giving me the ********.understandable with a fleet warp don't see why it should do it without though.."
"i didnt mean with a fleet warp i meant in general.try it you undock and warp to a belt, then your mate does it see if you land in the same spots. obviously in the same ship types, if you do it in a bs and him in a frig you will always land in different positions due to the amount of time it takes to align."
"for reference on the current situation:every object has an imaginary \"outer boundary\" sphere around it (and so does your ship). the \"range\" between your ship and another object is the distance from the surface of your \"outer boundary\" sphere to the distance of the other object's \"outer boundary\" sphere. it'll become clear in a moment why this is relevant.when a group of ships are slowing down from warp towards the same destination, the game clumps them together randomly on a \"drop out of warp\" sphere about 2 kilometers in radius. the center of this sphere is then dropped exactly on the destination point, with the result that any ship on the \"drop out of warp\" sphere is about 2 kilometers off of that exact destination point.when you warp to zero on a station or stargate, the center of your \"drop out of warp\" sphere is placed exactly on the edge of the station's or stargate's \"outer boundary\" sphere. because you, yourself, are randomly placed somewhere on the \"drop out of warp\" sphere, you might land as far as 2 kilometers inside or 2 kilometers outside the station's or stargate's \"outer boundary sphere\". for stargates, this is generally irrelevant since jump requests are accepted at 2500 meters. for stations, however, docking requests are accepted at 250 meters; you can issue a docking request at 2.5 kilometers, but it won't be accepted until your ship gets within 250 meters. i've tested this personally.---i have no opinion on the proposal."
"this."
"my idea is to stop gate and station guns putting agro on to drones,i'm not talking about fighters just drones 2 reasons. 1: it takes damage off the ship/s that are attacking a ship.2: it takes dps off of drone ships especially gallente ones. its not like gates shoot defender missiles like the concord billboard dose."
"i reckon this is a great idea,"
"i support this idea. this is posted with an alt, but my main supports it too ;)"
"i agree gate guns shouldn't shoot drones because it takes focus off the aggressor"
"well it stops a lot of dps off of gal ships, as i don't see cal missiles get shot down why should drones get killed off ?, best thing it would only be a little patch to fix it :d"
"+"
"used to be that only the portraits showed up of people i bothered to check out (usually when they said/did something interesting). that way i could get to know them better, as i did not have to focus on 100+ other portraits (and the new ones look so bland/average too, making it even harder)."
"supported."
"ok just for humors sakethe same carrier fit with this set of lows1[chimera, 1]caldari navy power diagnostic systemdark blood capacitor power relaydark blood capacitor power relaydamage control ii2[chimera, 2]caldari navy power diagnostic systemcapacitor flux coil iicapacitor flux coil iidamage control ii3[chimera, 3]caldari navy power diagnostic systempower diagnostic system iipower diagnostic system iidamage control iiset these stats1)ehp 1,410,370unstable dps tank 5156capacitor time 19m 11scapacity time with 1 energy transfer too and from the carrier (1 pair of chimeras) 54% stable2)ehp 1,410,370unstable dps tank 6370capacitor time 10m28scapacity time with 1 energy transfer too and from the carrier (1 pair of chimeras) 40% stable3) ehp 1,492,563 unstable dps tank 6417capacitor time 12m3scapacity time with 1 energy transfer too and from the carrier (1 pair of chimeras) 42m 6swait ok soo assuming no carrier flys alone....why wouldnt you choice the still cap stable 1000 more dps tank?just saying though these arent my fits as i sold my chim when i got my wyvernfurthermorethere no effective counter to supers en masse in the support fleet at the moment this is why in another thread i proposed a t2 cruiser hull that like a stealth bomber fires missles larger than its class weapon, but unlike the bomber cannot cloak. the ship would be a paper tiger that is meant to counter capitals while being covered by a support fleet.i dubbed the idea the torpedo boat, though the basis for the idea originated in corp chat on ts.giving this ship a range of 70-80k effectively would make them immune to regular drones from a sc unless assigned. being a cruiser would make fighter bombers useless and fighters ok but not great.you would then bring the circle of pvp back around to the support fleet completely"
"i like how you didn't actually specify what it was. from everything i'm able to see, cap flux coils cuts your cap life by over 3x and greatly increases your susceptibility to neuts. furthermore, as you say, carriers don't tend to fly alone - and thus cap is life. cap flux coils give you less of it.i would also point out that faction fitting a carrier these days is pretty stupid... so its probably for the best you fly wyverns instead of chimeras these days.yes, i saw that. i pointed it out to my corpmates and we all had a good laugh at your expense. here are some comments towards your idea:- cruiser sized ships capable of meaningfully damaging supercaps will utterly obsolete all normal capitals - and potentially large portions of subcapitals.- cruiser sized ships incapable of meaninfully damaging normal capitals or other subcapitals will rarely be in position outside of preplanned supercapital ganks. they will be \"eft warrior\" counters.- creating \"supercapital killers\" that are for all intents and purposes immune to supercapitals is poor balancing.- requiring a significant number of these ships to down supercapitals is not any better than requiring a significant number of dreads.- we already require 5+ hics to tackle a supercarrier. this already doesn't scale - why do you believe that massed \"t2 torpedo cruisers\" would scale better?i don't believe that's what would actually happen... and frankly creating \"uber counters\" in such a way is poor balancing. i'd much rather see capitals - which are easily killed by supercapitals - able to provide a bite back in the form of tackle.-liang"
"supported.--- that is the concern, yes. an orca can only move an assembled battlecruiser, at most; the ship maintenance bay is too small for a battleship. but yes, an alt orca sits in the target system with a gank battlecruiser or smaller in the bay. a pirate jumps into the system in a pod, warps to the orca, and access the ship maintenance bay to get into the gankship, and then goes and finds a target.---it doesn't need to be that weak. suppose the interbus ship freighter can move 6 rigged battleships. give the interbus freighter enough hitpoints that at least 6 gankfit tech 1 battleships are needed to suicide gank an interbus freighter in 0.5 space. that way, if you're moving cheap ships around, it's not worth it to suicide gank you, but if you're moving marauders, black ops, or faction battleships around, then you become a juicy target."
"ccp, the players and the csm don't like massive ehp on the sov structures, forcing you to sit and shoot them for forever and a day. there is also a desire for some increased use of small-gang.proposal: on certain sovereignty structures (sbu, tcu, ihub perhaps) hp will be drastically nerfed and in return during vulnerability (including onlining?) there will be miniature reinforcement timers, randomly 10-30 minutes with a timer showing or 5-10 minutes with a hidden timer. they no longer have stupid amounts of ehp (change to say, 75k on an sbu with 3 mini-timers) but can't be insta-ninja-popped by a solo vaga either.smaller more mobile gangs who can get in, shoot and get out will now be possible, though not the sole solution. supercap dropping will no longer be the optimal way of dealing with these structures for obvious reasons, though still possible. blobbing won't be quite as favoured either as again, it's overkill.caps and supercaps will remain ideal for station shooting in addition to pos takedowns.this solution is not be the perfect fix to sov mechanics. many of us would still pefer multiple concurrent smaller targets spread across a constellation for example. however it could be introduced without a time consuming complete re-work of the sovereignty system, it should be relatively quick and easy to do code-wise and would in my opinion be a good step in the right direction. a viable stepping-stone."
"are you ****ing kidding me? thats something that a bot could easily overcome, not to mention the pain it would be to non bottersthis is a terrible solution"
"i think your grossly underestimating the complexity of bot programs. im still in favor of adding a recaptcha for the docking of mining barges. that way you don't kill afk mining. i don't think many miners will be in favor of your idea :/. of course i don't think miners will be in favor of any changes. ever.ill support it for ****s and giggles though."
"no. to the guy above me, it wouldn't be too hard to program the macro bots to keep the thing dead-center."
"to the guy above me. no duh, thats why i said hes underestimating bot programs. thats why i would rather recaptcha but that will happen in 50 years. i only support for ****s, ive seen worse suggestions."
"no!!this is quite annoying just to think about having to do it. then i remembered that i use up to 3 accounts mining at once"
"hey, at least i'm trying to come up with a solution instead of just complaining about the problem. you say that mining is boring and there isn't enough to do. 90% of botters use nothing but a simple key-stroke recording program that could in no way deal with my suggestion at all. it wouldn't solve the problem entirely but it would reduce it quite a bit and for all i know, everyone in this thread runs bots and fears something like this screwing things up for them.exactly what pain would it be to non-botters?! so you would actually have to pay attention to what your doing and stop rubbing one out while you afk mine. eve's already full of enough asshats that play the game while watching youtube and ****ing off. why even bother playing the game if you aren't actually going to participate in playing it?"
"bump"
"that is reasonable. supported."
"+1that is reasonable. supported."
"yes."
"i like this idea."
"supported!"
"speaks for itself. let it be so."
"this is an excellent plan."
"i'm beginning to doubt your commitment..."
"the csm may want to make ccp aware that we the player base find the wod tech demo, sorry, \"eve character creator\" jolly interesting, but we note you've removed all the eve 'character' (futuristic tattoos, metal bits, exotic costume) in favour of generic contemporary forgettable meh.well ok, it's one of ccp's famous 'first iterations'. no problem. but just a marker i think the csm can lay down here. noone is going to be the slightest bit impressed when ccp declare all the options we had before this week to be 'vanity' items and start microtrans for them.i can't believe your art department hasn't noticed the dramatic artistic shift from the exotic to the austere. making us pay again for something that was available as standard last week would not be cool."
"."
"ccp has already commented about this. tattoos and such were left out of this initial release due to time constraints but they claim to be working on them now. expect to see them in the summer release."
"not sure if this is a good place to request clarification, however it appears that the eula now states(or has always stated and i never knew)\"you may not obtain, attempt to obtain, use or attempt to use the login name or character name of anyone else.\"does this mean it is now a violation of the eula for corporations/alliances to request/require limited apis for all accounts an applicant owns?this will make vetting applicants for security purposes very difficult"
"no, its not a good place for clarification, this place is for suggesting improvements to ever,api keys aren't logins, and can't be used in any way to get the login. as long as someone doesn't have your login and password your account is safe.furthermore the api is in place so that people can share the information contained therein easily.also, in before thread move."
"if you want a clarification, file a petition so the gm's can address your question."
"we all know \"ccp\" would like to do two big addition's to the world of eve! but getting to the point of this topic would be, changes from idea of one addition from ccp new, and other addition maybe from csm, for additions purely from common eve player! so i'm asking if ccp would do their own addition, and one from csm of purly changes of the game!"
"has anyone really been far even as decided to use even go want to do look more like?"
"their are lots of ideas out their to be looked over and pass on but with ccp working on their own ideas. so point of this would be fact of ccp working only to change what common user or member would like to see changed. without other on going things...."
"almost forgot to support my idea!"
"this is true. however, training to do anything in eve is a commitment. new players do not have the know how or experience to know what they should or should not do, what they should train and what they will like or what they won't like. the permanent nature of the system does not allow for exploration or experimentation. this rigid nature makes it hard for new players to explore. if they were allowed one, penalized remap, they would be allowed to experience all of the races ships, not from a theorycrafting point of view, but from real experience and decide what they like and what they don't. when i know what they like, in the game right now they would just have a new million left over sp in some races ships they do not care to use and in weaponry that their ships won't support. getting one remap lets them get to the funner roles in combat that they decided they want to pursue."
"1.0"
"+1sounds pretty much what the other poster intended."
"said i would support it, and i do."
"dont support. live with your mistakes. i have mining 5 and the skills for an orca, its wasted sp as i have never used either but i live with it"
"he is speaking about new players, those who due to lack of knowing better train all over the place, and only later, after they have gotten a good grip on the game, realize they shouldnt have. there is nothing wrong with allowing them a once-and-once-only opportunity to correct that."
"the problem is that if, as you suggest, it gets applied to all characters currently in game (which is what i am reading) you're going to have older characters dumping a metric ton of skill points into the fotm.then they will whine and ***** when that gets nerfed and those skill points are \"useless\" and ask \"pretty please, just one more we swear!\"no, we're better off never letting that genie out of the bottle. there are plenty of resources for newer players. if they aren't clever enough to look for them, or are too lazy to ask in the available channels, that's really not our problem."
"the way i understood it, he meant within the first 6 months of a characters life (the op will have to clarify), it seems reasonable since the context of the post was new players. if it is so, then current characters, older than 6 months, would not be getting one. i believe this is the case, and that i and the op discussed it in another thread already (though i can't remember which one).if this is so, i do not believe it would be all too problematic, and very beneficial towards retaining new players.if it is not so (i.e. skill remaps for everyone), then i will retract my support for it."
"i am not talking about mistakes. you need to have know-how about the game to make mistakes. the problem is when new players join eve, they make a character knowing nothing about the game mechanics, the difference between races ships and weapon systems, and nothing about what they want to do in the game. the way the system is now, if they choose to experiment and fly all the ships available in eve, they basically get penalized when they realize that those sp spent exploring are completely worthless. most players specialize into a role or race of ships, often dual-training to get pirate ships. giving new characters a single use remap at a penalty will give them time to explore the game, decide what they want to do, and, when they've chosen a role to make their career, a refund of those exploratory points to help them get to where they want to be.this is precisely what i intend. there is a single, one-use remap at 50% penalty 6 months after the character is born. i intend the sp remap for new players only. then again, if ccp did implement something like this chances are they would give all players a single remap, even older characters. i suppose it is only fair. in this case, if some old-timer is really foolish enough to yank however many million sp out of their skills and apply 50% of those to the fotm ships(dramiels, drakes, daredevils), then they deserve every pain they get.for most people this would be a minor, minor boon, even for older players. for newer players, i believe this softens the blow of the learning curve and it would help with player retention, which, i think, is always a good thing."
"you shot yourself in the foot when you brought up a skill point loss from doing this, and to be honest 50% is... lets put it this way... you should be shot."
"it only applies to new players, not everyone."
"this law would seem to apply:"
"malcanis, please see my answer above, it would not help older players in the slightest."
"so.... a character that is 6 months old can remap their skill points, but will lose 3 months of them.i don't support this at all.1) it opens the door for \"you can remap under these conditions, so what's wrong with allowing _____\". 2) the player can simply spend 3 months training the actual skills they want.3) what % of the sp they remap will they realize, 6 more months down the road, that they put in the wrong skills."
"within the first 6 months, i agree +1. there is a lot to learn for new players and mistakes can be made when dealing with the learning curve. after 6 months you live with your mistakes."
"not sure what ccp was going for here, but now it is not only impossible to freeze the overview with ctrl, but now it's also impossible to take neutrals off the overview entirely.**** you ccp.i haven't found anyone who thinks that this makes any sense, let alone that it's an improvement over the old system. are you guys trying to remove small scale pvp entirely?i want my old overview back immediately."
"from the \"new character creator update\" insider blog as reported by ccp caedmon.i don't know how often they mean to give people the freedom to mess with their hair, but at least some repeatable customization is planned."
"since bloodlines no longer hold any sway on anything other than looks, with the new character maker, shouldnt we be given the option to change our bloodline so we can pick the look we want for our characters, rather than be stuck with a choice we made based on an old system?"
"i don't want to look like lucy liu..."
"yeah...but there's a 6 page thread about this same thing about 5-7 threads down."
"ohshi- you're rightheres the link"
"this would be a workable solution if you could mine several different resources at the same time, from the same extractor, with each head mining a different resource. the graphic could would show total units extracted with a heavier line between \"layers\" of different minerals.as it is you have to move heads, run program a, wait 24 hours, move the heads around and run program b ... back to the ol' click-fest."
"there are also loads of bugs - resource depletion rates are ridiculous- meaning moving and rebuilding colonies every 3-15 days. extractors don't route properly.nothing substantive in pi has been fixed/added although it is supposed to be high priority.could you please give someone a nudge and find out why. 1) they didn't respond to any of the considered feedback on the test server.2) haven't responded since the patch.3) have not committed to excellence with this release of pi (it is very buggy)the most annoying thing was lots of people got on the the test server weeks before - and tested it - and just had their comments ignored. the lack of information/feedback is really rude and frustrating.they were also warned days before of the mac patch problems and weeks before of the ss2 patch problems on the test server - but just ignored those reports too."
"not really. how often did you interact with it before? every 96 hours? so you set it up on one resource for 4 days, then you set it up with the other resource for 4 days. it's the same click-fest it was before, however now you have the option of setting it up for weeks on 1 resource, then setting it up for weeks on another, and while that means you won't be producing much for the first week, once you're set up you are golden, and you have wiggle room in case you are late and miss a day. honestly, don't turn pi into moon mining, a set up and go and forget about it thing till its time to extract your money. there's hardly any interaction in that at all, and it makes the whole thing boring./edit/:the biggest issue is mostly that the numbers they show you aren't 100% accurate."
"at the very least, dt should not be altering the state of the game, the reduction of a pos's shield by 50% due to downtime is simply unacceptable.the best fix i can come up with is to make the pos shield unaffected by a pulsar.the base intention of the starbase shield is to give defenders a reasonable time to respond to attackers, and as attackers get no damage bonus from a pulsar, i consider it balanced.it does make the starbase less effective at destroying players, but that's the intended mechanic of the pulsar in general.edit:in addition to this, i think the pos bubble shield should be unaffected by damage increases the wormhole might offer the players, i recall one giving a damage bonus to projectile weapons or some such.i see no reason to extend any exceptions in the wormhole mechanics to star-base structures, just the pos bubble shield."
"so your saying that there should be no ugly capsuleers? i completely agree, just like there are no ugly people in real life right? i mean what are they thinking putting ugly people in a game that is supposed to be \"realistic\"you can't honestly be serious about this. remember what one person thinks looks good another person might not. i'm pretty sure from the confidence of your post that you think your own avatar is pretty good looking right? well i for one don't think so. but that is all a matter of opinion, so no, no there should not be any \"verification of avatars\""
"you gott to be joking???you cant say that eve gott to be a game of only sexy hott gode lokking avatars??what if i whant to lokke like a slimy p****??thats my call"
"lol"
"i was thinking of it in relation to the walking in stations thing when it gets released.dont know how many of you would want to run into some of the avatars i have seen pics of.but seeing as most, if not all, of those bothering to respond to thread obviously wouldnt mind bumping into a couple of very odd looking darkhoodied ppl and still buy them drinks, well .. wonder if there's light on the other side .."
"unless i'm wrong i'm guessing you are referring to some amarr characters. all i can say is the old editor allowed that and, tbh from what i have seen under the hood, we are lucky we can't see the face"
"discussed with ccp, waiting to hear back on the development schedules but incarna has priority.discussed with ccp, waiting to hear back on the development schedules but incarna has priority.discussed with ccp, waiting to hear back on the development schedules but incarna has priority.discussed with ccp, waiting to hear back on the development schedules but incarna has priority.the discussion was along the lines of retaining cosplay models walking around (they never handed out anything) or reducing the price of drinks. there was more support to reduce the drinks prices but it is up to ccp to make the call.you are welcome."
"go play barbie. eve is about spaceships."
"nom"
"ever heard of \"data centres\"? you trade tags for standings so basically, a bribe."
"in high sec, i suggested only people that are visible on grid with you should be in your 'local' channel. could possible work for the whole game in my opinion.edit: of course a new intuitive directional scanning system would need to be introduced, but you get the idea."
"page 5 save."
"no"
"old one was awesome! current one just sux..."
"the only thing i don't like about the character creation process is the limiting of hair styles, clothing, etc. what if i want to rp a caldari hippy exile? it just doesn't make sense to limit those things. the other thing i don't like is the age restriction. as amarr/amarr i can only be old, which doesn't make any sense. i understand each race has it's own backstory and ideals but they shouldn't be imposed on everyone."
"supported because this issue needs fixing, but i don't think bloodline changes are the answer.i think ccp just needs to add more content over time, such as more varied hair styles and clothing, like they probably already have plans to do.however, what they may not be planning to do is increase the amount of variety within bloodlines. i don't think it would be a bad thing if it was possible to create 2 characters of the same race, different bloodlines and make them look completely identical. now i don't mean open up all options to all bloodlines, but a bit more overlap would allow people more options when they're being creative."
"suported! i have this exact problem"
"anymore support?"
"supported"
"no not supported at all."
"marlona sky for csm"
"i don't think \"crotch twitching\" is something that would be realistically noticeable in game unless it was overly exaggerated."
"ok, good, go. if the way others want to play in this sandbox hurts your feelings so much, then the community will be better off without you.also, can i haz your stuffs?"
"realistic wiggling of tissue layers is a good thing. boobs, beer belly, or whatever. if hair and clothes physics are in, do it all the way, at least.just stay as far away from doa as possible. do not want that. >_<edit: on that note, i distinctly remember beer bellies from a fanfest presentation years ago. whatever the hell happened to that, anyway?"
"suported!"
"vote for fapping"
"this is a good idea."
"bump. because we like it."
"the amarr approve."
"personal attack!"
"1.0"
"there's nothing you can do to keep someone from running unless they want to in the first place. a harb is going to have to get in point range anyway if he wants to engage, at which point you can use your greater speed to close the (gasp!) extra 10 km to get him. i know that must be hard for someone like you, but i'm sure your delicate self can get over there by the time he realizes he can't hit you without going into scram range. this is getting old, you keep trying to come up with more and more obscure scenarios to prove a point which you have to realize by now you can't make. anything can beat anything in the exact right circumstance, if your biggest complaint is that 'he can warp away,' then you obviously don't understand pvp enough to keep arguing about this.how about greater ranged weapons, how about more utility slots to use neuts, how about greater dps. gallente boats have to be able to catch minnie ships, because they have the worst range in the game. the only other option is to use rails and those have **** tracking and **** dps compared to acs, so you get kited by a ship that has to sacrifice nothing for its speed and can still hit farther than you. how do you not see that is wrong? and this isn't just about the myrm vs. hurricane, it's all the ships. if you want a more blatant example, take the thorax vs. the rupture.too bad the range difference is such that if a cane fits a td and a web/scram, he can still dictate range, he can still outrange your guns, and you cannot hold him there even if you do catch him. also, tds do nothing against drakes.this is the funniest part in your whole argument. i mean i have to admire your balls for putting it in here, as it clearly shows you're either totally ignorant, or just trolling me. anyone with eft can see that the bcs for each race have the same speed as their tier1 counterpart, and are affected by mass changes in exactly the same way. so whatever you say about the speed of the brutix compared to a cane has nothing to do with tiers as the myrm will have exactly the same stats. even better, a simple check reveals that the shield cane is a full 200m/s faster than the shield brutix. i have to wonder if you just didn't bother to check or if you actually expected a brutix to fit 2 nanos and a cane to fit none. either way it is profoundly wrong.if you actually flew gallente ships then you would know where i'm coming from, but judging by some of your responses, i have to wonder if you pvp at all."
"so you are basically saying that he has about a minute until your cane has moved into range? do you even realize how easy it is to just align out and warp as soon as you reveal your td?if your thorax cant outdamage a rupture, it is a horrible failfit.hahaha, you fail. the myrm can choose between dual tds or dual webs. good luck with range dictation chief.i bolded the important part. everyone with eft and a little common sense should know ships are not fitted equally, the cookie cutter shield brutix fits a speedmod by default, only the idiots fit a rcu and neutrons.the cookie cutter shield cane on the other hand fits no speed mods. if he does, he does not only trade a huge chunk of his damage/range, but more importantly fit for the specific purpose to kite you better.not that i expect someone that lives as a drone in the safety of the blob to even understand the finer points here..."
"besides the fact that you make seemingly un-founded jusdgement calls on other peoples character; i think you might have gotten your battlecruisers mixed up. when it comes to the myrmi, and the brutix; the myrmi is by far, the superior of the two vessels; just like the cyclone is the lesser, when compared to the cane. aside from pirates gate camping lowsec; how often do you really see, either used for pvp in low and null? not often would be my guess; and i can say honestly, i've almost never seen them. just because it has a tech ii variant or two; does not mean it is a tier 2 ship.a tech ii variant of the cane or myrmi; would really be something to see. either would put the tech ii brutix or cyclone to shame; especially as, the tech i versions, are nearly a match for those. obviously a superior fit command vessel, will win; but it does have superior stats.you seem to be very vocal, in opposition to this thread; which has me wondering about your intentions, and motives. your obvious dislike, and disregard for the op; might be clouding your judgement somewhat. it is very obvious to anyone that has flown gallente for any time, (or worked with those who have); that the gallente ships are lacking in many respects, and suffer in pvp. it's not a big difference, i'll agree; so little in fact, you have a hard time picking it up in eft. when you see them out on the battlefield however, or fly them there; you will soon come to the conclusion, that they are less than a match, when compared to other faction vessels. i have not done so much of either; and in fact, traded gallente for caldari early on. i've always found hybrid platforms to be sketchy at best; barely sufficient for the task, whatever it may be."
"not everyone lands 30-40km off when they land and start pvping. in fact, most gang pvp in low sec happens at gates. and again, this is hardly relevant, since if he warps off, he knows he can't win, hence understating the fact that the ship is effective.nice job avoiding what i said about the cane having utility slots and everything else. also, try fighting a ruppy with a thorax, see how far you get through his buffer before you pop.sorry you're the only one failing here. if the myrm goes dual tds he still doesn't have enough slots to hold the cane in place. if he goes dual webs, he can't keep the cane from kiting him. not to mention the neuts on the cane.except that brutix pilots know they can't match the tank of anything so they have to fit at least 2 or 3 damage mods, or they won't be able to outdps anything, combined with being slow, having much less tank, and having (still) terrible range. also the vast majority of shield canes i've seen have had some sort of speed mod fitted. we can keep doing this all day, but frankly it's just getting ridiculous, with you trying to find all these scenarios where minmatar ships are actually terrible at pvp and only their op speed keeps them alive atm. i think most of eve would disagree with you."
"keep in mind what i said about fittings on the thorax. the only reason it doesnt have adequate buffer in armor fit is its fitting restrictions. in shield fittings its actually an equal buffer, and a huge damage advantage for the thorax.but there is more than just brute damage to this matchup. the flight of ec-600s you can bring on the thorax have a 50% chance to get a jam on the rupture, and with the recall-attack trick they cycle roughly every 5 seconds. thats quite a bit better than the 30% chance a ecm loadout on the rupture can achieve.pretty much everyone that ever soloed in a cruiser knows what a huge advantage a 50m<U+FFFD> dronebay is for this reason.a single td forces your armor cane into scram range, or off the field. the buffer myrm is also 100% cap-independant, neuts are useless. and it has better damage projection inside engagement range even given both are tded.both cane and brutix (dc, triple magstab and overdrive in case you dont know how its fit) share the exact same tank in a shield configuration. and before you jump to conclusions, rf emp is exactly as good as cn antimatter against it.shield canes pretty much always fit neuts, if not they are fail. the standard lows that a decent pilot has are dc, triple gyro and dual te.sure the hurricane can sacrifice damage and range for kiting ability, but seriously you dont see a competent hurricane pilot flying these fits simply because it does sacrifice the main strength of the shield fit for a dubious advantage a single frigate tackler is gonna nullify.(on a side note, a brutix pilot should know its a terrible idea to fit an active rep, zero buffer and no cap injector on a ship that relies on cap for everything it does. if he does, i dont think he is a good authority on fittings and pvp in general tbh.)"
"a brutix pilot knows that he can't fit buffer because he's way too slow to apply dps to anyone. he also knows that he can't shield tank it and still apply dps because he needs a web, and a td to get in range, plus his mwd. he can't go gank with a cap injector because of fitting issues and the range of electrons, and the single rep is simply to keep him alive from drones once he gets under a bs's guns. a third magstab would add a paltry amount of dps, and buffer defeats the purpose of speed. if you want to try and make it sound like i failfit my brutixes, go ahead, i'm quite happy with my setup and i've got the kb to prove it. and by the way, no one i know who flies brutixes, even shield ones, fits an od on it, because you're still slow, and it takes away slots that can be used for range mods.as for the cane, considering half or more of the myrm's dps is in drones, even if the myrm is able to control range, which it can't unless it's pilot error, half it's dps can be blown away in a few seconds. the neuts may not kill the guns but they'll kill the tackle, the mwd, and any ewar once it gets down far enough. it also outdps's the myrm by a lot, and the whole point of the armor cane is to fight in scram range, why the hell would he want to be out of it. and finally, a cane doesn't have to sacrifice anything for kiting ability, it can kite everything as it is unless you went armor and you're fighting a shield ship.again, you can't get away from the fact that hybrid platforms need to be faster if they're going to keep the same range as they have now. otherwise they'll continue to be the redheaded step children of pvp."
"i agree that something needs to be done with gallente ships. i too agree with another poster that the lach and arazu both need damp boosts. it's ridiculous that you have to use a ton of damps on a ship just to keep safe- never mind the fact that if they even have one range booster, all the damps in the world won't help you if it's a cruiser or larger ship."
"it would be nice to fly my own race's ships, with hybrids, and an armor tank and not have to worry about being constantly out gunned."
"if you compare;[thorax, new setup 1]2xmagnetic field stabilizer iidamage control ii1600mm reinforced rolled tungsten plates ienergized adaptive nano membrane ii10mn microwarpdrive iwarp scrambler iistasis webifier ii5x heavy electron blaster ii, caldari navy antimatter charge m3x medium trimark armor pump iand[rupture, new setup 1]1600mm reinforced rolled tungsten plates idamage control iienergized adaptive nano membrane ii2x gyrostabilizer ii10mn microwarpdrive iwarp scrambler iistasis webifier ii4x 220mm vulcan autocannon ii, republic fleet emp m2x small energy neutralizer ii3x medium trimark armor pump i390 vs 348 dps 34.7k vs 33.8k ehpthings don't look too bad... but wait, the thorax is over 100 grid short, it can't even fit a full rack of lowest teir guns on max tank.1. increase grid on all blaster hulls to non lol levels.2. change all blaster hull bonus to damage / tracking, were appropriate stick the existing bonus on the hull, ie +mwd cap to just + cap on the base stats. blaster hulls then always have the best tracking.3. increase base hull speed. bcs are like 165/150/145/140 min/amarr/gal/cal. i don't mind mim being faster but amarr? wtf it should be something like 165/155/150/140 mim/gal/amarr/cal.4. + rep amount bonus changed to + rep & + recieved rr. otherwise the bonus is useless asoon as more then 3 shippies are involved.5. decrease siggy to lowest in class for blaster hulls, it makes sense.... you get close so same class weapons can hit aswell, you armour tank so your siggy dosen't get blown up.disclaimer, don't mess about with friggies though their fine apart from 4."
"i support this. for the love of god, boost us!"
"that rupture doesn't fit a full rack of cruiser sized mods either. your thorax would fit just fine if you dropped two guns down to light neutrons."
"so then it would do less gun damage then the ruppy? .... yes nothing wrong here move along."
"+1.not being able to repair yourself with your own drones always strike me as ridiculous."
"i always wondered why this wasn't possible..."
"you're quick to make claims about trolling; regarding comments that are worded carefully, and with some thought, aren't you. yet, you quite obviously misinterpret, and manipulate others words, to suit your argument; while trashing somebody elses, and making statements about their ignorance and knowledge of the subject in question.i think we can disregard anything you have to say; given the gross distortion of facts. i wonder what greyscale would say.. i would assume, he wouldn't be particularly happy about how you twist his words; based on what little representation he has, in the meeting minutes. i've read some of them, and scanned others; and i know what he didn't say."
"i haven't distorted a single fact, let alone greyscale's own words which are perfectly clear on the subject. if you actually believed i'd distorted anything, you could quote it. instead, you just went straight to an ad hom fallacy. trolling: i pointed out that my experience of how hours-long fleets work, especially wrt the nc, which you keep freaking about, is relevant. i've asked you to show anything that backs up your claims, as your posting on an alt troll account with no kills, and you still haven't given any proof. at all. trolling: pointing out that you're an alt troll with no fleet experience or facts is relevant to whether or not you have facts or experience of how fleets work. experience and knowledge is hardly an attack on your character instead of your understanding and factual support. \"you like the color blue, therefore your argument is wrong\" is an ad hom fallacy. \"you don't understand what you're talking about and you have no facts to back up your claims\", is not. lying and trolling: i have pointed out that actual numbers in terms of minutes/jumps saved, i have pointed out that i have hundreds of hours of experience with the fleets and the jump bridge network that you're freaking out about. trolling: i have made numerous points as part of my argument, from why altering game mechanics to curtail player-created political content is a dangerous precedent to the fact that there were massive coalitions before jb's and there will be after them, to the fact that force projection requires only dedication not bridges, and so on. you keep feigning ignorance and trolling on each point. like... trolling: you were lying and trolling and claimed that i'd said that jb's are \"insignificant\", so i shouldn't mind if they're changed. i pointed out that even if they really were insignificant to game play, that it's perfectly rational to oppose stupid things that have no impact on game play, like letting 5 year olds design our ship models. you immediately started trolling and have kept up, claiming that a direct response to your own point is somehow off topic. trolling: see above about your feigned objection to personal insults. you were also trolling earlier when you claimed that i was engaging in \"hypocrisy\", as well. i pointed out that i had experience of how things work to back up my claims and you didn't have any facts, or any experience, to back up yours. you claimed that was hypocritical, and pointing out that you had no facts and no experience to substantiate your claims was an \"ad hominem fallacy\". trolling and lying: that's the tangent that brought up your trolling of the \"five year olds shouldn't design our ships, either\" rebuttal. to say nothing of your trolling on that point as i've already listed other reasons why breaking sandbox play is the wrong thing to do, even if it was an \"insignificant\" change that was implemented in order to break sandbox play. trolling and lying: ccp never claimed that the bridges aren't working as intended. they have never claimed that they're an exploit. bridges were designed to let any blues with the password jump. that's exactly what they do. they're functioning as intended. the issue, that you're deliberately ignoring, is that greyscale wants to alter game mechanics to hurt player-created content that he doesn't like."
"this is simply fiction. or are you going to claim that \"fragment\" is totally different from \"break up\"?"
"so what you are saying is that large coalitions wouldnt exist without all the insentives ccp gives them to nap up?"
"rafia, i realized you were an alt, i didn't realize just how much. that's it. less than 48 hours old. so, yeah, identify what you actually know about fleet combat and what facts, if any, you have to support your position. and do it with your main."
"no offence finnagain but for someone who puts so much emphasis on stats and pvp knowledge... you seem to have very little of either:"
"no, seriously minigin, i've had enough of your trolling and i'm not going to feed you anymore. only an idiot reading along would believe that someone with a 48 hour character had pvp experience, or someone who's spent hundreds of hours in nc fleets doesn't know how nc fleets operate. if you want to troll for the idiots, that's your deal, but you'll have to troll on your own. hell, anybody who's not an idiot who clicks on the link you inexplicably provided will know that you're trolling and lying about my experience, too. no matter how you troll, people will always be free to play eve the way they want to. it's player created content and not minigin-dictated content. it's also not greyscale created content, which is why stupidly nerfing or eliminating jb's still won't change the fact that people will play the way they want to, not the way anybody else tells them to.deal with it. go away until you stop trolling. i'm more than willing to have an honest discussion with you in this forum if you'e capable of being honest and stopping trolling (and seriously, stop with your ****ing creepy invitations to your ts server), but you obviously only want to troll. stop trolling and discuss issues honestly, or at least go troll someone else."
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"even if this was a terrible idea i would support it out of trolling potential.good thing i like the idea./supported."
"well this thread's well and truly killed.looks like someone made the mistake of correlating a proposed mechanics change with nerfing the nc. cue trollagain zero, northern coalition forum defender extraordinaire."
"yeah, that'd be greyscale, who wants the change to hurt all coalitions troll. of course pointing that out becomes \"defending the nc\". does it even occur to you, while trolling, just how absurd it is to assume that people playing a sandbox game and cooperating with who they choose needs to be \"defended\" for playing the game how they want to? as you're trolling, i'll also point out that it was our 48 hour old alt-troll who decided that it was about the nc. i pointed out that the proposed changes fail on merit, utility and design philosphy. troll harder.oh, and tertiacero, thank you for trolling too. obviously you are correct, and someone playing eve for 48 hours would have a solid understanding of nullsec mechanics. yes."
"all ccp were saying is that change is proposed without any solution being ruled out? so do any and all possible changes fail in all respects? status quo only?also please, use the word 'troll' at least another half dozen times per post. it's good reading."
"no, that's fiction, again. what was actually said was that jb's being removed from the game was the proposal and it might actually be put through within the next three months. and, again: after you've just been corrected, why make the same error again? it's not about \"no solution being ruled out.\" it's about finding a way through game mechanics to try to stop player-created political content and force it to be created in a model that greyscale wants. the funny thing is that the trolls don't even seem to understand that, while they're supporting it because they see it as a way to hurt specific coalitions that they don't like, that it sets a precedent that can easily be used against them, later. that's the problem with changes to mechanics informed by wanting to **** over politics. that's the whole point of integrity. you don't have to worry if the next change that's designed to hurt someone's in-game political alliances is going to be targeted at you or not if you don't have any changes designed to hurt anybody's in-game political alliances. supporting a change designed to stop player-created content, because you think you'll get an advantage, simply leaves you vulnerable if caprice or chance leaves you on the chopping block next. if the next change is to ban all roleplaying alliances because people taking the fiction seriously makes eve look nutty, you'll have nothing to complain about. and if roleplayers are banned for roleplaying, maybe you'll be lucky enough to have someone troll you with \"status quo only?\"see, this is just obvious trolling, i wish folks would stop. i've pointed out that the precedent is a dangerous one that should be avoided. i've pointed out that getting rid of jb's won't actually have the desired effect as there were massive coalitions before there ever were jb's. i've pointed out that fleets can and do project force without jb's and the time savings for jb's, even on the longest routes, are insignificant compared to the massive battles that they're (sometimes) used to get people to. i've pointed out that massive invasions can be and are carried out without any significant jb use at all as alliances set up forward staging hq's, and that even defending coalitions with a full jb network can still be beaten on their home turf. and your response to that is \"well... so nothing at all should ever change, right?\" does that even make sense to you? and yes, the fact that you're trolling, and other people are trolling? that's good comedy, lowell!, and such. but how about you identify anything but trolling that gets you from \"these are all the reasons why this specific change, and the reasons it's been suggested, is a bad idea\" to \"okay, so nothing in eve should ever change, ever. not ever.\""
"finn, any and all game mechanic changes invariably affect someone's sandbox. by that line, any change would be impossible as long as someone opposes it. that's not how things work, man."
"oh quoting is it?ccp are only looking at complete removal as one possible solution. this thread has (had) moved on to the point where it was discussed as only one possible solution. since then you've come along shouting down everything with hurf blurf about how wrong it would be to remove jbs entirely, over and over.please, allow discussion to continue instead of redundantly whiteknighting about one possible idea which might make things difficult for you and your friends."
"yet again, no.there would be a series of objections to removing jb's based on mechanics if it was only a mechanics change. but since it's a change, specifically, to try to stop stop non-ccp approved player created content. so that's another factor against it. and again, it's a very dangerous precedent. and the people supporting it now will have nothing to fall back on if, next round of changes, ccp decides that they don't like how someone is playing the eve political game, and they try to stop them. the only difference between this change, designed to stop player-created content and having devs get into jove ships and drop on alliances they don't like, is that this is a bit less overt. it's a difference in scale, not in kind. and anybody who values their ability to play eve as a sandbox should be very wary of changes designed to limit that for political reasons. yes, even if they stand to benefit from this specific round of changes. during the actual discussion they noted that the option of removing jb's won't be discarded. by the writeup, however, the minutes clearly state that not only is it simply another option to consider, but that it might be implemented within the next 3 months. and notice the thread title? this is a thread to show the csm whether or not the playerbase supports removing jb's and how we want the csm to react to such plans. if you want to discuss how you'd like jb's to be changed, we have the features and ideas forum.yet again, it's other people who made this about the nc, not me. i've already pointed out that it won't make things particularly difficult to any great extent. i've also pointed out that since this is a change designed to stop player-created content and force it to adhere to ccp-approved content, that the precedent can then be applied to anybody, for any reason. you see it as a change that only effects certain alliances, who you're not a part of. but the fact is that i'm arguing that we should be protecting your interests, and your friends', and their friends', and every \"friend\" in eve since once ccp decides to start altering 0.0 player-created politics, the only guarantee is that the players will only be allowed to play a sandbox game and form pacts if ccp okays it. yes, even the trolls who see this solely as a way to hurt coalitions they don't like still deserve to be protected from ccp deciding that they don't like the player-created content that they're creating, and then trying to stop them by changing how the game itself works. and that's bad for everybody."
"well guess what, that is the downside of blueing ****, most alliances have some hostility to neighbouring allies and wont be affected by this, if you are blue to everything in 30 jumps atm then you may as well return to empire.ccp and the csm have agreed that the reason for the decision was to encourage neighbouring warfare, right now it is nc, drf, it and whatever the south is, thats not what ccp wanted 0.0 to be like.burn jump bridges, nerf supercaps and buff dreads, maybe then people will actually move out of empire to 0.0there is a reason why 0.0 isnt popular and it because the current mechanics and 'hand holding' makes it pointless to do anything there unless you are a pet or in providence."
"no, that's the downside that ccp wants to create. the largest invasion in eve's history just went on a few months ago and it was in the east all the way from the north. one poster, ironically, argued that it was the hardest to reach area in the entire game.too bad, then, that ccp aren't creating the content and it's a sandbox where the whole selling point is that 0.0 is all about player-created content, eh? again, just because you don't like the content that other players create does not mean it's valid for ccp to tell them \"you're sandboxing wrong!\" and again, while you're willing to support this change because it might hurt your political opponents in eve, that simply leaves you vulnerable and sets a precedent, and if the next change is designed to hurt how you play the game because that type of player-created content is now objectionable, you don't have a leg to stand on. funny, pandemic had excellent success with their subcap fleets time and time again against a vastly numerically superior opponent during november and much of december. it's a good thing that they didn't listen to talk about how impotent and powerless they were and how impossible it was to accomplish things in eve, and instead actually set about accomplishing ****. argue for how impossible it is for you to accomplish something and, gee, it turns out to be true. go figure."
"from the ancient history of a few pages back:so, stop trolling, and actually contribute to the thread please. if you have any plans of contributing, that is."
"mother of god...edit: try tell me that these changes wont increase the instances of pvp in 0.0. go on... tell me...also im sorry i never realised that someone ranked 20k in eve could have valid opinions about 0.0. from what you were saying.the biggest flaw in your argument is that none of it is real. how can i see this? through the blatant contradictions constantly cropping up. for example, you say that these proposed changes are specifically aimed at hurting coalitions, yet you then go on to say that these changes wont change anything for coalitions. have you even decided which is true? you then display a blatant lack of understanding of day to day gameplay deciding unilatteraly that jumpbridges are easy to attack and camp. (the reverse is true, its far too easy to defend these structures, and the best part is you dont really need to. if one is reinforced you go out there kill it and reanchor another for 9m isk.) camping jumpbridge poses is risky and unprofitable, disabling them is the same. just take it like a man... drawing this out is not going to win you more support its just going to lose you any credibility you may have still had."
"some examples regarding numbers of jumps compared to jump bridge network.1w-oks vale of the silent --> b-dbyq in cloud ringusing shortest route through empire: 29 jumpsusing nc jump bridge system: 19 jumpsgoing through nc alliance space via normal gates: 45 jumpsso basically it`s quicker to take the jumpbridge network then go straight through empire and high sec.and 45 jumps vs 19 jumps through the same area. dont come here and say that cutting away 26 jumps, more then half the number of jumps isnt wrong.source: nc jumpbridge network mapjump bridges are r e t a r d e d"
"massive dragon are you completely stupid? are you? it is very, very clear that finnagain zero has an absolutely exemplary pvp career with 1667 kills and 70 losses. this quite vast and obvious career which has been spent in 0.0 is being trolled by an ignorant idiot posting with an alt with absoloutely no history of pvp.massive dragon you really do need to stop trolling you are absolutely clueless."
"you just want to hurt large coalitions rabble rabble you are clearly jealous of how good they are and how bad you are. maybe you should learn to play the game instead of crying about it!!!"
"so, in reality, it's a savings of ten jumps. roughly a whole 10 minutes. maybe 15. maybe pilots even need to fly a shuttle through empire if their sec status is too low, and have an alt/buddy move a ship to a lowsec staging area for them near the end of that dreadful 29 jump deployment. definitely game breaking. see, that's the problem. he's obviously very passionate about the issues and he'd obviously like to discuss them, but i can't seem to get him to discuss the issue honestly. i point out that a 48 hour old char with no pvp experience can't speak as an authority about pvp, he claims that since i have fewer kills than him, my experience and knowledge from hundreds of hours of deployment relating to the coalition and jb network many people are specifically complaining about is invalid. i point out that according to the summit minutes themselves, removing jb's is designed to hurt coalitions, but i argue for why the actual impact would be negligible contrary to intents, he claims that intents that aren't born out by results is a \"contradiction\" in my reasoning not a flaw in the proposal. and so on. i'd love to have him actually support his position honestly, since for an issue as important as whether or not ccp should internationally alter game mechanics to control player-created content, someone as passionate as he is about the issue would make for a rousing discussion. instead he won't stop trolling. i don't get it."
"facepalm.jpg"
"jump bridges are working as intended. i am not keen with the idea that ccp may want to intervene and dictate to the players how to play their sandbox just because they dont like it."
"if its not such a big deal... what does it matter so much to you if it goes?its clear that the only thing you really want is for things to be as easy as possible for you. trying to paint this any other way is just sad."
"i like how people think roaming in 0.0 space will make things easier if jb's are removedlook at the facts95% of 0.0 residents are complete pants on head ******ed, there's no word to describe how bad they are, because they have everything handed to them, doesn't really need to think for them selves and being a bad isn't that harsh on you tooif you start making **** harder for them, then they might stop being so ******ed as they'll have to start thinking for them selvesso from that perspective, keep jb's, i'd rather fight a **** tonne of idiot bads and pawn rather than a bunch of goods"
"lmao what does this have to do with the actual argument? one could also argue that his alliance is good at exploiting the whole jb/cyno thing in order to hotdrop small fleets with their blob. and removing this system would obviously hurt them even though it might benefit the majority of players. thus, he has a strong incentive to be against such changes. <-- this however, has also nothing in common with the actual argument. casue one could make up tons of such meaningless arguments."
"while i appreciate that you think you know what ccps intentions are, i have a perfectly good set of ccp released notes that tells me this is not the case.the fact that you then believe this is a sandbox issue is somewhat frightening. i want you to think carefully about this next q/a. was eve a sandbox game before jumpbridges? was it a sandbox game after jumpbridges? will it be a sandbox game after jumpbridges are removed?in light of this i suggest you go look up what a sandbox game is.nb. a sandbox game does not mean i get to fit 9 turrets on my apoc because i feel like it."
"the point was that someone posting with a 48 hour old alt and no pvp history was making claims about pvp but refused to provide any facts to back it up. i pointed that out. minigin then decided to troll me by playing dumb, unfortunately the way he often trolls for some reason, and pretended that if someone with absolutely no pvp experience at all doesn't have an informed opinion, then someone with hundreds of hours dealing with the specific coalition and the specific jb network that several posters have complained about, also doesn't have an informed opinion. or look at his argument above. it's pointed out (yet again) that, as per ccp's own official minuts, the goal of the changes is to hurt coalitions and force them to tear themselves apart. that changing gameplay mechanics to stop player-created content is a violation of the sandbox is obvious. instead, mini pretends that the issue is simply jb's existing or being removed and that anybody has claimed that their simple existence (rather than removing them with the explicit statement that it's to stop sandbox play) makes the game a sandbox. or that fitting guns on a drake is the same thing as deliberately changing game mechanics explicitly to harm player-created content that you don't like. he knows it's not true, and makes no sense. it's obvious that he knows it's not true and it makes no sense. but he's trolling. it's a shame, as he obviously feels very, very strongly about it and an honest discussion with such a person would be a good thing.i have no idea how to get him to stop trolling. i've tried."
"this thread tl;drbawwwww remove jb'sbawwwww don't remove jb's"
"you really dont get it do you?you are reducing the numbers of jumps with 10, despite you are moving around empire in a space that would have taken 45 jumps if you went through normal gates.i`ll draw up another example where going through empire is not an option. and where leaving nc space would gain nothing if you travelled through normal gates.rg9 --> b-dbyq normal gates: 26 jumpsrg9 --> b-dbyq jump bridge : 13 jumpsrg9 --> umi normal gates : 26 jumpsrg9 --> umi jump bridge : 13 jumpsq3-bay --> ipay normal gates : 17 jumpsq3-bay --> ipay jump bridge : 5 jumpsneed more examples?"
"sit down on ts with me. you can record it if you like."
"irrelevant and obfuscatory. empire gates are \"normal\" gates. all you've described is two potential routes, perhaps one with a totally unimportant bit of additional effort for someone with low sec status, and one route is 10 jumps longer than the other (and allows dictor bubbles, bomber runs, hot drops...)it's rather obvious that you're trying to claim that people would have to move entirely through nullsec, even though that makes absolutely no sense at all, simply because that gives you a larger number to point to. well, ****, getting from m-o to hed- using only 0.0 would be pretty long, too. that's why people can take the shortest route. the devil you say, roughly 15 minutes saved in each case? obviously game breaking. edit: minigin, again, your uber-creepy proposal that i chat with you on teamspeak is a silly troll. we're here, in this forum, talking now. that you refuse to stop trolling unless we leave this forum makes no sense. stop trolling and we'll discuss the issue where we're already talking. again, we're talking here, now, in this forum. just honestly discuss the issue here rather than demanding to go to a different forum entirely. [tangent] i hope that people will stop trolling about how this isn't about the nc, since we've had what, a dozen posters now explicitly make this about the nc and nc jump bridges.[/tangent]"
"this is the problem with your argument.if you could fit 9 turrets on an apoc then this would need addressing since an apoc has 8 turret slots. i cant fit 9 turrets to my apoc because it only has 8 slots. i can however use this apoc with 8 slots to do pretty much whatever i choose to.jump bridges are being used for whatever use people see fit for them. now if jump bridges were being used to jump a titan to jita then this would need addressing. people can't to my knowledge use jump bridges to jump titans to jita 4-4 because they feel like it. there is no problem with jump bridges to my knowledge they are working as they were intended to be."
"and if they change apocs to only have 7 turrets?and finn, there is a big difference in 15 jumps or so, especially if you're not required to go anywhere more dangerous than a friendly deathstar pos the entire time."
"not having 9 gun apocs, or not having jumpbridges does not change this game from being a sandbox.and that is the problem. your knowledge is incomplete and at a different standard to other people. ccp has said that it is not working as intended, and that it is too easy. this is like having the discussion about the time they added stacking penalities to damage mods. sure rolling around in a maxed heat sink geddon was fun... sure it was your free choice to do this, it was however imballanced and not working as intended. thus it was nerfed and no one complained.this is really a very similar situation. you can cry till your heart is content that it is working as intended, but it is not. it is working how you want it to work. not as it was intended and certainly not in a manner which is providing the most ballance and fun.i think you should be applauding ccp that they are finaly encouraging more pvp in this game rather than taking away more and more consequences of pvp."
"thank you for stopping trolling, i appreciate it. you are, however, wrong. bomber gangs can and do absolutely annihilate fleets using jb networks, especially with something as simple as a cloaky dictor and scouts. to say nothing of hotdrops on jb's that have seen some truly massive kills over the years.the idea that jb's on deathstar pos's are somehow hard to attack is simply false. but as with all things in eve, if you argue for how impossible it is, you won't be able to do it. best not to get in the way of those who are out doing it, though. yep, that's honest truth that's being trolled on. jump bridges were designed to let anybody who's blue and has a password jump to where they're connected to. jb's do that. they're working as intended. there aren't any exploits with jb's or unintended functionality that's showing that they're not working as intended. even if ccp decided that apocs get 9 high slots and 9 turret hardpoints, and patched that into the game, that would then mean that now apocs were supposed to have 9 turret slots and were working as intended. the proposed change to jb's is more like saying that 8 gun artie-pocs are cheap and can put out roughly 11.5k alpha for suicide ganking, so you can still fit 8 guns but if you use your artie-poc to gank stuff in empire you're at risk of a ban. edit: i see that minigin is still trolling that having or not having jb's makes it a sandbox, and not removing them in order to hurt a specific type of player-created political content. maybe you'll have better luck to get him to stop trolling."
"that is the most ******ed analogy i have ever heard.it's more like ccp changing the apocs so they only have 7 turret slots and then you crying about it for 13 pages straight."
"i guess if ccp decided to remove jumpbridges from the game and patched that in it would be a mistake... because they wouldnt have intended for that change!!!how do you exist... seriously..."
"\"your knowledge is incomplete and at a different standard to other people\""
"yeah... i don't get it. minigin isn't stupid. i don't know why he pretends to be in order to troll.he knows that altering game mechanics in order to hurt player-created political content is a sandbox issue. he knows that jb's were designed to move blues with the right password, and they're doing exactly that. he knows that if ccp patches something or removes a function, then it changes and that's its new intended function. he's not confused about any of this, but he compares changing the intended function of something in eve with altering gameplay mechanics with the deliberate aim of hurting certain sandbox play. it's a shame. i really do wish he'd stop trolling, he's obviously got a lot of passion and a very strong point of view, and trolling is no help to anybody."
"what you are not taking into account are all the other bits and peices in the bigger picture.- if someone needs to log while on a roam, or are left behind for some reason. there is a big difference in travelling 13 jumps where 90+% of them are on jump bridges with a deathstar attached to it, and going through 26 normal gates, where every gate can potentially have a small gang waiting for him.- logistics. a scouted freighter will think twice before he jumps into a local with only 1 hostile in it. when that jump is done on a pos with deathstar, the risk is greatly reduced.- reinforcements. when you are fighting, and you get reinforcements within 10-15 minutes instead of 25-30 minutes. that usually has an impact. also when people looses a ship/or get podded and end up in whatever system he had his clone in, the chance of him coming back with a ship, alone, unscouted, through 26 gates, isnt very high. but through a jumpbridge network, that also cut`s the jumps in half, we are talking great success!!!- powerprojection, moving about. when it`s possible for people to move up 3x the distance in the same amount of time, the area you are able to controll/habitate greatly increases. when you also add that any hostility can be met with a great deal of numbers cause of jump bridges it doesnt excactly make it harder for you to controll the space. without jumpbridges, those reinforcements would have needed to go through normal gates, and possible be cought up fighting another small gang in their region. other would maybe be ganked on a gate casue they travelled alone without scout."
"you i like, a lot.the mins do actually discuss in part what you are talking about. any jb nerf would obviously be accompanied by a whole host of changes to the way capships jumped and how titan bridges worked, as well as most likely the introduction of new 0.0 entry points (so that it isnt living hell to try move things in and out of empire).as i see it these changes are not so much about hurting coalitions as they are about giving 0.0 more pvp.by default obviously this will make it harder for coalitions, but this does not make it \"hard\". they were fine before jumpbridges and they will be fine after. the fact that there will be more pvp should benefit all people not just people not in coalitions. whether it be defence or offence it is all more content. i think the problem with coalitions is that they tend to attract people who want easy mode and to never lose. any fear about these changes stems from fear of losing more because it isnt as easy to non-stop win / easy mode everything."
"every deathstar pos can, equally, have a gang on it waiting to gank returning stragglers. you've drawn a distinction without a differnce. a red in local in a jb system, especially if you're jumping a juicy target in like a freighter, is a very good indication of a potential hotdrop. honestly, pl has been carrying off this tactic highly successfully for quite some time now. again, argue strongly enough for your inability to do something and sure enough, you're proven right. but don't interrupt the people who are showing that they're able to do it. except it's not 10-15 versus 25-30. it's rallying a reinforcement fleet, making sure composition is correct, fc'ing it to the destination and coordinating it with the other fc's already on the field... it's an added 10-15 minutes to the rally time. and you're also carefully constructing your example to use the longest routes. if you save 4 or 6 jumps, that's also hardly a game changer in most battles. your other point is also wrong. as noted several times, jb's can be and are camped. especially if the enemy is halfway decent and wants to interdict your ability to move reinforcements to the front lines. many, many, many times over the years ive seen jb networks campedin order to stop the flow of reinforcements along them. you're also wrong in that there's generally no need for someone to travel \"alone\" and \"unscouted\". that's why players can cooperate with each other and form reinforcement fleets to caravan over rather than trickling in one by one to a battle in progress. disproven by the actual course of eve. again, one of the largest invasions in the history of eve, just carried out against the drone regions, was done largely by setting up forward staging zones well beyond jb networks. groups can project power just fine without jb's, just as they did before jb's were put into the game. additionally, having a jb network is a benefit that defenders are supposed to have, but hardly one that's insurmountable. in the above referenced drone invasion, for example, despite having an entire coalition and a jb network of their own, many strategic systems were lost including the gateways from vale of the silent and the forge. in point of fact, cva's jb network was part of what made hunting there so much fun and a large part of what made pvping in provi during cva's reign so much fun. for almost everybody who went there to hunt, jb's made pvp better. you are over-exaggerating the impact of jb's to make your point."
"the only person in this thread yet to address the issues is you. ive even opened my ts for you to come on and make it clear that you know what the issues are, and you have rejected this."
"minigin, your trolling is creepy and obvious. anything you can say over ts you can say here, in a thread that you're already posting in while refusing to participate honestly and trolling instead. you've already been caught lying by saying that i hadn't addressed the issues. to say nothing of the obviousness of your new lie, as several people have made the same exactly arguments i have. so it's physically impossible for me to be the \"only\" one who's done something, and again you are pretending to be stupid to troll. you know it's not true.again, you're not a stupid person. you know that there's no actual connection to someone not wanting to agree to your creepy offer to go talk to you on ts and their argument being wrong. you know that there's no actual reason why someone has to agree to your creepy offer to talk to you on your ts since you are already posting, in this thread, right here and right now, while demanding to go have the conversation we're having here... somewhere else.you're just pretending to be stupid in order to troll.now stop it, and stop trolling, and stop pretending to be stupid in order to annoy people, and post honestly in this thread.you're already posting here. you're not stupid (although why you pretend to be is beyond me). you obviously care very deeply about this issue and want to talk about it, but you refuse to not-troll anywhere but your own ts.why is this so hard? just post here and don't troll. it's hardly brain surgery. i'll most likely just go back to not responding to you until you stop trolling, no skin of my nose, but you seem really, really invested in challenging my arguments but bizarrely, refuse to actually do so in this thread. i've been asking you to honestly discuss the issue for some time now. go for it, seriously. i'm more than willing to agree to a truce if you just stop trolling. why is that so hard for you?"
"there is a number of reasons i prefer ts.1. it's far easier to explain things due to the live nature.2. it provides you with a faster means of discussion3. it is more efficent - the explanations are more pointed.4. should one of us not be taking it seriously its easier to tell.address:ts53.gameservers.com:9151also im not sure why it would be more creepy than hopping on any other voice coms for the first time... unless of course rzr doesnt do that sort of thing."
"then stop posting to this thread if you don't want to talk about something in text, asynchronously. i do, so i'm posting here. or if you do want to post about it in text, don't troll.come on. if you don't want to use text then just make that your last post and re-post your ts info and let those of us who do want to talk about it in text, keep doing so without trolling. or join in. again, you obviously feel strongly about it and have a point of view you'd like to share, and you're already here, posting, in text. so why not stop trolling?"
"double post, nvm"
"as i and other people in this thread have pointed out... closing your eyes and saying \"i cant see you, you arnt there\" is not the way to win an argument.its what you have consistently done.to summarise my views in this thread that havnt been trying to get you to answer questions:1. these changes are not taylor made to hurt coalitions, they are made to provide more pvp/content in 0.0.2. ccp is not happy with the way these mechanics work currently (and rightly so imo) you have shifted your argument from \"ha this wont change anything for coalitions\" to \"this is made specifically to kill off coalitions\" which to me seemed strange. but i may have missed something.neither of which btw is a good argument to not introduce such changes."
"i've asked you to stop trolling and post honestly, it's unfortunately that you're refusing. your two issues, whether or not the change is designed to alter player-created politics and whether or not the mechanic needs to change, are both subjectes i've posted extensively on in this thread. you are lying. your claim that i've shifted my argument is also a lie. i've pointed out that this wouldn't be the kind of change that people are claiming it will be and as such it wouldn't accomplish its intended goal, and i've pointed out that it's wrong for ccp to alter game mechanics to attempt to stop legitimate sandbox play so that only ccp-approved \"player-created\" content is allowed. you've again reverted to playing stupid in order to troll. you know full well that both things can be true, and can be argued for at the same time without contradiction or change. you know that, in fact, i have done so.ah well, i tried. really did. you refuse to stop trolling here and will only stop trolling on your ts. i wish, then, that you'd stop posting here, or at least stop trolling here, but it's not to be, it seems.my offer is still good by the way. if you stop trolling i'll be happy to have a discussion with you.but i'm not going to feed a troll. such is life. adios."
"well that isnt true, because i havnt been trolling. if you dont think these proposed changes will have the effect they are said to, what changes will they make and why? (i assume they will make some change in your mind as you are posting to stop this supposedly unforseen bad consequence of their removal.)"
"you have shifted your argument.first you were saying:now you are saying:with reference to the eve online wiki:"
"i guess you got me... saying \"this is not working a it was intended\" is completely over-riden by \"ccp is not happy with this\"damn it!also it is one thing to say \"ccp intended jumpbridges to save time\" which is true, and another thing to say \"ccp intended jumpbridges to make players less vulnerable while doing logistics or be sprawled litteraly all over the entirety of 0.0.\" which is most likely false.and the best part is either way, whether or not they are working as intended, (which they are not), this is not a reason not to remove them should the alternative be better."
"ok, and now imagine it would have decided at the same time to attack you from the west. what would nc have done? they would set the timers the way that the towers/stations/sov stuff don't come out of rf at the same time in east and west. they would first defend their assets in the east. and then use a titan bridge to bridge to the nearest jb and use then the jb network to transfer the entire blob to the west within minutes. finally, they would defend their assets against it with their entire blob. there is no need to devide the forces.but what would you do without titan bridges and jb? what if timer system would be changed (e.g. as i have proposed it above)? obviously, you would have to devide your blob in ordet to be able to protect all your assets. on top of that, it would be harder to motivate pilots who live really deep in 0.0 and have to travel 30j back and forth for every fight."
"so with your logic, only way to actually cut off the supply/reinforcement/travel is to camp a deathstar pos with a covert suicide cyno?and there is a very low chance of anyone camping a certain jump bridge in a hope of getting a straggler, compared to him running up against a roaming gang of a few people going through normal gates.who said it has to be a red one? it could be neutral. anything thats not blue to you. i`m not sure if you remember. but we where up there, shooting the nc in h-w. and from what we saw, travelling through gates was a very rare thing for the nc. 90% of the time you guys went through a gate, was when you had to jump over to a different jump bridge route.a roaming hostile gang will have problems finding targets when most of the targets go through jump bridges, and engaging them there will mean they will need to deal woth the tower as well.i`m not talking about fleets, i`m talking about small gangs. i mentioned 3 different routes, all of them cut the travel time with minimum 50%. if you optimize your routes from a-b you can cut even more. but i guess most of that are already done when it comes to connecting important strategic locations.i saw how you guys moved up north. people where trickling in one by one sometimes in small groups of 3 or more over the jump bridge network. it wasnt until the people got to the main staging area that stuff started getting organized. everything before that was like looking at lemmings crossing the road.if any hostile fleet is big anough to actually engage on a pos against a reeinforcement fleet, it would be much more effective to just shoot the bridge and move on to the next bridge.small scale camping works, but you cant engage on the pos for a long time, you get scrammed by the pos, webbed and shot at, on top of getting shot by the gang you are trying to kill. yes, it`s possible to do a hit and run with stealth bombers, but if the bubble isnt at the right place, or they run into the protection of the pos field it isnt much you can do. sure, but you had no way of defending you tech moons from pl at the same time did you? if you had jb network, it would have been much easier for you to fight on two fronts. cause there isnt much point in sitting idle waiting for the reinforcement timer is it?"
"there's no need for a hypothetical. pl actually did attack us from the west and the jb's and jump clones all proved insufficient, and we had to relocate to deal with pl, completely aborted our entire invasion and we quickly lost all of the gains we'd main. this despite having the jb network that many posters in this thread are very upset by."
"although your incompetance played a bigger part in your initial failure than anything else."
"no you didnt, you just stated that you had no jb network in the drone regions. ergo, you could not use your jb network to your advantage and go back and forth. this again forced you to stop your campaign in that region. and jump clones proved to be useless due to the 24 hour cooldown."
"was there any particular reason you cut out the reasonings on why ccp / csm want this, i did try to explain that ccp doesnt want 0.0 to be ruled by huge coalitions who are blue to everything within 30 jumps and they wanted to encourage local wars and make it harder to control more space.my comment about living in 0.0 was in regards to alliances with sovereignty, i am well aware of pls success but you cant possibly compare pl to every other non sov holding alliance.are you also aware that 2 members of the csm are in your coalition?the argument on here is stupid anyway, the op doesnt even give anything that we should support / unsupport :s and for the past several pages you have argued against a proposal that has only been discussed with no confirmation on if it will happen and how.now i understand ncs reluctance to remove jump bridges, but if your own coalition leader thinks its a good decision dont you think you should go argue with him? after all there was no one who disagreed with removing jump bridges completely.edit- seriously though wtf are we meant to be supporting / unsupporting"
"seriously, that's not \"according to my argument\" or \"with my logic\". that doesn't follow at all. and no. i've already mentioned several ways that both capital and sub-capital ships can be ganked on jb's quite easily. you also mentioned dealing with the pos itself, which is another option too. this is nonsensical. if you want a higher chance of ganks, camp more jb's. neutrals are counted as reds by any pilot with half a brain jumping into a system. besides, it's not as if pl hasn't been known to use alt scouts. yes, they offer a defensive advantage by design.pos's and mods can be dealt with, however. and why is it a problem that you have more trouble finding targets? why should ccp funnel people in front of your guns. it would be \"great for pvp\" if any time you logged in ccp teleported you to jove space to an arena where you were forced to fight another player. the point is that travel time is only part of the situation when raising reinforcement fleets. so it's not a question of 10-15 vs 25-30, but 30-45 vs 45-60, or what have you. this is especially negated if you have waves of reinforcements coming. but yes, bridges are supposed to provide something of an advantage in terms of time. why, exactly is that advantage bad? then during max ii did you see gank after gank after gank, including entire bs fleets obliterated by well timed bomber fleets camping our jb's, to the point where moving from m-o to umi- was damn near lethal on some days and moving by gate with a caravan was actually safer? and yes, that is another option. why does everything have to be a niche for small scale pvp? why can't there be a place for small scale pvp, and large scale pvp, and medium scale and... and if you like fighting in small roaming gangs, go find someone else who also likes fighting in small roaming gangs. otherwise all you're really talking about is ccp funneling targets into your gunsights so you can get ganks on gates. i fail to see the definitive gameplay benefit to that. with a well timed bomber run, ships slamming on the mwd to try to get back into the pos is absolutely ideal. nah, not really. h-w to lxq is 15 jumps with bridges 24 without. an extra 9-ish minutes isn't what kept us from dealing with pl, and saving that 9-ish minutes wouldn't have meant that we'd have fought a war on two fronts. ["
"unlike you ive actually camped jumpbridges...i can tell you it is boring as **** with little chance of catching people after the first 5 mins and very high risk."
"we don't have the jb network that many posters in this thread are upset about? that's been the whole point, people are claiming that jb's offer game breaking advantages, both on offense and defense, especially while deploying half way across the map. you're arguing both sides of the issue. the jb network we do have up saved us 9 jumps and about 50% of travel jumps. when you're making the argument, 10-15 minutes and 50% is a huge deal, when i am, suddenly those savings are inconsequential unless there's a jb network going all the way to the destination. oh, and minigin's trolling has reminded me. often when i've hunted on jb pos's we had the jb password (as pretty much everybody and their sister does for the nc these days). once in particular that let us use a medium sized (about 40 dudes) ahax fleet to camp a bridge in an enemy's main staging system for about an hour. we managed to aggro a jf before it logoffski'd but our prober had had to go just a few minutes before that due to wife aggro. that missed kill still annoys me. i don't remember exactly why, as this thread is moving pretty fast, but my best guess would be that because for that argument to work you have to accept that it's acceptable for ccp to deliberately alter game mechanics specifically to hurt certain player-created politics that they don't like. why not? pl's shown that it's possible. they're awesome at what they do and deserve respect for it. but they've also proven that it's possible to do what they do, since after all, they've done it. hrm? mynxee, mazz, dierdra, korvin, tea, meissa, trebor, sok. vuk, however, is. and even if true, that means that the supermajority of csm members aren't in the nc. and vuk wasn't at the summit, iirc. i'm not sure what you're getting at though. it doesn't matter if there's confirmation. the point is that the thread is to tell the csm whether or not we want them to try to support the elimination of jb's or oppose it. just because i'm in a coalition why should i let coalition leadership think for me? that makes no sense. besides, vuk fits damage control gang links to his damnation. all that means is that they made the wrong call. they're our elected officials, not my cerebellum ;) do we want the csm to support or oppose the removal of jb's from the game."
"in that case, i support the removal or alteration to jumpbridges on the grounds that 0.0 has become a coalition joke and making it harder for one coalition to maintain several hundred moons will encourage alliances to reduce in size.conflict will change from 'lets attack the opposite end of the map' to lets focus on whats good / bad in local areas, alliances will be able to work with their own territory rather than what the powerblock is doing.i am a huge fan of smaller wars and increased activity, while it would take alot more than jump bridge changes to fix 0.0 i support the change and hope it happens in the next expansion.btw i use damage control ii on my damnation too"
"if they do this they'll have to look at cyno ranges as well. but the pros outweigh the consit'll cut down on empire bloat. make space \"big\" again. reduce blob mobility (and therefore formup size). it'll help small alliances because it'll always be easier to get a home defense fleet up than convince a bunch of people to go 30+ jumps to curb stomp people they don't know. and make 0.0 worry about industry again, rather than just ferrying things in from jita."
"the evidence falsified that claim, however. before jb's coalitions still went to war with each other on different sides of the map, and there were still large coalitions. okay. you are a fan of smaller wars and such, some people are fans of larger wars. why should ccp decide that one, or for that matter, the other viewpoint is the right one and try to alter game mechanics to help or hurt player-created content of the 'wrong' sort? shouldn't the players, who are creating the player-created content, get to decide how it's created? not a damage control module, the damage control ganglink. it's the third armor link and absolutely useless (lots of people never actually read its description). in anything but an rr bs fleet, the bonus goes utterly wasted. vuk is a good guy, but the point is that even good, smart people sometimes make mistakes."
"ccp will invariably \"chose\" what is and what is not.however it is my belief that should napalitions be scaled down because of these changes, it is not because ccp decided it be that way, but because players decided they dont want to stay blue to each other if they dont have the insentives of jumpbridges.such a thing is your choice. not ccps. so using this as an example of ccp taking away your choice is pretty silly. if anything they are giving all players more choice. you will still have the option to retain your entire naplist now, there will just be a set of different consequences for doing so.also in line with this, saying that people have a right to chose this large scale style is completely valid and unchanged by these proposed changes."
"with several, you mean bomber gang or a blob? just because your in an alliance doesnt mean you should be immune to small gangs. just saying.who said i was after ganks? i would be happy to get a fight. but as it is now it`s impossible. either you run to the jumpbridge under the cover of scrambler, webs and pos guns, or you just dont fight at all without having a numerical advantage. hell, we had problems getting a fight out of you when we where in h-w and you had over 600 in local.... takes like 10 min to fix that. not an option. and any small group trying to incap a pos in nc homespace is asking to get blobbed/lagged out.i hardly roam. and i`m not saying that ccp needs to funnel targets infront of our guns. i`m saying that logistics in 0.0 needs to be more then just getting past the lowsec/0.0 point and jump on the jump bridge train. cause it makes it possible to travel in 0.0 with no scouts without hardly any risk. and your stealth bomb gangs of doom are ******ed if they spring the trap on lone travelers when what they really want is a freighter or a bigger gang. and you cant stay and fight with a stealth bomber gang. they will pop left and right. i`m not saying it has to be small gang niche. but with all your arguments you are bringing up, it seems like you feel you should be immune to any small gangs comming to your space.as it is now, most alliances doesnt care or wont lift a finger if there is a small gang comming through their space. simply cause it has no effect.every camp or roaming gang can be bypassed by a jump bridge. still not getting it, are you?15 jumps through a jump bridge network is a big difference compared to 24 jumps through 0.0 space, specially when some of it is in a hostile region. maybe not when you are in a fleet. but for every straggler or smaler group comming to it or going back to h-w.- if you are saying it doesnt affect your travel time, then you would have no issues in them getting nerfed or removed, would you?- also, if moving by the means of a jump bridge network is the same risk as moving through gates you shouldnt really have any issues there as well."
"bombers, driveby snipers, armor hac fleets, other fleets that have the password, capital fleets... and whoever said that alliances should be \"immune\" to small gangs? certainly not me. you were complaining that lone pilots have a better chance of getting ganked on a gate than a bridge. now it seems it's not about that, either. what exactly is the problem then? it takes 10 minutes to fix a pos that's put into reinforced? and dropping caps on a pos to rep it make them ideal targets, especially if they're triage carriers. if you can't rally sufficient forces to reinforce a pos or defang it without being countered, why is that a problem? if i attack two battleships and i'm in an omen, are you really saying that battleships should be \"invulnerable\" just because i can't gank them? so the defenders can bring more than you can attack with. that is unfair and bad, why? if i was in a five man corp, should you be prohibited from responding with six people if i attack you? except it's not hardly any risk as long as you have a competent enemy. and if bomber ganks reveal themselves and you know that a bridge is hot, either you use it and risk dying or it dosn't get used and, viola, successful interdiction of forces' mobility. i've never said anything like that. of course it will be more difficult for a small force to counter a large force if they're not on their game, but there's no problem with that any more than it is that if i bring out one battleship and you bring out two, you'll probably kill me instead of me killing you. you're trying to have your cake and eat it too, again. 9 fewer jumps are a big deal, they make a lot of difference, they're very important. and yet the nc had to return home and the jb network didn't prevent us being unable to fight a war on two fronts. but then 9 fewer jumps doesn't matter and can be ignored. when your argument needs it, 9 jumps are important. when it doesn't, they're not. come on, this same stuff has been posted and debunked again and again. it has an impact, it does not have a game breaking impact. even if it didn't have an impact on gameplay, that doesn't mean a change is for the good. i do not want my ship models replaced by crayon drawings from a five year old. i never said that, either. of course the risk is different, but it's hardly risk free and you can still get made dead. i, in fact, have specifically argued that granting a defensive bonus as a benefit to ownership and holding sov is fair and reasonable."
"i believe the minutes stated greyscales words as \"sweet\", which could any number of things; which is a long way from your interpretted drama child. unless you have some secret ear in the csm, or are an alt of one; then i don't see how you could know exactly what he did say.directly quoted from the minutes, for your pleasure:perhap's you should read them again; when you're not drunk, stoned, or whatever."
"yes. if he's said \"awesome\" it would have been even less clear. of course, the relevant bit is the one i've posted several times already, the bit about how the change was going to potentially make coalitions \"fragment\" and tear themselves apart. oh, trolling, that's novel. and unexpected! yet again: i appreciate you being so angry when you're wrong."
"so basically ccp wants to nerf how easy it is to maintain a super coalition. csm agreed that it needed to be done. jump bridges were mentioned. cue rage about how unfair it is that someone wants to try to encourage more pvp in a pvp game.honestly though i can't believe that you honestly believe the **** that you're typing right now. you're making your whole aliance look bad right now if you're a troll then 10/10...if not then you just got a perfect score on the standard plague black common scale of derp."
"i support finnagainzero's quest to remove jump bridges and fight all those who plan to keep them in the game as they are cowardly and dishonourable"
"ccp wants to nerf how easy it is to maintain a super coalition? they probably do they really are that stupid. csm agreed that it needed to be done? what the hell do the csm think they are doing? there is no way that can be representative of the super coalitions.cue rage about how unfair it is that someone wants to try to encourage more pvp in a pvp game? what the hell are you talking about? that is the stupidest thing i have heard. how completely ridiculous. the rage is for someone trying to nerf jump bridges.it is you tertiacero that is making your alliance look bad."
"see the long discussion on why altering game mechanics to penalize or reward player-created content is a bad precedent and the wrong move. the ability to maintain a coalition should be based on whether or not players can work together, not whether or not ccp can try to frustrate that ability. if people weren't cooperating, nobody would be as upset about jb's, they'd be as happy with them as everybody was to hunt providence under cva because you always knew that cva could bring a fight through their jb network if they wanted. that shows that the problem isn't with jb's, at all, but it's a back door method to try to screw with players creating a political landscape in eve that some don't like. your position is also hypocritical. you're fine with ccp wanting to \"nerf how easy it is to maintain a super coalition\". but your position has no support, it's just your personal preference. you have absolutely no room to complain if, instead, ccp wanted to \"nerf how easy it is to maintain a small alliance.\" you like small alliances, others like large scale pvp. neither is right, or wrong, and there's more than enough room for both in the game. but you want your personal preferences imposed on others. again, it's a very dangerous precedent. if ccp deliberately alters game mechanics to hurt player created content that they don't like today, tomorrow if they decide to target you not only do you not have a leg to stand on, but you will have already voiced your support by endorsing the basic premise that ccp is free to break sandbox play if they don't like how the players are creating their player-created content. i've asked you several times to stop trolling. now would be a good time. \"encouraging pvp\" is a nonsense phrase anyway, jabberwockian but protean enough to mean whatever you want it to mean. mandatory teleportation upon login to an arena in jove space where you have to fight it out with another pilot? that, too, would see a lot more pvp. giving everybody free ships and no loot drops and death only results in \"res sickness\" would also encourage more pvp. simply claiming that you're trying to encourage pvp is meaningless. besides which, you are ignoring the fact that it's player created content. people will cooperate and fight as they see fit. if that annoys you, that's too bad. you can't claim it's a pvp sandbox game and then get angry that people are pvping and cooperating with who they want to, when and where, rather than who you'd want them to if you could control them like a puppet. i'm sure there are some fans of solo combat who are annoyed that you guys fly around in awful blobs (maybe even with six or seven guys in a fleet!!!). maybe the next change should be to eliminate alliances and corps too. after all, those who love solo pvp don't like getting \"blobbed\" by your small gang pvp. your possible defense of 'but that's how i choose to play the game and who i choose to cooperate with, and this is a sandbox' has already been removed. by your own rhetoric. oh, and:mem, i understand that you're responding to some silly trolling, but don't respond in kind. people's actions only reflect on the people making them. blaming groups for individuals' behavior is the basis for most of the prejudice that we see, and it's simply a logical fallacy. he's just trying to troll me and get me annoyed. it's not working. let him troll about how someone with an alliance ticker automatically represents their entire alliance with everything they say. don't lower yourself to the same level, though."
"you are making this alliance look terrible and full of ignorant terrible posters with no idea about game play. you are doing the polar opposite to what finnagainzero is doing here. you should learn from him."
"finagain seems terrified of jb nerf...as he should be since nc is going to get it ballsdeep once nerf arrives."
"only way to kill someone then would be that people where jumping blindly through the jumpbridge. and by your earlier argument that would be very slim.if one red in local is a good indication, i wonder what a drive by sniper gang is, or a hac fleet or whatever.wrong, i`m complaining about the ease of travelling through jump bridges vs normal gates. if someone looses their ship, or get podded back, if he can come back via jumpbridges there is a high probability he will. if he need to go through a bunch of normal gates and happens to be a hostile small gang roaming around nearby, he would need to think twice before moving about. i think we are talking past eachother here. who will go to a incapped pos for protection, and if i`m not mistaken, a reinforced pos dont have a working jump bridge.the 10 minutes i was refering to was the jump bridge itself.wow, so from having single ganks/fights on the gates we need to reinforce pos`s to stop people moving through the jump bridge network? you know what kinda manpower and ships are needed then right? not what i`m refeering to, and you know it. we fight outnumbered plenty of times. it`s the need for a fleet/gang that can counter a deathstar pos to even have a shot at killing a lone traveller.not much, since jumpbridges can be rerouted, new one can be put up, or just take a different jump bridge network.10 jumps through a jump bridge network is quite different then 10 jumps through normal gates. i would be happy if the jump bridges where moved away from the \"safety\" of deathstar pos."
"can you guys continue this drama somewhere else, it now shows 400 replies and 25 supports when really theres only about 40+ postersshame really but if you want to ***** about csm go to jita forums"
"you're reading to deeply into the meeting minutes, with a bias to their content, i think; which should be obvious to anyone who reads the quote you just threw up there.here's a few more quotes from you:thats a fairly exaggerated, from what the actual meeting minutes state occured; and this is what i was leading to, from my earlier post. you make broad claims, of fictitious staements; made by ccp greyscale during the meeting that took place. nowhere in the minutes; does it indicate he said anything of the sort. it does indicate, that he is attempting to gain support; for ccp to proceed to make plans, to adjust the effects of various game mechanics on 0.0 life. i see from your posts, that you obviously have experience regarding the subject; but, i doubt the arguments you press forward, are made with a clear mind. you don't really have to be drunk or stoned; to make overdramatic claims of grand conspiricies by ccp and csm. the topic of jump bridges wasn't even--directly--brought forth by ccp; and instead, was simply pitched in at the end, by a csm delegate. inferential comprehension. a way of indirectly determining the value of a statement; based on the context of the discussion, in which it was made.\"sweet\" - awesome, so we have free reign to make any changes as we see neccessary; based on our judgment, and perception of the best way to change a given situation.the situation: excessive blobbing proliferated by easy mobility of alliances through 0.0 space.the solution: reduce mobility.nowhere did it say, that they were going to completely destroy coalitions, or prevent sandbox play; only that any changes will have consequences, and will impact gameplay for everyone involved."
"not at all. jumping with a scout hardly saves a fleet from being bubbled and/or bombed. dealing with a competent bomber gang camping a jb is difficult, and they serve as very effective area denial. your question isn't clear. one red/neut in local is a good indicator, especially if you have valuable cargo/a valuable ship, that you may be walking into a hot drop trap. as for a driveby sniper gang, it's exactly what it sounds like. nanopocs work well, hac's, whatever. generally as long as you get the vectors right, don't hit your mwd's and have your **** together, you can volley someone quite quickly. as for what hac gangs are, i don't understand you confusion at all. you just put \"wrong,\" right before saying exactly what i said you were saying. exactly, you can disable their functionality entirely if you want. the dynamic is exactly the same, whether it's an omen versus two pulse armageddons or a small group of people versus a defended pos. again, you deny what i'm saying is accurate (this time claiming that i know it to be inaccurate) before repeating the same thing. if the defenders have more defenses in the form of a pos than you can bring to gank those lone travelers, why is that any more of a problem than a five man corp trying to take burn eden on alone? what, specifically, is the problem? so they need to bring in a fleet to rep up a pos mod, or you can camp both forks of a jump bridge network. again, it's not difficult at all. during max ii we often had jb's camped along multiple routes and/or incapped and we had to wait until we could muster sufficient forces to rep them or to destroy them and anchor new ones. the fact still remains that you're claiming that nine extra jumps meant that there was \"no way of defending\". it's not like those nine jumps were crushing or fleets didn't take the gate route quite frequently going back and forth."
"fact.cited, and quoted, above. he doesn't like coalitions and thinks that small alliances should be independent even if the political realities of player-created content would normally mean that they'd face too much opposition. that they're looking for ways to tweak mechanics in order to achieve those political results is exactly the point. strangely i was able to quote, them.evidently i can quote things that don't exist, i am good."
"we can be arguing until the server shuts down, we still wont come closer to an \"conclusion\" or \"agrement\".until ccp actually do something this is where we stand today:- ccp feels the logistics are to easy.- ccp are thinking on different ways of dealing with jump bridges, where removing them completely are one of them. if jump bridges will be removed are yet to be seen, but that there are coming a change is no secret or if`s and but`s, it`s when.it will be fun to se what ccp comes up with"
"this is astonishing. a member of ccp wants to \"increase friction\" if you said anything like that in customer service about any of your customers you would be fired."
"basically we got a clash of ideologies here: carebears vs hardcore pvpcarebears want to keep jump bridges,hardcore pvpers want to nerf themarguing over the issue is about as pointless as arguing over religion or politics - no matter how hard you try, you will never convince your opposite.therefore, realizing that, the best thing to do is to present your arguments as clearly as possible, once, and not get drawn into pointless debates that serve no other purpose than to confuse the issue and discredit the people involved. (tho i suppose the opposition may view this as valid stalling tactic to prevent action)"
"right now a rail ship is a fail ship. even if this particular fix doesn't pan out at least we can make the csm look at hybrid turrets again.also why can't i do em or explosive damage? hybrid ammo is all good and fine if i am shooting at serpentis but we are right hosed on a roam."
"not supported. it is not a problem, but a symptom of older changes made to the game. fixing symptons will only create new symptons. if every new change requires patchwork like the one suggested here, then the races will continue to see changes and lose their distinction, because the changes are motivated only by other changes, and the entire game will lose its variety, complexity and character. races need to have a clear distinction in order for new players to pick the ones they like. this requires direction, not endless patchwork. problems need to be solved at the root."
"and what is the root of the problem? and how would you fix it?"
"ok i can agree with that. each race does need to feel different from one another. and hybrid turrets should be functionally different than lasers missiles and projectile turrets. in a mixed race fleet the 4 different factions should have a different combat philosophy and different roles to play.so we should avoid patches that make rails feel too much like autocannons or too much like lasers.however the problem is balance. people come into this game and see the little 4 intro movies on the different factions. then they get in game and slowly realize, \"awww you picked gallente, your turrets are pointless, and you can't fly a drake... wah wah wah, hope you can fit autocannons on your myrmadon, sucks to be you.\"i think that raising a few numbers here or there (if done correctly) would help with game balance but not throw off the overall feel of the races."
"i don't care how its done but damnit, something needs to change. i started as gallente and trained lots into hybrid weapons only to discover they were craptastic and have now switched to projectiles. the issue of course with switching guns though is that to take advantage of weapon type bonuses you have to change up ships as well.perhaps if ccp had seen fit to give ships generic turret bonuses, switching weapon types would not have been such a ridiculous strain on both time and training and resources. indeed, because of the weapon specific bonuses involved, the crappiness of hybrids nave made using gallente ships crap which is no good for anyone."
"how about being able to cloak drones?from a pve perspective, i think this would be a great addition.when they're being shot at, you could hit a key that would cloak all/selected, possibly forcing them to return to orbit if you think it's too awesome to still have control over their navigation while they're cloaked.this sets their stance temporarily to passive and cloaked until new commands are given where they will revert to their chosen stance.this would make for a more elegant aggro-dump than the return-to-bay+relaunch, which i personally think is a kinda clunky mechanism, mainly because i don't know the state of the drones being relaunched(possibly severely damaged?), but also because it feels like an unpolished, brute force way of removing aggro.with this system, one would also be able to remote repair the damaged drones while taking aggro from the npcs.as for pvp, it would be amazing to have drones just pop out of their cloak, orbiting your enemy!"
"mining is a pretty hot topic, considering how simple and boring it looks to the majority of eve. i think the system could benefit from some small but powerful tweaks.ccp has tried to keep mining on the same risk-to-reward scale as everything else in eve: you stay in hi-sec, you get to sc**** up veldspar pebbles. you go to some rare, remote places in nullsec, you're chewing on juicy abc ores. you go to lowsec, you're either a ninja or you have a heavy escort to keep pirates from chewing on you. if you see where i'm going with this...nobody mines in lowsec.at the same time, macro miners are a problem. some people believe mining shouldn't happen at all, but i say if a person is willing to sit around at a belt for hours on end, he should get more money than a person warping about, killing npc's and salvaging wrecks. macro miners depress the mineral market and take a lot of the profit away from people who actually put thought into their mining ops. the only thing more annoying than sitting around mining is sitting around in a pvp ship protecting miners.i have a proposal that could change all that: a new type of special belt rat. these rats would be completely separate from the current system of belt rats and take a different form in different security areas.when a player mines from a belt, it activates the spawn trigger for \"adaptive\" rats (as i'm calling them for simplicity). as long as he continues mining, there is a small chance to get an adaptive spawn. this spawn is completely separate from the regular belt spawn, and they do not interact which means it is possible for both spawns to show up at the same time. in hi-sec the spawn would be 1 frigate, maybe 2-3 in .6-.7 space. this frigate announces itself to the player but does nothing. 30 seconds after its arrival the frigate will orbit and warp scramble the mining ship. if the player warps out before it attacks, the frigate will warp off and he can return and resume mining. this will function as a counter to macro miners, plus encourage humans to have friends nearby to assist in case they weren't paying attention.in lowsec and nullsec, however, the spawns will be much more powerful. they will still come with a 30-second delay and warp-off if the belt becomes empty, so they don't pose a much greater effect to afk miners and bots than to humans. however, these spawns include battleships with the same level of bounty as truesec rats (600k-1.5 million isk each).what this will mean:-macro miners have a much harder time exploiting the system.-lowsec and nullsec mining operations need escorts already. with this, the escorts don't come away from their job with empty pockets.-a belt with a miner in it produces more ratting income than otherwise, creating a powerful synergistic effect between belt ratters and miners. you get a sort of \"bonus income\" when your alliance diversifies its operations.finally, the rats should be exactly the same for nullsec and lowsec. lowsec is every bit as dangerous as 0.0 space, and most players agree it needs new sources of income. when i first started playing eve the idea of a mining expedition, deep into uncharted space with a team of 20-some miners and escorts sounded amazingly cool. i have since learned that it doesn't work that way, but i think that it should.---a second, related proposal i have is to modify the rorqual. i believe it should have a significantly reduced volume and mass to allow better access to wormholes, as well as the ability to deploy and pack-up faster. having a rorqual deployed on the grid with your mining operation should provide bonuses unlike anything we have today. i mean like 30%. there should be rorquals getting hotdropped and killed in nullsec, and the owners are willing to field another one---if you have any more ideas or changes to suggest, please do. i want to tune this until we have a perfect idea.to anybody who actually read this entire post, i sincerely thank you."
"i see no real issues with this, certainly better then what we have now."
"not so sure if a single frigate will be able to interfere with hisec macroing that much really, unless it puts out a rather significant amount of damage.and that is assuming the macro cant be easily adapted to avoid them completely.still, a good idea as far as lowsec goes imo, with a good spawn rate of the rats this might even make it worthwhile for organized mining ops."
"this i think i would support. compared to the last proposal i read; it's absolutely golden, and all covered in honey. can't even think of a way to improve upon it; or work in some sort of balance right now. that's how bad the last one wasit needs polish, and it need's balance; but it's probably the best idea yet./supportededit:forgot about the rorqual bit.. not sure thats a good idea."
"the main problem i see with this is that macros would be programmed to detect said communication from the rat, and immediately warp off, only to return and continue. macros are pretty advanced (some can even do scanning, from what i've heard).i think there should be normal npc frigates with scrams, and if they're not killed within 1 minute (an easy task for a person at the keyboard), they call in significant reinforcements, including maybe a commander rat. this would make it easy to take them out before the onslaught begins, and would work the same way as your current proposal for low-sec.the rorq idea i'm also unsure about, but for now, i would like them to do something with mining and low-sec, so i'll support this proposal."
"excellent idea."
"the main consequence of this is that bot creators would spend five minutes writing a new bit of code that says 'if scrambled by npc, pull in mining drones, pop out combat drones, kill npc, return to mining' and then make even more cash as macro miners would have to pay out for the new updated version.not sure how this is good either for for ccp or the (non bot-creating) players."
"so you are saying \"dont do anything so that macro users dont need to buy new macro programs\"??? :/"
"(supporting my own proposal)you have a point, i'm starting to realize that bot creators could adapt to just about anything and my idea won't solve the problem permanently. however, making bot programs for eve is currently very easy to do and i think a feature like this would still have an impact. it would completely knock out bot mining for a short time, until new macros can be written, and that should be enough for players to take back some ground.regarding the rorqual, maybe a straight mining bonus would be problematic. what if a few of the ores were made slower to mine, and the rorqual got bonuses to bring those ores back to normal mining rates?---even if you disagree with an idea, please give your support if you think this thread is at least going in the right direction. i'm willing to keep changing my ideas until i find the correct answer, but getting ccp's attention is a bit harder. in order to get the csm to recognize these concerns, i want to have as close to 100% approval as possible."
"supported. ccp said they would do something about mining years ago. still haven't though... unless they consider the orca 'doing something about mining'."
"the rorqual bit is tricky, but i like the idea of adaptive belt rats.i suggest shortening the attack timer according to security status; base announcement delay would be 30 seconds, and for every 0.1 sec level lowered the delay will decrease by 3 seconds. installing sleeper ai into those rats may also be nice."
"i wonder if a csm delegate might care to comment on the possibility of discussing this with ccp again?-windjammer"
"yeah f that noise"
"i know there are many threads about this but i feel they don't offer concrete ideas so i'll throw this in.there have been many people railing on the forums that gallente ships and hybrid turrets need to be boosted, and they're right. lasers have long suffered from terrible t2 ammunition drawbacks while autocannons had to give up damage to alternate their damage types as intended. both of these issues have been fixed (and fixed very well), but they have left hybrid turrets in the dust. i'm going to start by talking about blasters.the concept:blasters are balanced with high damage, a good solid damage type, and super-short range.the problem(s):1. as ships get closer to 0m from each other, their angular velocity goes through the roof. the pitiful range of blasters means their already good tracking just isn't enough.2. as time goes on, t2 and t3 ships are becoming more and more common, and more than half of them (caldari+gallente, caldari fielded more than other races) have high kinetic/thermal resists. kin/therm is no longer a solid damage type, in fact it's generally the worst spread to have.the solution(s):i propose that hybrid ammo and guns be reconfigured to produce more variety.for ammo, it should be divided into sets of 2. antimatter-plutonium with -50% range, uranium-thorium with -20% range, lead-iridium with +20% range, and tungsten-iron with +60% range. each pair has one ammo type that deals primarily kinetic damage (about 3/4 kin, 1/4 therm) and one that deals primarily thermal damage. this way you keep the overall damage type but allow for a little bit of flexibility. think about killing ships fitted with sansha/blood raider tanks, vs angel tanks.for guns, split the 3 blasters to have specific abilities. electrons can receive superior tracking speed, to kill small ships (if you get into range) ions should get improved range, perhaps +50% to give them more flexibility and allow them to synergize with caldari range bonuses. and then there's the mighty neutron blaster. neutron blasters should get massive damage with a low rate of fire, converting them into a short-range version of artillery. this will give gallente ships the clear role of \"tank-breaker\" and encourage fleet synergies like the current \"alpha-mael\" fleets.on top of these changes, i propose an overall small buff for hybrids, as shown below.type.......tracking...range...damageelectron:...+50%..................+10%ion:............+25%...+50%....+10%neutron:....+10%..................+10%reasoning (pvp):you cannot assume that a battleship with 6km optimal range fights at 6km. this is an incredibly hard range to maintain; the enemy will simply close with you and get under your tracking at around 3km. the effective band of ranges in which blasters are effective at full damage is 3-7km, i believe with a range this low the band should be 1-7.reasoning (pve):one thing that looks like a problem is blaster ships getting an edge in pve, where you can sidle up to npc battleships and they'll fly straight away giving you perfect shots. however, i don't think this would be much of a problem since they have to reach the ship first. blaster fits lose a lot of time just flying around that drakes and ravens don't have to deal with. it's appropriate for them to kill things a few hp/second faster for their trouble.rails.i don't have very much to say about rails at the moment...i think it's odd that beam lasers often deal better sniper damage. i believe this is because lasers \"have a worse damage type,\" a premise that is no longer true. the hybrid ammo change i suggested would help rails out as well, other than that do people think they need tweaking?-----this post is part of my giving eve a tune-up series. if you are interested in reading more, go here:[giving eve a tune-up] introduction and links"
"(supporting my own proposal)one thing i didn't have room to mention in the above post, that is actually a key part of the argument: caldari/gallente ships are limited by their powergrids.you cannot fit a rack of neutrons, mwd, and armor plates on a medium gallente ship.you also cannot fit a rack of neutrons with dual-reps on a gallente battleship such as the hyperion, which only applies its bonus to armor reps and not buffer.my proposal would not make it easy for gallente to have awesome nuke-boats, if they do fit neutron racks they will be very limited in the other things they put on their ship. since mwd's are pretty much required for any fleet ship, this would mean ancillary current routers or reactor controls, which in turn reduce either the ship's tank or its damage.this is effectively combining the traits of 1400's and tachs into one short-range bundle of fun and giggles."
"-1 i like stations as they are! don't wanna any changes!"
"+1 for the topic"
"+1 interesting idea"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"support and bump it to the top! :]"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"we all know its coming but what would we all like to see available? i for one would like to see not only avatar vanity options but ship options as well. particularly the ability to paint you ships even if the options are preselected for us. also, let us not forget the ability to place logos allowing us to represent our corps and alliances in style.what about changes to ship models? nothing that would alter the functions or stats of the game but perhaps just some preselected model choices or even better yet a character design system like the avatars have that would allow us to make some configuration choices like color, gun locations, engine design and the like. this is something that star trek online has managed to implement without any real issues and cryptic, sto's maker suck as a developers while ccp has enormous talent. i have no doubt that they could pull this off and it would offer a welcome change in ship personalization that eve not only currently lacks but looks behind the times in mmo technology for not having. hell, sto even has name of the ship on the hull and you can change it on the fly in real time. eve players needs, nay, deserves this kind of treatment and its long over due.as long as new options don't increase lag, and still make it easy to identify ship classes, i see no reason for these options to not exist. your thoughts on the matter?------------------------*additional rant*------------------------having had time to think about by post, it made me angry that ccp took the damn time and energy to create this new avatar system for something we won't even have a use for for probably the next 7-8 months while meanwhile, our ships, our true characters, have no customization ability at all which is in my opinion, complete and utter bull****. this is a damn spaceship game and a ship configuration tool should have taken precedence to a human configuration tool."
"+1i recently started what i'm calling the \"tune-up project,\" a series of threads addressing specific tweaks to the existing content of eve. i'll take a closer look at your suggestions, let me know if you have any others or you want to help out."
"npc don't get concorded for shooting players. you don't get concorded for rring them."
"this"
"that would be \"past concord tanking setups are ehp based.\" current concord is not tankable."
"not to open a different can of worms here, but how many people bot in wormholes? none i bet. removing local in 0.0 systems would go a long way to fighting the macro ratting problem with is ever increasing. it does not resolved the highsec macro miner problem though, and for that i support the move of warp-able belt rats, to and increase of scannable grav sites. it all boils down to ccp fixing their ****ing code though. if other companies can manage to detect and stop bots in their games, ccp should too."
"this is an interesting idea. i just posted my own idea to stop macro mining before i saw yours. people should check it out and decide which one they like better:making mining more fun for everyone"
"guys, if something can be done by a bot, a human should not be reasonably required to do it.punishing players for no reason other then require them to put effort into arbitrary things and then punish them for getting around the punishment is the worst sort of game design possible.want people to mine ? make it so that they don't have to stare at the same thing for 3 hours. this is a game, don't make it a job."
"you've got some interesting idea's there; though i can't really say i agree with them in entirety. the idea of scanning down roid belts isn't horrible; but, i think simply making a more dynamic system would be better.here's my thought, and perhap's it can work together with the other afforementioned thread idea:1.) rather than setting it up so you have to scan down grav's; set it up so they auto-green when you hit your scanner, in the same way as combat sites. this makes it simpler, while maintaining the dynamic value; and requiring a more human element to be involved. it's already been said, that bots can likely scan as effectively as any one of us; so why not just maintain the dynamic nature, without making it to cumbersome.2.) let's extrapolate on the dynamic spawning of sites. allow for sites to sites to spawn within belt regions; around moons and planets, and at varying distances from the sun. always within an orbital path; as would naturally occur. eliminate the 'circumferance' effect of the belts; as they are always a crescent shape of unrealistic scale. planets and moons are large, and have 10's of thousands of kilometer distance; across their respective orbital pathway's* diameter. 'belts' should be relatively straight in physical appearance; with smaller asteroids intermixed, and being trapped by their larger cousins.*orbital pathway is rather a vague term, with no real equivalent in science; but, for this purpose, we should consider it that distance from the planet, at which an eliptical orbit of 20 m/s can be achieved by large tumbling asteroids.this adds to the flavour of exploration, and the vastness of space; while preventing site access, from becoming a tedious exploration. it also prevents standard mining belts; from interfering with gravimetric site spawning. these should be two different entities.additionally, no more than 2-5 such belts; should exist in a system at any one time. belt life, should be limited to 3 hours at most; unless an individual is continuously present at the site. the ability to 'lose' a belt, becomes possible; while not occuring randomly while a player is present. at most, a belt should contain no more than 80% of the current largest belt, in a given security status; and the composition of the belt, should be very similar, to what they are now. allow for an exceptional asteroid to occur rarely; being one of the smallest in the belt, and limited in it's mineral wealth. nothing near what you'd find; in it's lowsec or null equivalent.add depleted asteroids to the mix, as the other 20% of a given belts asteroids; and prevent asteroids from despawning, when they have lost their mineral wealth, to a mining barge laser. not really neccessary; but, it'll keep the miners guessing. it will also make survey scanners useful; for more than simply evaluated when an asteroid is all but depleted. 3.) allow for a more intelligent ai, in asteroid 'rats'; and use of warp scrambling and disruption, and stasis web's; as well, as re-evaluating targets, remote repping, and similar tactics. allow the rats; to function in gangs. this will make things more interesting for players; while allowing for additonal income from such persuit's. it will be more complicated, than regular ratting; but will potentially, be more rewarding as well. scale 'rat' spawns, and usable effects/abilities; based on system security, as usual. this shouldn't make mining impossible; just more difficult, and requiring of awareness. allow for concurrent spawns, and system security dependent; triggered waves of rats, at a given belt being mined. any given asteroid, upon being mined; may trigger one of these waves, or just a small gang. create a general dependancy; between the two activities. without a miner, ratting is very limited; and without combat support vessels, there can be little or no mining. allow for waves and gangs to spawn at a distance; allowing an alert miner, to get out of there."
"^^ i love to see constructive post written on this subject... :)"
"this is another suggestion that would simply mean reprograming the bots software or a little alteration to supervising the bots. you need to think of an idea that couldnt be affected by a bots software."
"if the grav site was set to never scan out to 100% on 16 or 32 au scans then your average haven running macro wouldn't be sophisticated enough to figure out the little scanning mini game.and all miners would have to do is scan at 16 or 32, then scan at 8 over all the little red dots that show up. it wouldn't take too much time for most people. the real question is whether or not a 14 day free trial noob can figure out scanning long enough to get some veldspar.i guess in theory a bot could be programmed to blanket space with 8 au scans in a grid pattern across the solar system. you could always kick down the minimum scan radius for grav sites down to 4 or 2. if you were blanketing a system in a grid of scans then each reduction in size increases the total amount of scans by roughly 8x from the previous level. so a 32 au scan area is 8 16 au bubbles and 64 8 au bubbles and 512 4 au bubbles.also on ccp's end someone doing blanket 8 au scans in a grid across a solar system would be really easy to detect. basically you'd look for someone scanning a lot in a short amount of time in one solar system, especially if the majority of their scans weren't anywhere near a cosmic anomaly. for a decently sized gang it's not too hard to get one person to put a combat probe scanner on their ship. this might actually encourage people to take roles in pvp rather than everyone going for straight dps.also if you are solo pvping it doesn't take too much cpu and power grid to fit a core scanner and just warp to each anomaly in turn the same way you would run through the belts. and if you wanted all your powergrid and cpu and you were patient enough you could offline another module to online the probes. then once you scan out a system offline the probes and online your other module."
"and self-destructing even gives you a chance to change your mind"
"i didn't know you could eject from a pod and now i'll never see it happen :("
"i will not be ignored!"
"supported"
"no. anything that make afk mining more difficult make an already boring chore annoying as well.if you want to fix mining, make it actually fun to do, rather then making it so that no sane person would enjoy it."
"as we all know ccp makes income off of botters. each time they ban a bot account they lose precious monies that could be used for keeping eve alive. my proposal is simple...let the bots stay.i know i know...emoragequit! but seriously...ccp knows who the bots are. with that said all that needs to be done is to give the players of eve something to do. mark each bot account with a flag that lets players know that they are bots. if one character is flagged as a bot then all 3 characters on the account are. players can then attack and kill these bots without reproach of concord. to prevent this from being abused by pirates make it so that if the bot attacks a player back concord will come in and destroy the bot allowing the player to finish off the pod. treat the kill like a ratting kill...no killboard mail...no reason to pad stats with this. maybe even put small bounties on the bots as well.obviously this has no effect in nullsec...but players can already do what they need to there. this would allow ccp to retain the cashflow from bot accounts while at the same time lower the impact that bots have on the economy and give players a way to help control it.obviously if ccp were to make an error and flag an innocent account as a bot account many tears would ensue...thats what petitions are for. if you do not use bot programs...you have nothing to fear."
"or you know you could change ratting and mining so it would be somewhat pointless / hard using a bot"
"hmm, interesting, make it legal to bot, but also make it easy to kill them...well, at the very least it could be fun.note: not supporting, but only because i want to hear other opinions first. i see nothing wrong with this, but someone else might think of something i can't."
"i would like to know how you think this could be done? and where is your proposal thread?"
"most of the botters are sov null ratters hidden deep within the blue ass of large alliances. you won't get to them."
"som update by ccp on this wuld be nice."
"1.0"
"that would mean this is not a works as intended feature, similar to capital ships jumping to covert cyno's or the ninja buff to incoming hulkageddon."
"supported i have nfi why it was removed, it was a great feature. (i hope you have bugreported it)"
"cmon i'm here!!! consider dit a divorceps. raimo looks pretty gay imo"
"fix it plz."
"reserved for abusing trolls."
"that's more about the docking size of teh station, if you warp to 0 and land on the edge of the stations docking range.would the morons please read and understand the op before chiming in with pointless jibber jabber.thanks for the specific information, it's such a small change and would be relatively easy for a programmer with an iq, add a 0 to 250 and there's a docking range that makes warp to 0, effectively 0. wouldn't be surprised if they did miss the extra 0 when they programmed it.."
"what you need to do is jet a can on undock, bookmark that can, warp to bm next time and spam dock station on exit. docking was a problem even in highsec mission hubs, where a single suicide ganker would camp in direction of a gate and volley a low ehp tengu with rack of 1400s on docking. the ship comes out of warp to a standstill, still under command to dock, unresponsive to other commands, and thus vulnerable. think of it as landing in a bubble with people waiting. for something that's exploited even in highsec, lowsec ganking is a matter of course. tentatively supported. this is just like lack of warp to zero for gates before. people started mass bming and lag the server. you cannot make real players into yerr-pirate fodder through the use of arbitrary and stupid mechanic limitations. as is with that last case, people can get around it, and it only ends up being a hassle that detracts from the game itself."
"forum warriors, respect themand docking ranges need to be fixed. it;s random like ****.yeah, what, you whant a button to do exactly what it says? tss. such nonsence. not in eve what does align time have to do with warp-in position? that's right, it doesn't!"
"kinda undecided on this, as it can actually be an advantage for drone-heavy ships tanking the guns as long as you got replacements.i frequently use disposable drones like ecms for that purpose.then again, probably unfair to be able to mitigate damage with your drones."
"as long as there is gate guns.no."
"so i take it you would not car if that gates and stations fired defender missiles out as well ??grate idea, as long as blasters are **** gal needs as much help as they can get lol. one up for this post"
"i wont even go into your cap philosophy cause it lowsec ish and short sighted.just remember that when 2 chimeras cap transfer eachother they is cap created. both ships gain cap.to your points1. - cruiser sized ships capable - like stealth bombers making everything above them useless? cause its the same concept. and they didn't unbalance anything, having 3 cit torp launchers wouldnt make it op against anything since anything larger then a cap can outrun the majority of the damage.- cruiser sized ships incapable - wtf are you smoking man if it fires capital size weapons it will be effective against normal caps and to an extent bs. im sorry do hics only bring focus scripts when your sure theres gonna be super caps? no. what i mean is you could fold 5 or 6 of these into a fleet if you know your going to be shooting, structures caps or supers and let them move in once you control the field, til then they could be safed up.- creating \"supercapital killers\" - ok soooo answer me this, if it can fly in space it can be dd'd, also it would bring to light the flaw in pvp at the moment which is that super caps don't need a support fleet. they wouldnt be immune by any means but for a group of super carriers they'd be annoying and hard to kill.- i agree except noone wants to bonus dreads cause it would unbalance them from bs, not to mention its not a question of bringing number, we will always bring numbers. the problem with always needing something bigger to destroy something is that this system of thinking never ends- we already require 5+ hics - you are seriously fail if you need 5 hics to tackle 1 single super carrier. since unless it has help can only neut out 2 hics at a time if the pilot is good and if they are all cycling focused points. every time 1 came close to capping out it would just fly outa range cap up and fly back in.5 hics would have an easy time with 1 super carrier.your corp m8s might laugh cause they are short sighted and rooks to eve. but anyone who thinks long term can see the only way to make eve last is to make it cyclical not linear in as many systems as possible.creating a cruiser that uses 2-3 citadel launchers, that had a low ehp and cannot cloak. how could it possibly be op. it would be easily taken out by cruisers t1 and t2 frigates, bcs,bs. the ships focus would be large volley but it would need to be protected. this would encourage team play and fleet strategic planning. also posting with your alt just shows how unprofessional you are. true assembly hall going post with mains!but thats not the point. the point is if you look for the solution in caps then you will find that those will just be blobbed. omg you make the falcon of caps and they will just be spammed till they need to be built a counter. you build a hic for caps and they will just be spammed. if you built the ship i recommended it would be spammed by the spam of a cruiser hulls that have next to no ehp, well then a regular fleet could be formed to wipe them out.think logically for once nub"
"there is the not completely unrealistic scenario that it would lead to a situation where you only deploy supercaps if you are sure you got enough to not only annihilate a small fleet of hics and dictors in short order, but you got enough to annihilate a substantial force of carriers and dreads in short order, i.e. before losing more than 1-2 supers.giving capitals the ability to tackle them will just introduce another round of the arms race to mass the largest possible supercap fleet.no, a sensible solution is to improve the survivability of subcap counters against supercaps (read: nerf their damage projection against subcaps), and as far as lowsec is concerned rething the availability of ecm bursts and other means of anti-hic capabilties (ecm drone swarm, neuts, but also fighters and dps drones).edit: and the logoff safeguard. its kinda funny how the standard tactic to save a supercap that actually gets tackled in lowsec is ctrl-q or whatever the shortcut is after the patch. if agression would scale a bit, or even extend as long as something is being shot at, this whole problem would not exist in lowsec to this extend."
"why are you trying to fill the role of the dread with a cruiser? your idea replaces the role of the dread with lower sp requirment and lower isk investment and on top of that only further ****s the dread into -only ass hats use- territory.you are a dumb ass who seems to have focused on a very narrow minded idea. the complete rebalanced of everything that would have to unfold because you toss citadel torps on a cruiser hull far exceeds the balance issues that come up from super caps losing their ability to warp off when other caps are on the field."
"if you are going to remove a useful tool, namely the jump to drop down menu accessed by right button clicking your capacitor, please make the replacement \"capital navigation panel\" usable.the biggest fail of this new ui interaction is that previously by using the drop down menu you could see player cynos and their location.this had the advantage of both knowing where your jumping and more importantly not having to broadcast a cyno.im sure most capital pilots already knew about the capital navigational panel previously, and while useful for the occasional check against range and fuel consumption, i myself tended to ignore it most of the times since it took up valuable screen space and there was much better option (the now removed drop down menu)there is also have been issues reported by others that this tool doesn't work in laggy situations. remember that lag also affects broadcasting meaning player cynos will be difficult , if not impossible, to find.so either:a.) return the old system which most found useful. unlikely given ccps tendency not to backtrack on (bad) feature additions.orb.) provide a new tab under capital navigation for active player cynos (show name and location), and remove its resize restrictions to allow docking with other windows. (ie tab hidden under the overview window)."
"well eh upvote and *bump* i'd at least like >30 views without support before abandoning the idea as bad ;)"
"yes why did ccp nerf pi and make it a even larger klick fest as i am now unable to run my planets like i did before and have to use even lower rates on my extractors to get enough material the actual problem is that the extractor control units use too much power and make pre incursion setups impossible to workthe solution to this would be to move all cpu and power the extractor control units use and shift it to the extractor headsonly a few people are using 10 heads on one control unit anyway but want to extract many different materials"
"please, enough about the new pi system, learn to master it!also, there are hundreds of threads on this, look around before you post!"
"number one rule in the eve verse \"adapt or die\" why do you think there are so many pirate tears in the forums as of late. so you cant make robotics on a plasma planet any more big freaken deal. my whole setup for the past x months we have had pi was nothing but extractor colonys and one or 2 processing colones and it worked great. i personal love the new system cause it means that i dont have to click 45 times per instalation for the stuff i want, due to my setup its a maximum 40 times and its actualy fun finding the best layout for the white rings to max mat production"
"new pi system is less clicks same output. you'r doing it wrong."
"i can't see the nerf.you click less (after setup i mean). you can make almost twice as much per hour (though it does take time to get the setup right for that).the only possible nerf is for those who want to extract 4 or more materials from the same planet and still have industry. and thats a maybe because i haven't tried it."
"i don't suppose you've ever mined have you? it's boring as heck. so boring in fact; i can't even stand it. i've got a thing about paying attention, incase somebody comes along to suicide gank in high; or, if in null or low, just to gank. can't really rationalize the loss of a 200 million isk ship; because i was too bored to bother watching, while i'm making 4 million isk an hour, more or less. mining is unprofitable, boring, and thoroughly uninteresting; while the lasers crackle away, in a most annoying fashion, just to irritate you. it's frickin' profound, how dull it is; and you want guys to manage a tracking laser, every cycle. you're out of your mind; except for bot's, they'll stop mining entirely. i can't believe they actually do it; with the way it is now. the only 'mining' i can handle; is gas mining low displacement gas, thats worth a bit. at least my effort and boredom; is lessened by reasonable returns, and limited time. 10 minutes to handle a cloud of c-70; with a few guys, no more. if i have to mine anything, 5 cu. meters a unit or more; i get sick of it, and the extension of the time requirements, even at 70k+ a unit. /definitely not supported."
"no support.not mining afk is insane."
"any kind of mechanical process, that does not include complex human interaction (such as discerning intelligible shapes against a fuzzy background, captcha-style) is easily automated by a bot. your input is appreciated, we need to deal with botting, but this is not the way to do it."
"1) define \"mining ship\". it is a ship with a mining laser/stipminer in a high slot?you have just damned all the new players to use captcha every time they dock. player retention will drop.only a barge/exumer? apoc/rook bot for miners will be out next week. it will require a complementary hauler and a lot of drag and drop but bots don't fear carpal tunnel. after the needed time for retraining the situation will be back to \"normal botting\".if you include industrial/transport ships and the orca you will annoy plenty of people. think doking in jita while doing a captcha. that even assuming that the bots will have problems with captcha (plenty of macro can decipher them).2) it will kill player miners. we will get plenty of \"elite pvpers\" ready to kill miners near the stations while they input captcha. 3) it will annoy plenty of players for no discernible gain."
"i think major problem with botting this and that is that they're not worth shooting while in space. bot miners and haulers and ratters hardly ever drop anything worth looting, considering the time effort and/or sec loss spent shooting them."
"it would be very easy to stop macro miners. all you would have to do is apply a 30% (this figure could revised) cut to mining yield of mining turrets/drones whilst in an npc corp. to mine effectively you would need to be in a player corporation which would make you war decable. macro miners could mine in safety in npc corps if they wished but since their mining yield would be diminished. this would very beneficial to the economy. genuine miners will usually gravitate to player corporations and as such wont be affected. for the genuine player who mines in an npc corporation all i can say is time to find a good well balanced corp and please remember that mission runners had to take an 11% cut to bountys when ccp introduced tax for npc corps. i have always wondered why ccp over looked miners"
"well, it was just and idea, i thank you all for your imput and i apologize for my previous post which was both hostile and rude."
"any system that allows you to run multiple mining characters at once is likely to be very easy to bot. so you miners need to decide which you prefer: multiple hulks or not competing against bots that never get tired or bored.as long as ore is widely available and mining is really easy, it will be heavily botted."
"i'm making this post, to address possible solutions to the \"0.0 problem\" i'd appreciate it, if you could keep player-to-player harrassment down to a minimum; unlike a previous thread, which only addressed a small portion, of the overall discussion. below, i'm going to be quoting, the actual meeting minutes; from the csm december summit, which this discussion will reflect on.i believe there are changes that need to be made; and i believe some of you, may have some valuable input, on the subject. the csm is a small group, which represents us in new eden; as such, they have only limited knowledge of our actual needs and/or interests. it is a fact in any corporation or alliance in eve; that leadership, rarely listens to the little guy, while persuing their goals. they often make decisions, that affect all their members in some fashion; without consulting those members, with regard to their opinions. this is reflected in standard operating procedures, alliance dues, and other policies; all of which, are expected to be obeyed without argument or discussion. sometimes, they are well thought out, and reasonable in practice; and occaisionally, they are designed to pad leadership' wallets, or are simply redundant, or even tyrannical orders. this is what happens; when you have a government.optionally, you may simply click support, to show your support for ccp and csm; with regards to their opinions and conclusions, found in these minutes. giving reasons for, or against, certain aspects of this discussion; being within the realm of a supporting vote, but allowing for alternative means of implementation to be discussed."
"post dominion 0.0present: ccp zulu, ccp greyscale, ccp dr.eyjog (final hour)"
"please note, these minutes are for reference only; it is not expected, that you read all of them. it is expected, that you read related parts, when forming criticism of another player, or ccp; or calling another player a lier, with regard to his/her statements regarding these minutes, and their content."
"shameless plug -"
"like in the game perpetuum for thoses who know the gamefor now u are forced to use your skill point even if u dont know what is the good choice to do or if you are happy with what you have spent your points in being able to stockpile for future use would be greatif being able to insta train something would be a problem for the game balance, the max number of skill points u could stockpile could be capped or for doing some skill points sink ccp could create a skill like a brand new learning skill \"memory\" (rank 1)each level allow you to stockpile 100k sp\"eideitic memory\" (or something) (need memory to 5)(rank 5)allow you to stockpile 200k sp for each level"
"perpetuum seems to be a eve clone only inferior in almost every way. eve probably shouldn't be taking ideas from it.plus, ccp wants people actually logging in to play from time to time, that's why the 24hr limitation was put in on the skillqueue. allowing players to vanish for a month or more and come back to a huge amount of freely allocatable sp would seem to go against this desire."
"how would you do this? you accumulate sp at different speeds depending on what primary and secondary atts a given skill depends on.no, i cant support this."
"might have been a good idea 3 years or more ago, but it would make the attribute remap obsolete.max out two attribs and train all skills associated with them, bank all future sp and apply to skills where attribs are crap ..essentially just a max train speed sggestion, which is not needed."
"no."
"how is a game based on driving robots on the ground remotely similar to internet spaceships? much less a clone... it's an updated clone for mechwarrior. google black prophecy if you're looking for potential competition for eve. as for training speed, they can always store raw points, and apply penalty according to current remap/stats. it's the same process that happens in real time currently."
"not supported. different training times were instituted for a reason and i believe should remain as such."
"1.0"
"1.0"
"so, i started playing eve a few weeks back and i'm still learning all the ropes. when the new patch hit, with the new character creation i literally took 30 minutes to create my character(yes, i tend to be \"perfectionist\"). seeing how after you're done, you take a picture of only from the shoulders up, i kinda felt like i wasted lot of my time. so i asked in-game if there was going to be anything involving our characters be able to walk in stations and they replied that there might be soon in months to come. so i really wanted to know and so i ask dear eve forum habitants.are there any hints of character being able to walk freely in stations in the future?also: i know some players will dispute against this by saying that this game revolves around ships or whatever excuse just to say no to characters walking, but if it was just like that, then there wouldn't be any sense in making such \"complex\" character creation feature. might as well left it like it was before, upgrade the facial graphics and features and leave it with a simple character creation system."
"it is called incarna. read about walking in stations in the evelopedia here.also moved from assembly hall."
"there was a playable demo about 2 years ago, it was pretty cool.i'll find the video for you."
"greeting i hva e alittle problem i would like to talk about i never looked at description of teh bloodline but only how much the diferant bloodline were affecting teh clothes hair and facial of my avatar but now that the new carcacter creator is out its all changed and i cant make a good looking caracter like before i want it to look like an emperor since it will be my titan rider account but i dont want to start all what i learned to zero just to change my bloodline to make it look cooler so what im asking is to let us the ability to explore all the other possibility of our new races custumisation or then i dunno make that all bloodline can have the same clothes and hair and everything cause it really suck that i cant make a good portrait due to teh bloodline i choosed before and anyway is there a diferance between the bloodline?note: i might be counfounding ancestry and bloodline but you get the main messageforgot to say taht this caracter and my first oen calyster solaris are both perfect but i cant make emperor solaris look like an emperorthx for your comprehention(sorry for my bad english im a french canadian)"
"change of bloodline has been requested before, it seems unlikely to happen."
"tadaa"
"o sorry never saw it lol gm just asked me to post this idea here i should have looke daround lol"
"many good ideas over the years as to what could be done to make them worth the cost, most focusing on tank/gank aspect, creating mini-hacs if you will .. will work but rather boring if you ask me.first a change that is needed to facilitate it:warp disruption field generator (wdfg) range reduced to 10km and the bonus on heavy interdictors quadrupled (20%/lvl). hic's will have same range at lvl5 as current but with larger increments.enyo, harpy, retribution and wolf:-80% to -90% reduction in power and cpu need per level when fitting wdfg.increase capacitor size/recharge to where they can run the wdfg+ab(+weapons?) (roughly 9-10 cap/s, ie. retribution levels).ishkur, hawk, vengeance and jaguar:5% bonus bonus to the velocity factor of stasis webifiers per level (half that of marauders = 75% webs at lvl5)notes:while technically they can run with bubble in null-sec; the speed hit, denial of remote assistance and small size (10km) should make that option a last resort.allows for a much more accessible tackle option against super-capitals which is sorely needed in low-sec where bubbles are prohibited and supers bolt at the first sign of a hic.the pointers were intentionally made cap unstable to minimize the risk of them becoming the primary tackle, against supers they are a stop-gap until a more permanent point can be fielded (ie. hic)."
"rather not we already have interceptors as tackle shipsalso frigs have close to no use in low sec as they can't tank gate guns so that argument is invalid i think they should get a second damage bonus like hacs do or a speed agility bonus on some"
"i could see a t2 destroyer class ship designed for hunting cloakersthat has special scan probes that can pick up a cloakers signature if they are moving, or can track down if they warp within a certain amount of time before the signature fades, and can also fit special guns that fire anti cloaking charges in a (30 km?) circular radius around it that will temporarily disable the cloaking device if the charge passes close enough. (60 secs?)it would still be difficult to find afk cloakers, especially good ones, but it would provide a counter that shouldn't be too over powered."
"1.remove cloak usage from not cov ops cloak user ships.(solution 0.0 no danger/isk problem, solution against capital blob, no more cloaked titans and motherships)2.add capacitor usage to cloaking device(solution against afk cloakers)"
"last time i checked custom officials can still fine you randomly at gates if you happen to be carrying illegal goods. depending on quantity's in cargo hold i imagine this could throw you in the negative. so technically there are ways to go into the negative without violating the eula. something to think about."
"so you'd rather drive people out of the game that once bought isk and got caught instead of re-educating them?that's stupid and the reason ccp won't do it."
"i thought ccp \"frowns\" at used alts recycling? how does that re-educate people?"
"next time dont buy isk or dont scam, and the devs/gms wont move to you negative wallet. bye,bye!!!p.s. pls cheaters don't cry when you got punishment affter tricks."
"are dumb, mommies money is not how you should get better!"
"makes sense."
"am i the only one who reads dev blogs? ccp specifically said that with the next expansion we can take new photos at will so we can take advantage of all the new accessories and tattoos."
"suported"
"supported, (but why not boobs - no plastic surgeons then?) perhaps that's in incarna too !"
"supported. new portraits fine, new avatar only with microtransation/new stuff implemented by devs."
"personally, i'm a fan of jump bridges, this despite not being in an alliance, much less having access to any jump bridges. why, you ask? jump bridges provide another frequent locus of pvp, they're not too difficult to fight on to kill high value targets, cause significant alliance disruption when you destroy them, and breed laziness and stupidity in to those who grow to rely on them. so, why change them? simple, to decrease the overall benefit gained from using jump bridges, increase the risk involved, and i'm of the opinion that any changes removing them would simply see a mass proliferation in titan bridging for even the most miniscule of large alliance fleets. so, with the preamble in order, i offer to you a simple set of changes to keep jump bridges viable, yet still not overpowered. 1) increase jump bridge fitting enormously, such that a pos that has a jump bridge anchored can manage maybe 6 small guns, a warp disruption battery and a web battery, and very little else. this will mean that even meagerly equipped small gangs can fight pretty effectively at jump bridges, while still giving some advantage to the defender. some tooling will be needed to accomodate the various pos fitting, and likely faction pos might be able to muster some more impressive defense, but with any luck, not much more.2) increase the size of jump bridges. by about 4-5 times to ensure that planting a jump bridge is a freighter affair. 3) reduce jump bridge shield and armor hp by 90% (1m to 100k for shields, 15m to 1.5m for armor), increase the structure hp by 100% (100,000->200,000) the object here is to reduce the amount of time it takes to incap a jump bridge. by doing so it allows attackers to negate a strong defensive advantage that defenders currently have with mobility. alternative means of system entry (titan bridge, gate entry) then bring their own risks. 4) reduce jump bridge limit to 1 per system, 2 (or 4) per constellation. while overall, not a huge change, it will add on rougly 1-3 minutes per jump when moving fleets across vast networks. if more rapid deployment means are needed, titan bridges can always be set up. furthermore, forces some modicrum of gate travel within a constellation to get to your intended destination. 5) reduce both the material cost, and upkeep cost of jump bridges. only fair that if they're now made of less hardy construction, they shouldn't cost as much, given that they give a much less significant advantage. 6) likewise increase fitting restrictions on cyno beacons: not to the same degree as is proposed for jump bridges, but enough so that a moderate gang can destroy/ignore the defenses in a reasonable time frame to deny the asset and force a confrontation. also as a means to prevent titan bridge chains from cyno beacons being a much more viable solution. with these changes, i hope that it'll further increase the ability of roamers/attackers to do damage to the infrastructure network of the defender, limit the overwhelming advantage that's currently accrued as a defender with jump bridges, and add an additional friction point where fights can occur. feel free to tear apart this proposal to pieces."
"that will nerf logistics but what about force projection? also be ready for finnagain to decend upon your thread and argue with everyone and try to derail it."
"i don't think jump bridges should be altered independently in any way. any changes made should be as a part of a bigger redesign of mobility/force projection/cyno mechanic as a whole. those bigger design outline changes should then dictate what alterations should be made to jump bridges.people spitballing ideas is fine, but i won't support any independent changes."
"if we really need to change something about jumpbridges, these are pretty good ideas.but i believe the current jumpbridges are just fine."
"anchorable only at storm planets. or plasma. some relatively rare one with fairly even distribution. one per planet.dust mercs can then mess with them as a high-tier objective."
"black ops battleships came into existence late in eve's \"expanding roles\" stage, and as such never got the ability to do...anything, on a battlefield. recently ccp has been tentatively poking the widow, seeing what they can do without committing to anything.i believe the proper role for black ops ships is area-of-effect ewar. yes, that sounds awesome. yes, it also sounds like it would be broken and laggy, but i don't think so.we have heavy interdictors that project moving bubbles around themselves. i propose that black ops become a new kind of ewar hictor, where the bubble cycles like any other module, and applies its effect to all ships in the area.to see what this would mean, i'm going to look at the already-existing aoewar module, the ecm burst. it can be used on any ship, but when used on a widow its strength gets up to a 150% bonus (as of incursion 1.1). if two fleets are in close combat, the effect will hit friendlies as well, although the friendly fleet could have been prepared (i have already suggested some means for battleships to defend themselves against ewar in my previous thread, [giving eve a tune-up] episode 4: the evolving battlefield (ewar).however, in the case of fleets firing at each other from a distance a single widow decloaking and activating its ecm burst could have a powerful effect on the battle. the widow itself would have a very good chance of dying, however. it could even get dd'd.keep in mind that what i just described is not a suggestion. it already works this way, the widow can use aoewar already to great effect. i haven't heard of anyone doing it in the last 2 days but i expect it'll happen. if similar modules are to be developed for the other races' black ops, there are a couple key rules i believe they should follow. for one thing multiple aoewar bubbles of the same type would not stack.amarr: tracking disruption. probably not energy draining, but i'm not saying that's a bad idea. we have energy draining bombs, remember.gallente: sensor dampening.minmatar: target painting. once again, i don't know about area webs. it makes sense lore-wise and would be cool, but it would stack brutally with warp disruption bubbles. otherwise you could use it to speed up your own fleet's warping.caldari: already have ecm bursts. note that each ship can only burst with 1 module at a time, but multiple ships can \"stack\" bursts.like hictors, black ops should be able to use focusing scripts on their aoewar modules to allow them to target one enemy ship with deadly effect. this focused ewar should work on all capitals and supercaps, perhaps with a 30% chance to jam a supercarrier each cycle or a 70% tracking speed and range penalty on a dread. one of these could seriously disable a capital ship if used appropriately but keep in mind that after insurance a black ops can cost more to lose than a dread or carrier.i propose that all these weapons should be high-slot modules, and ecm bursts should be made high-slot. in addition, black ops be able to fit bomb launchers with range, area, and damage bonuses. i'll release episode 5 soon with an in-depth explanation of my reasoning why i think eve needs more aoe weapons.now, for the slot configurations. i propose black ops should get 5 high slots (4 for gallente, but has drones), with 3(gallente 2) turret/missile hard-points and 100% bonus damage to its native guns. so a black ops can fit for decent damage with a cloak and aoewar or a bomb launcher, or it can increase its options at the cost of 1/3 its damage per highslot module.to anybody who actually read this entire post, i sincerely thank you.-----this post is part of my giving eve a tune-up series. if you are interested in reading more, go here:[giving eve a tune-up] introduction and links"
"the current setup:electronic warfare in eve is effective, varied, and very well-conceived. it is also very simple, and limited to a small set of ships and situations. you can be an elite shooter(90+ days worth of sp), you can be an elite logistics or command pilot, but you can't be an elite ewar pilot in the current system.the opportunities:1. electronic warfare has to be very carefully balanced because it scales differently from other things like damage and rr. an ewar ship that shuts down the enemy completely is no fun in 1v1, powerful in small gangs, and relatively useless in large-scale pvp. if you try to balance it for one arena, it becomes unbalanced for the others.2. electronic warfare is very specific about which ships can use it and which ships are vulnerable to it. while this makes sense and adds variety to the battlefield, for a \"dedicated\" ewar pilot it means training all 4 races and being able to switch ships on the fly. if your curse runs into a drake gang, the only thing you can do is get another ship. this is why there are very, very few players who call themselves \"ewar pilots.\"now, i want to address issue #3 first and work my way back.proposal #1: vulnerability by sizeit is difficult and chaotic to track what your enemy is using and line up your ewar accordingly because you don't know what race ships the enemy will be flying. 2 hac gangs of nearly identical configurations can have completely different ewar vulnerabilities. so what if the vulnerabilities were based more on ship roles? i've been thinking about this a lot lately, and what if ccp introduced a high-slot module for battleships that either blocks or weakens ewar effects? after all one would expect a large ship to have a much bigger sensor suite than its smaller peers. larger ships already have higher sensor strengths in response to ecm, and in battle it is generally easier to disrupt a battleship's performance (for example, tracking disruptors) than that of a smaller ship.as a much less radical change, i propose that combat recon ships receive 1/2 the applicable bonus to all other forms of ewar. this way only the rook would get the full ecm bonus, but another combat recon ship would still use it better than any t1. give ewar pilots the flexibility they desperately need and they'll give you a more dynamic game.proposal #2: advanced scriptsi propose that ccp introduce a new script for each type of ewar only usable by players with level 5 of the appropriate electronics skill. this script will grant a substantial bonus (75%?) to both effects of the ewar but prevent the effects from stacking. there are 2 options for this: either only 1 ewar module of that type can affect the target vessel, or the effect has a hard limit (say, 5 or 10km for sensor damps). this would encourage players to spread out their ewar and/or allow them to affect enemies with only 1 module so they still have room for tank.finally, i have some special ideas for black ops which will be in a separate post. expect to see the link here soon.to anybody who actually read this entire post, i sincerely thank you.-----this post is part of my giving eve a tune-up series. if you are interested in reading more, go here:[giving eve a tune-up] introduction and links"
"i know there is proposal for afk status a year ago. ccp should implement this feature. how wow has it and eve doesn't?"
"i am just going to beat a dead horse here. but seeing how the idea is rising to remove jb's from 0.0 i would like to revive another idea.high sec wars revised:since the dawn of high sec wars there have been station hugging games. with the heavily increased hp on ships in most cases you can undock, take a few popshots at a target and redock way in time before your armor or shield suffors real damage.the 30 second timer is a thing of old.and why would a stationmanager allow heavy agressive people back in after a mere 30 seconds of none agression?make it 15 minutes and you are sure that pvp will happen between those engaging eachother outside a station.but that 15 minute timer kicks in after agression, so not when you don't agress.about neutral reppers.as soon as someone uses a neutral repper or get's repaired by a neutral that neutral actually declares he isn't neutral and should be flagged as a legal wartarget for the remainder of the war.activly participating in a war should have it's consequences, even if you aren't shooting, by aiding one side the other side should have you as legal target for the remainder of the war.result will be more active combat since the useage of neutral reppers only lasts as long as you have unflagged ones.as it is now you can use a neutral repper who will unflag within a real short amount of time.dockingranges of stations.do something about that. it's absurd that some stations have a dockingrange that exceeds well over 30km from undock whereas others have a small docking radius.make them all as small as the smallest currently in exsistance ingame."
"now, if only there was a way to change ****ty names like, oh, i don't know... \"awacs sgt\"...because, you know, there are no awacs in space."
"well, it's safe to say that a carrier is a tier 1 version and a supercarrier a tier 2 version.just bring a tier 2 version of the dread in.cause a dread as it is now has such a small niche roll that you're practicly forcing people into the carrier direction."
"really, if youre going to quote someone, reference the post with a link so that readers can see the context in which the quote was taken from and verify that youve actually given the quote without another of your lies injected into it. as youve shown a propensity for lying and putting your own words into others mouths, this is not an unreasonable request. though i understand your aversion to truth given the lack of substance in your argument. another display of your poor ability to lie and your willing denigration of the readers intelligence. your quote from ankh is given without a link to the thread it was taken from. you took it out of context and substituted your own. she was advocating for balance to an unbalanced situation.the ankh quote youve chosen above was taken from a discussion of suicide ganking and the price gankers have to pay. ill give you the benefit of doubt and proceed under the assumption you didnt change her words. ankhs point was that it is reasonable to punish suicide gankers in game through concords response to the situation. moreover, it appears she was saying insurance companies should have something to say in the issue as well. ill assume she might also have had something to say about the standing hit a suicide ganker takes.advocating for balance in an unbalanced situation is not anti-pvp. it is pro balance. that she chose to do so in a colorful fashion is neither here nor there. she would hardly be the first to do so and certainly not the last.ankh was pro-pvp. she was a strong advocate for factional warfare. what she didnt like was unbalanced mechanics that griefers were taking advantage of.-windjammer"
"sooowhen you sober up or grow out of the tweener stage of life, im sure youll be a little embarrassed by what you just posted.the reader should really forgive scat. what can you expect from a person believes that hes somebody and others are nobody? how much maturity can be expected from someone who is still at that stage of life or intelligence where they giggle like a young school girl when the word boobies is mentioned? some day he/she may become an adult. you never know.-windjammer"
"a court will examine damages incurred, intent of the author and legitimacy of statements made.-ankhs chosen profession is software development with emphasis on games. merely calling them games does not diminish the fact they are a multi-million dollar industry and therefore real damage can be assessed.-law suits can be pursued on the basis of slander and defamation.-six months of mischaracterizing a non-event, spoongate. six months of false allegations regarding ankhs mental stability. all of which demonstrably injure ankhs ability to gain employment in her chosen profession.-it wouldnt take much of a lawyer to build a case which proved real damage incurred by ankh, willful conduct to cause it and a lack of legitimacy to allegations against her of instability and insanity.ankh did not misrepresent herself when she said she worked for ccp as a member of the csm. volunteer work is still classified as work. people put such things on their resumes all the time and it is perfectly legitimate.gently tossing a 3 inch long teaspoon down onto a table in someones direction to get their attention with a small amount of noise is a far cry from the allegation some of you are making. youve had opportunity to see and read the observations and opinions of csm delegates who were witness to the non-event. these delegates do not support the view of ankh doing anything more than that. they do not support the view that ankhs action was out of line with what was occurring at the referenced meeting. some of these same witnesses have told the public that the incident has been mischaracterized. the witnesses have stated that what happened was not something that would cast doubt upon the stability or control ankh possesses. despite this you insist on insinuating ankhs action was an act of violence directed as an assault and continue to use this manufactured lie to attack her level of mental stability.also, where did ankh say she thought people should be penalized in real life for what they do in a game?-windjammer"
"ankh gently tossed a 3 inch teaspoon down onto the table. it was done to make a small amount of noise to get the attention of someone at the meeting. a far cry from having a problem with reality. it could just as easily have been a pencil being tapped on the table or a rustling of paper and it would have meant exactly the same thing.ankh seems to have done this to stop something which was disrupting the meeting. it was a far better choice than interrupting the entire meeting to publicly correct someone and thereby embarrass them on a larger scale than necessary. the method ankh used was relatively discreet and low key and that speaks to her stability rather than lack of it.-windjammer"
"3 inch? at least twice as long. it is a tea spoon after all. if you are unable to estimate the length of a normal tea spoon and get remotely close to its actual size then maybe you should not defend it. ank is unstable. you and a couple others convinced of her expertise are the only ones defending her. the great majority of people that have spoken on this topic do not like her nor do they have any respect for her. and those that speak against her use their main characters. ank has not defended herself. easy answer....she can't. truth hurts. we are right. shut the **** up. by the way...if you would like to sit down and discuss this i am still open to it. :) post with your main or don't bother. coward."
"jeez, talk about beating a dead horse.while we are discussing we might aswel op a new thead about t20. just as relevant.one chestbeater trying to be the bigger chimp than the other chestbeater. only makes me wonder if you guys have to tend to your knuckels at night after a whole day of dragging them over the ground."
"its that time of year again and elections for csm 6 are just around the corner.as such i will be providing advertising space free of charge on my blog at"
"oh duh... and here i was thinking it is about your sorry butt being kicked out of geminate..."
"how about this gets introduced to hi-sec instead. new players can be automatically protected for some period, more established pilots would have to pay for concord protection on a cyclical basis, thereby putting a price on the security provided in hi-sec (as opposed to it being functionally free). protected-status could be an optional overview icon."
"would it surprise you if i said, \"no, i don't entirely agree with you.\"?i don't. and the reason.. it's really very simple actually: i'm fully confident that ccp is capable of addressing these issues; while managing to maintain there future expansion release schedules. the problems aren't nearly as bad as you make them out to be; most of what i've seen, is just gate camping on ccp's doorstep. a lot of issues are minimal impact issues, which can be addressed later; while the real existing issues, can be addressed as soon as reasonably possible.ccp doesn't need a system for dealing with content revival; they simply need to apply balances to what is already there. polish if you will. some content has been left unfinished; so, they should address that, and finalize it.so, what ccp really needs, is a core team of content fixers; a group that has one goal: look at existing content, and apply fixes and final features to it; starting with the content that doesn't deliver, and finishing with the content that 'needs a little polish'. they could even switch between the two; for a lighter workload, once in awhile. release all content fixes as minor patches, once per quarter; and move on to the next set of features that needs to be addressed.i would compare this, to the guy pushing a broom around a workshop; while the rest of the crew are still working, and tossing junk about. the more effort the work crew makes to keep their area tidy; the less effort is required, by the guy with the broom. 'broom guy' incidently gets to replace and reorganize tools, restock inventory; and a whole bunch of other little jobs, which are not unworthy of attention.a crew of 5-7 guys; could easily handle this."
"thumbs up for old issue that is still a problem.seriously, most of us spend all day staring at a computer. we have bad eyes. give us a break"
"the cyno effect still needs to be reworked in my opinion.i really miss the old one, it set apart what exactly a capital ship was vs dated gate technology."
"what a deceiption i was hoping for the tunnel of love back :((can we have any explanation for the removal? i still cant find any good reason :(its not so difficult, just put the old effect back!its been a long time people are complaining about it... well am i wrong or is ccp just ignoring us? :("
"/signed"
"supporting this so hard.i dislike the new sebiestors. >:"
"/signedi too dislike the sebiestor's look."
"/signedi agree the sebiestors are the worst, but there are flaws in other bloodlines, if there are no racial stats, what does it matter? just allow us to change the bloodline."
"/signedplease allow a bloodline change, the only thing is could mess up is rp, and is that really that important?"
"/signedi would not have picked my bloodline a year ago if i knew what it would be changed too."
"/signedi really don't like the new looks some of my alts got."
"i support this. when making a khanid female, if you hit random, most of the time the avatar will look like a boy. the best i could do was make myself look like a cross between a mongolian chipmunk and rosanne barr with the lights turn way down. this is entirely unlike my previous portrait who was definately nippon."
"i would like to take the time to point out that the usage of vherokior with the character i'm using to post says this.i made this character to be a science and industry alt. i wanted the highest intellect and memory i could get and for this and other stat-based reasons the vherokior race was superior to the one, or maybe two, others that were close. just like all the achura caldari stat *****s i too am a stat *****.that is what my choice of verokior says. at least that's what it said until ccp changed the game so that blood line no longer affected your attributes.item #3 of the portrait swap faq does not and should not apply to my character because:#1 what my choice of bloodline says about me is no longer valid due to changes made by ccp.#2 due to ccp not implementing a visually pleasing vherokior blood line it is currently impossible to \"fix elements (i am) not happy about\" without being able to pick a new blood line at the least and race at the worst.through ccp's own actions section three of that faq is no longer applicable to me. sadly, i doubt they would see it that way. as such this suggestion is supported"
"front page :)"
"agreed"
"1.0"
"i can't believe this exists as a legitimate petition-1"
"what? not into women?i don't understand why this is such a touchy subject for so many people. it's just boobs...they need to jiggle."
"some people just see the word \"boobs\" or \"breasts\" and then instantly translate this to \"omg sex\" which translates to their own sexual repression.in other words, they just can't handle a jiggy pair of ****."
"if you want to move from \"internet space ships\" to \"ultimate science fiction simulator\" i am afraid proper boob kinetics are an absolute must!!!"
"no, don't misunderstand. i'm into women. real women.anyway...do you really think this is necessary? you want the eve development team to take resources away from other projects so they can make \"boobie physics?\"please don't waste precious development time with something this ridiculous"
"i am pretty sure oveur doesn't think that way"
"all the jugs i have seen have been saggy, they must of used ******** as a template.."
"there is already a team that works solely on incarna...it is going to be that way for a while i am sure so you wouldn't be taking precious resources away from anything. that and i seriously doubt it would take much effort or time to make boobs jiggle a little."
"op may have just realised why it's taking the devs so long to come up with incarna.they're busy \"testing\" the character animations..."
"time for a flare up"
"blasters, increase tracking/thread"
"i think i read this somewhere in a dev blog or something but ccp said that they believe blasters are working as they should but they were wondering if the real issue is the fact that there is no way to close in on the enemy fast enough. so really what do you guys think, if there was a way to get close enough to the enemy and not be so ****ed tank wise. would that solve the problem? not sure what they are gonna do bought rails tho"
"uping the range bonus of the blaster t2 long-range ammo should solve the problem, making it a short to mid-range weapon like the others and not just a short to fail-range"
"bump."
"woooow"
"i'm not really sure what to think of this one; but hey, it does make a certain amount of sense. i do have a few concerns of course. i'm also not certain; as to the difficulties involved in implementation. maybe it's simpler than anyone really thinks; or, it may be hard, to nigh impossible, to bring into play.here is what i think is good about it:instead of each server tick requiring all events to play out in real time; the server runs through multiple ticks, prior to launching all events, for the next cycle. this is similar to old strategy games, in some respects; though, it wouldn't function in the same way, with command windows. the fraps thing is a cool idea. slowing down events, while maintaining decent fps; would make for the potential to get nice video's. unfortunately, it would also induce client-side lag; while making for huge files, and a significant amount of editing.and here's some things; i think would help:1.) implementation of a client side click prevention, would have to be implemented; so once a module has been activated, it highlights green, till the next server cycle, or click. highlighted like this, it will only send the server one additional command; which will prevent some of the requirement, for lag slowdown. the client side would then have to allow for a module deactivation; which will allow for a module shutdown cycle to begin, and would highlight red. so maximum to clicks per module/group; that could send commands to the server. you could denote this, with a second ring; which would be available in all gameplay. click the module, and the command is sent, and client informs you; click it again, and shutdown command is sent, and client informs you. nothing more will occur with that module, until the next tick, or cycle; or until it has finished its full timer cycle, in either case. once in shutdown, it will not accept any more commands, until it has shutdown; which makes things relatively simple, as far as that goes. that would eliminate the need to click on a module; until it shows some form of activation timer, sent back from the server. lag is bad that way.even if you know; its hard not to try anyway.2.) make the slowdown scalable if possible. as ships come into system, and fighting ensues; allow the server to scale the 'time dilation' effect as it is needed. 10 minutes, is a long time for a tick. each tick would occur as normal, without executing events or actions; until the server had run a full cycle of ticks. this would be the time dilation. the server would say, \"x number of ticks required, to activate all events without lag; becomes one cycle, for the purpose of handling lag in this system;\" and would then proceed to inform players that the system was moving into time dilation. for physics purposes, the server would slow down all physics events, to an appropriate level; and proceed to allow the last cycles events play out, while it takes commands for the next cycle. in this way, time dilation could occur as needed, anywhere; and would be based on the number of active pilots in a given system.3.) as systems become overloaded with pilots, communications could be blocked. regional markets would become inaccessible, local markets would be shut down, and chat entries would be limited to one text entry per cycle; which would be queued client side, like the module activation indicators. fleet communications, would be limited to external voice or text communications. this would occur as a result of system communications bottlenecks; preventing access to regional or constellation data streams, due to datanet bandwidth overloads. gates into and out of the system; would function based on the full cycle of ticks, as it plays out in system.it's conceivable that multiple systems could be effected by this; and the effect would spread outwards from the primary system effected. this would be to a lesser degree; and would slow down reinforcements called into system."
"^^"
"i totally agree i loled when i compared my hyperion with a chimera"
"remember the super star destroyer in star wars? in its introductory scene, it blotted out the sun.supported"
"fine, i'll support"
"a small change but a needed one."
"+1.ms are undersized."
"yes but make pos shield bigger aswell."
"wait a second. are you seriously suggesting that thoraxes give up their dmg bonus on 40% of their guns and drastically reduce their effective fighting range? really?please tell me you are being sarcastic."
"on the topic of rigs:i could live with rigs having more \"easy\", \"pragmatic\" or \"whatever\" reasons...something like:armor rigs have a penalty to shield amount and regenshield rigs come with a penalty to armor and hull amountdrone rigs should be like weapon rigs (better drone equipment on the ship requires more grid, right?)from a rping point of view it's totally feasible - more armor (armor rigs) means you have to drop shield support systems (shield hp and regen) and shield rigs means you need to drop some armor and hull plating in order to install those shield enhancements."
"supported, the very idea of having repair drones that cannot repair the host ship is and always has been stupid."
"okay, first of all if you are going to troll please include something to improve the thread. i admit this is a very controversial topic, but i personally think the mechanics of this needs to change.so without further ado...1. i propose that wardecs are changed so that the corp that started the war pays slightly more isk every week, this will make it so that griefer corps will not be able to continue wars forever and ruin the game experience.pros: will stop griefing warscons: will create a new isk sink (this could possibly be under both depending on the way you think about it)will make legit wars cost far more.or2. wars can only last a certain amount of time then they need a cooldown periodpros: again will prevent wars just for the sake of griefingcons: will make legit wars end at a certain pointor.3. just increase the war dec cost themselvespros and cons: same as the first option."
"i'd say 3. wardec cost 2 mil atm, with a starting point like that, slightly more every week hardly makes a dent. limiting time artificially wouldn't do much for griefer decs, which usually don't last long anyway, but will interfere with the handful of real wars between large alliances atm."
"the problem with it being 2 million is that i could mine that in a covetor in about an hour, which is nothing. it needs to be more around 10 million for a war-dec"
"mine? for an hour? 2 mil is shooting 2 rats. 10 mil is shooting 10 rats. have to be more than that to even make people pause and blink before dec."
"make wars cost more... make them start immediately."
"i admit that 2mil isn't much. but, it does go up by double every single week. my experience is that most wars don't last longer than 2 or 3 weeks before the agressor breaks up, or the victims find allies or disband. and those that start and stop over longer periods of time, do so with infrequency. and it costs much-much more to goto war against alliances, and they get wardecs frequently for all kinds of reasons. so, changing the ammount of isk won't change the fact that wars will be declared... the whole point of eve is thrashing folks who don't realize they are in your space. also the 2mil for corp vs corp warfare is to allow a low cost of entry for newb-corps wanting to declare war on other newb corps. honestly, i don't see what we'd get out of changing the mechanic in anyway. less war decs? more war decs? a better user experience for those who want to goto war? a worse experience for those who want to go to war? or a better or worse experience for those who are getting war declared on them? as it stands, those who are gearing up for war endure a 3 day process (calling the vote, concluding the vote, starting the war process and waiting) the last day of which the enemy is notified given 24 hours to prepare. after which they aren't gauranteed any conflict because 90 times out of 100 the people getting dec'd do everything in their power to avoid a fight including not logging in, moving to other corps, and staying inside stations (and they can't even walk in stations yet!) if they get a fight at all it probably will stay inside a station's docking perimeter and that's kinda lame. if you're lucky you might catch someone passing through a gate. what's really missing is a mechanic to conlude a war without the agressor retracting it willfully (often because the victim corp surrenders informally, or just out of boredom) which is often concluded as an invalidation when they no longer pay the concord war bill. what should be added to wardecs is a system of binding contract that offers a terms of surrender, in which the victor can claim isk or assets the other corp has in exchange for the rapid dismissal of the war, and a long prohibition that keeps the agressing corp from declaring war on the surrendered corp again for whatever agreed to time. a better warbill cost than the current system would be based on how many more members the attacking corp has over the victim corp. (so that even matches would cost less than insanely uneven ones.) but there would need to be a minimum cost as a baseline. but, it's not about the cost really, and since there isn't much worth taking/getting under the current system--players mostly declare wars for the lols, and the cost is really irrelevant. as far as griefing wars go, if a corp has earned another corps hatred to the point of griefing... they are playing for your corps extermination, and upping the cost of wars isn't going to change their goal at all. paying someone else to help you bloddy their noses might, but even that's not a gaurantee. tldr; overall, i go with option 4; create a mechanic for a peace contract that will quickly end a war, declare a winner, and enforce a gauranteed period of time in which the winning corp gains something for the victory, and is prevented from going to war with the victim corp for as long a period as agreed to in the contract."
"this only shows how much you actually know about the game mechanics. please, learn to play the game and the rules and then propose something."
"making wardeccing more expensive won't change anything, same as with every other mechanic. people have a ton of isk, corporations have two tons and alliances have s**ttons so it's not like they'll run out any time soon.forcing wars to end won't help much either. just need to make a secondary corp where members can jump to when the first corp is running out of war time.and how are these \"griefing wars\" not legit? or maybe to word that better which wars are not griefing wars? i bet the answer will be something along the lines of \"pvp corps deccing pve corps is griefing\" to which i might reply \"lol\""
"not supported. if someone wants to declare war on you they will pay the price whatever that may be. a high war dec fee might prevent new players from starting a war which would discourage pvp. not a good thing."
"there's low and null if you want pvp. griefing miners and haulers does not constituted pvp. with the current 2 mil fee, anyone can just go shoot 2 rats and fund a war."
"except that eve is built on conflict. pvp. also, remember, wars boost economy. more ship explosions is good for everyone."
"haha yes you are right of course . its more the case of ccp's attitude that i am concerned about."
"number of posts by finnagain zero: 61longest post: finnagain zero with 6588 charactersi will update these statistics as finnagain continues to rage post.finnagain, you have argued with absolutely everyone in this thread if they don't think exactly like you when it comes to jump bridges. i suggest you give it a rest. or if you prefer leet speak... stfu!"
"the main problem of jbs is not that they make logistic of a large empire too easy but to move ppl around half the universe in no time risk free is the real problem. nc has setup a network that is ridicoulus - taking this as example as there is the map posted, drf or it probally got some comparable network. but with your size combinded with the abilitie to be anywhere in your 9 region whide empire is just ridicoulus.jbs make it easy to reship and go back to the fight risk free this makes it even harder for small alliances that dont have a jb network at their dispossal to win fight cause the powerblocks will just throw ships at you till you have been driven of the field. titans can do that too, but itll be tougher to setup 5+ titans from the alliances hub to the far boarders.boost jfs all the way, but itll be fun again to roam through .0 space and see ppl use gates.i do think that jbs where in general a good idea but when your whole blue list is able to use makes it hard to balance. it would be a great asset to small alliances to move around in .0 space. but it becomes a problem when large empire/powerblocks combine their efforts and menpower to exploit its benefits to death."
"maybe jb's need a different uses getting rid of them in null and making them useable in wh to link systems that a corp or alliance may occupy."
"i read it as ccp asking \"how far can we go if necessary to fix 0.0 'force projection' etc?\"doesn't mean they will go as far as removing them. just means that they will include them on their list of options for improving the 0.0 experience."
"again, eve is based on player-created, player-driven conflict. if people choose not to fight in certain circumstances, that's part of sandbox play, too. and again, teleporting people to arenas in jove space, automatically, when they log on would also see lots more pvp. just because a change may (possibly) increase the amount of pvp that goes on, doesn't mean that it's a good idea. see, that's okay (ish). it's still not a terribly good idea, but could be argued on the ideas merits alone. complicating matters here, however, is ccp's stated position that regardless of how player-created politics work, small alliances \"should\" be independent. why? the game's content is created by players, and if they want to fight to dominate every inch of 0.0, then that's how the game will work. same with introducing changes designed to try to make groups, who are currently cooperating, more likely to tear each other apart. people are, largely, in support of that because they personally like small scale pvp. but others like large scale pvp. if the only real argument is \"boost small scale pvp because i like it and what i like it good for the game.\" if there's another dev who decides \"large scale combat is really what's best\" then the \"boost smale scale\" crowd is left without an argument. once you accept that ccp can decide who is sandboxing 'wrong', then all you have is hope that the way you and your buddies play isn't something that ccp is going to decide needs opposing. remember zulu's \"nerf carriers\" propoal."
"worst case scenario for those who rely on jump bridges to do logistics and power projection is ccp just removes them and they have to put effort back into it.finnagain, you just need to calm the **** down bro. remember this is not finnagain-online. there are other people who play this game you know. 0.0 is **** right now and you ****ing know it. your just scared of change. did you play the game before jump bridges?even if ccp just takes the easy route and deletes jump bridges from the pos' and removes bridging from titans and does no other changes at all, it still would be infinity better than the pile of steaming dog **** for 0.0 we have now.---------------------------finnagain post count in this thread: 62"
"so what are you doing in response?do you really not understand what ccp/csm are trying to do?your opinion i assume.are they they supported by the player base? read this thread it is clear that while many do many don't. we are talking about the way ccp/csm are trying to fix things not the very fact they are trying to fix.yet again your opinion that \"he correctly notes\" this may well be the case of course.the professed goal? this is highly subjective. do you really feel that removeing player created networks using sanctioned and functioning game mechanics make the game \"more eve\"?your analogy is outrageously stupid and quite frankly is not suitable.you are the troll. anyone can see that."
"speaking of which; i still haven't supported this. allow us some compromise finn, and form an argument based on your own thoughts; without quoting, and casting down other peoples thoughts. we've been trying to make you see something very simple: this is not about coalitions, or sandbox play; it's about restricting alliance mobility. the reason coalitions may fall apart, isn't because ccp is going to make an effort to destroy them; it's because you, and your friends, will find less reason to maintain them. this is entirely up to you, and your mates; and there is no mechanic, that can make it otherwise. it's a player driven choice; that exists outside of gameplay, and cannot be changed by it. what will change it, is having your allies fly a large fleet through your space, to assist in a battle; giving opportunities for diplomatic incidents, or even, them not flying at all. suddenly, they don't have the time to make that effort; and remain in their own space, guarding their own borders. this is what will hurt coalitions, and create friction. not the modification or removal of a game mechanic; but the value of allies decreasing in importance. alliances will be put firmly back within their own borders and space; rather than making trips, that should require flying straight accross empire, to assist you. they won't have the time to make that trip; or will leave themselves vulnerable, to assist you.edit for reference:previous post:"
"just got killed by the nc using jump bridges to set up multiple camps when people manage to slip away from them.and i can see why finnagainzero is so anxious to keep them and prevent this game going to ****.i mean if you couldnt hop around your space in an instant you might actually have to think about where your fleet is and maybe all those empty systems might actually have people in them instead of leaving half of 0.0 a barren wasteland. i shudder to think of the implications.that man is a hero."
"remove jump bridges? absolutely not. this is, by and far, the worst idea i've heard that came from the csm. this even beats the awful \"replace titans with monster trucks\" issue brought up by mazz."
"yea, he was considering turning them into logistics/support platforms for fleets by restricting fighter usage.guess what has happened a few years after he was treated insanely badly by the null crowd: carriers are used as logistics in 95% of all cases and only some even carry fighters.null failed incredibly hard in their assault on him. zulu was right on the money, 2+ years ahead of the \"oh so holy\" player content .. wonder if it might be that ccp knows what they are doing at least some of the time."
"these issues have nothing to do with sandbox. the choice will remain with the players whether to be part of a super coalition or look after their alliances intrests. your particular decision does not reflect a lack of choice.i fully support additional gameplay value in 0.0, the removal of jumpbridges and any other changes that provide more risk and pvp to 0.0."
"the eagle being useful would be nice.."
"what's the root of problem ? ccp hate gallentean ? how about caldari rail boats ?as for diversity, make railguns rapid fire long range weapon. problem solved. its rapid use of charge make it different from lasers, and its rapid use of cap make it different from projectiles. it'd also be unique in that it rely on long bursts rather then alpha or sustained dps.laser - no reloads, highest dps.projectile - large alpha, slow rof and no need to reload.rails - fires 20 shells in 10 second bursts then spend 10 second reloading. highest dps during burst, second overall dps.unique enough for you ?for details on this idea:"
"is this not obvious? it is blob fights! everyone wants more range or more dps on ranged weapons. however, fights need to be moved closer together and not more dps given to ranged weapons (or more range to high-dps weapons). the core philosophy was and is that range is bought for dps. railguns are fine, blob wars are not. fights need to be more 1:1 so that pilots can distinguish themselves through excellent skills, fitting and piloting. blob fights turn players into puppets and will destroy pvp, when every fight is not more than a game of who has got more numbers. in mass 1:1 fights can the best players come out on top, in blob wars is success and failure based on random chance. at best does blobbing kill the brave and supports the wimp. this is not what you want."
"tottaly suport the idea i was impressed how much ccp forgot to allow reps drone to heal their mothership"
"please god yes?"
"agreed"
"i support the idea of doing something.the goon is right that bot programs will take like 30 seconds to adjust.plus, i have to wonder if the op has ever even mined in nullsec, because any hulk out there is going to be set up to permatank double or triple bs spawns -- you'd need more than 1 bs to pop in to cause problems.rorqs already provide monster bonuses. i do support requiring them to be on grid to provide the boni. seems to me this should be the case for all gang links; pretty dumb having unprobeable lokis boosting a gang on the other side of a system...anyways, there have to be 50+ fix mining threads over the past... 5 years? since it was created and has basically been unchanged. if ccp gave a ****, they'd go thru them and brainstorm and workshop the ideas into something good. but, they're tired of this game and more interested in wod and dust.so it goes."
"i like the \"adaptive\" belt rat idea.even putting the bot part of the issue aside, it adds an interesting dynamic to the game. double points because it's added to a mind-crushingly dull (but necessary) part of the game."
"im in on this !and i would like to extend it to include wh-space making it a good idea to have guards on hand for those too"
"not bad, overall a good idea.the only problem i have with adaptive rats would be newbies. a couple week old character mining in a frig would have some issues with rats.other then that, i love the idea of actually being able to pull off a low sec mining op. i think if you where to take your idea...and merge it with my idea the mining problem could be fixed. for the sake of gratuity here's a link to my idea.for a quick summery, i suggested a more interactive form of mining...possibly even a new mining barge class...something like a dread that can 'lay seige to asteroids' what if these seige miners cause incursion spawns....mega bucks for pvp'rs and escorts as well as mega minerals for miners+1 man, awesome concept"
"this would do nothing to combat macro mining.if the adaptive spawns were worth enough, they would just add a macroed drake to kill them. if they werent, they would just be programmed to warp off when they spawned and return later. worse case, they just refit the macro-hulks to tank the spawns."
"having bots scramed, even if for a small time, increases the chance for them to be caught by roaming gangs. supported.ofc they could fit wcs, but at the expense of mining upgrades, so it would still hurt botters bottom line."
"+1scrams and faster, stronger npcs must be a part of the solution...if nothing it will make them to loose some mining upgrades..."
"proposal is to add remaining game time counter no matter what method you are paying with.preferably down to the hour"
"i am of course talking of thisi liked this feature a lot on sisi and it seems to me there are many like-minded people similarly disappointed with the lack of it in the 3rd part of the incursion deployment.i for one would immediately switch to using it and playtest the **** out of it.it was on sisi a few weeks ago, so the code should be ready for deployment as it was.even if it wouldn't get many updates for some time being, i am convinced that ccp really wants to overhaul the ui completely (why refactor the ui background else), so i would love to be able to playtest, give feedback and supply you guys with bugreports to that end.anything to get a nice looking, usable, customizable ui!"
"supporting myself."
"they have to fix the obvious mistake they made first, predicting it's arrival in the summer patch."
"i'm not so sure cause all we have right now is an statement in general discussion that it was pulled for some reason.at least they could have updated the topic about it in the information portal."
"signed."
"confirming i would be much more likely to give money to ccp if they updated the ancient ui."
"it was removed as it had an exploit in it that would give an unfair advantage to people using it over people who didn't, and yeah some information would be nice but just like their \"known issues\" page it's devoid of useful information."
"i wanted to use that neocom so bad :("
"didn't know that but if that's true it kinda is understandable why it wasnt deployed.still, some dev communication would be very much appreciated, i'd hate to see this go the way of engine trails and cyno effects."
"throwing my support in here. if it was indeed removed because of it being exploitable (or a similar valid reason beyond simple complaints), what should be done is find a way to fix it, put it back on again as an optional feature, and allow us to test it farther. obviously if the 'exploit' is simply because the new neocom is superior, then it would have to be put back on sisi or applied to all players (mandatory) on tranq. neither option is very good for proper testing, but the eve ui /needs/ a revamp, it's clunky and outdated."
"whoops, forgot to check the support box."
"guys, what are you guys whining about? i just saw a ccp post yesterday saying that both the incursion code and the new ui is in this patch. it's just disabled because it's still very experimental and they wanted to delay it till the 25th. i don't think this thread has any point."
"supported."
"oh? never saw that, it'd be nice if it was an official announcement. maybe a link, please?"
"yeah link please.i only saw thisso, is it there and not activated or was it pulled? it's a very ambiguous statement at best.i understand it as pulled which makes me afraid we won't hear of it again for a very long time if ever."
"definitely need proof on that. ccp has already said the feature was pulled."
"i wrote recently a topic about a similar thing and that i have received me has surprised and very much it was pleasant to me.read this post and open screenshot in it. i think that changeable models of the ships would be the big loading on a server and client part of game, but it would be magnificent. possibility to change model of the ship we see now on an example of the t3 ships....i think that it would be better, to put such tool in hands of production-role players.to give new level of freedom and happiness for industry characters, consisting in possibility not only to fill with the production the market, but also fill it with unique production with own design - unless it isn't beautiful?times change. it will be all the same game about spaceships, but not only about them. it will be also about pilots who control them. -)"
"i agree with your take on the matter and i like your ideas you posted. i think your system would work and is indeed how many of the systems that do allow configuration work."
"customization #1:alliance and/or corp logo on hulls.that or text. i'll be honest i just want to see an oeg rokh with \"my other alliance is a red alliance\" on it."
"if all ship customizations are done locally on your own client, based on your own locally stored settings, then it will not add to lag in any way. forcing other people to see and load your custom ship will add to lag. in one word, you can see the customisation - others can't see your customisation (unless you make a screenshot or a video clip). every individual can enjoy his own custom look while at the same time not creating additional server load.if it's all done this way, i can support it.however, some of the customizations mentioned are not such an easy task. for example, i can assume that changing turret positions or making every ship modular would require some major changes in the rendering engine, so don't expect it to be implemented any time soon. corporation/alliance logos on ships and custom predefined paint jobs could be much easier to implement."
"speaking of the new character creator...let me take my pants off!when you go through the new character creator it won't let you take a picture unless you are wearing pants and shoes.i want to teabag the universe and these pants are in the way!"
"if ccp doesn't start fixing content that was hyped only last year, then dumped for the new shinny,then we'll all end up on some pirate server somewhere playing apocrypha.commit to fixing your broken releases!"
"actually, if you try to activate a remote repair module on a mission rat in high security space on tranquility today, you'll get a concordokken warning requesting confirmation.there have been a few times when i almost lost my mission because i targeted my remote repair modules on a rat instead of a fleetmate, and the game asked me for confirmation."
"qft! go ahead ccp. make a decent change to the game."
"not supported...(neutral)rr are one of the biggest \"exploits\" currently ingame...make anyone ading a flagged (even neutral rr's) criminel or criminal npc go *pouf* instead"
"neutral rr don't get concorded to begin with. changing it to concord them will break the game, as you will then be able to get rr concorded without even getting yourself concorded. people like you need to use your brain more, and open your mouth less."
"supported, the way it gets implemented will be open to abuse as ccp don't really have a clue."
"agreed."
"this could be carried over to all non-aggression, defensive maneuver's in my opinion; such as tracking link's, player assisting ewar. this, provided aggression counters are set, and they become targets capable of being attacked; but not criminal targets to be concorded, i see it as a possible solution. the reason for this, is wardeccing fleets, with non-fleet, non-corp/alliance rr/ewar assist; which will then be leveraged to advantage in a given situation, without the potential of being concorded. direct aggression ewar, would then be considered potential for concord; but on the 'sent home' level, without ship destruction. this way, players could assist other individuals, without directly being involved; without being concorded for their efforts, and losing there ships. destructive aggression, should be concordable; not that which simply assists an attacking or defending ship. concord should break up the fight, and destroy the original attacking party; not destroy everything on site, with exception to the guy being ganked, or the industrial wartarget being obliterated. chances are, he's not going to survive anyway. if the target is the subject of a wardec; they should be able to receive assistance. this might save the wardec mechanism to some degree; where, as it stands, it's a free-for-all griefing mechanism./supported"
"(emphasis supplied)no. these threads are ridiculous. ccp is the one receiving subscription dollars, and they are the ones who need to solve this problem."
"+1this could be nice base for solving the problem."
"i'm fairly certain you've never been able to eject from a pod. and in either case, you can still self-destruct it if you want to pod yourself."
"you could with incursion 1.1. it was an unintended feature."
"alright, we all hate blobs, hotdrops, and just generally funsucking pvp. many players hate pirates, but everyone that pvps wants more tactics and skill to be involved.so here is the source of every pvp problem eve has ever had:killmailsnow some of you are going to say 'how could killmails possibly be the source of all this bad pvp?' and my answer to that is:killmails encourage blobbing. people don't want to lose, people want to let other people know they lost even more. so their solution is to bring anyone they can to every fight they attend so that they aren't the one blowing up. many people assume this is some aversion to losing ships and isk that leads to this mentality, but what it is an ingrained idea that being on the killmail for something is a good thing, no matter how many other people were also shooting at that same target.killmails encourage gate camping. gate camps are one of the oldest forms of 'piracy' in the game and are still very popular. gate camps are what happens when you want lots of killmails to bolster your killboard. nobody ever really looks at how lame or onesided your kills are, so you can be proud of having a hundred shuttles, industrials, or solo pvpers on it.killmails encourage jamming. i was in a fight 6 to 1 recently, myself being the 1 of course. even with 2 eccm iis fitted, i was still pretty much permajammed throughout the fight. people use ecm and other ew to compensate for a lack of having an even bigger fleet. would they have killed me without it? absolutely, but i could have taken one or two with me. again the killmail whoring is to blame.killmails encourage hotdropping. for much the same reasons as it encourages blobbing. people want the easy killmail and bringing overwhelming force is the best way to get them.so what are the benefits of keeping killmails? being able to use them to generate a pay system for your 'security' division. is that enough? hardly.do your part to bring fun back into eve's pvp and support this move to completely remove killmails and anything like them from eve. there is absolutely no reason to keep them and they take away what pvp is supposed to be about:hurting other players.i am val'dore, and i'm a pvp addict standing up against killmails."
"perfectly stated."
"kill mails are hardly the reason for blobbing and the use of the over powered ecm mechanic./not supported"
"what a well though out argument.....seriously you use a negative of the argument as your pointon the op i dont see a problem with this, if your a lowsy pilot and you lose a ship a day yet still manage to make ever op with guns blazing i really dont care, what i do care is that some one sees your ship loses and gooes \" ha ha you suck dude\" well what if that guys been flying the black bird for the fleets and is generaly one of the first ones to go"
"supported. before kms, the process of the fight mattered, not just the outcome. pvp was done for fun, even if you lose. now, it's about km farming in blobs and extreme risk aversion because it'll mess up your kb record. it sucked the fun right out of pvp. \"pvp\" is now more like work, you're farming kms in a camp/blob, instead of farming isk. the only difference is you kill a lone noob once per hour instead of a few rats per minute, and is thus more boring than pve."
"you may have a point, but you may not. overall, i don't support it. the real factor in eve pvp is isk-damage. at the end of the day, you could delete all the killmail boards, and tatics would still evolve to allow you to prevent isk damage to yourself and your corp/alliance, while maximizing isk damage against your enemies--this includes gathering your fleet to be formidable against all kinds of situations--because when you warp in on one hostile you never really know if they are all alone... in fact, when you've got a nice fleet together you hope they aren't! (but they usually are which is kinda sad.) even without a kb history, a corp will quickly come to realize who the best/worst pilots are within their ranks based on participation and effectiveness in pvp situations. with a kb history, you can evaulate recruits before you accept them, and gain intel on enemies before you fight them. so, i like them. i do agree with you that gatecamping is kinda lame, but that's about protecting borders and turf, and the industrials and destoyers who get killed there are like civilians who don't understand they shouldn't haphazardly enter combat zones just because its a frakken combat zone. (they even get a warning if they haven't turned it off because lowsec and wh and 00 are dangerous enviroments) the groups there would rather get opposition and are expecting it, but since they don't get opposed frequently, they are prone to shoot at anything that moves. at the end of the day, i think km's are nice to have but aren't everything. the real driving force in eve is a desire to inflict iskdamage, and prevent iskdamage, and to do both in ways that are fun to you and your allies. loosing isn't fun (most of the time), and winning is, so go out there and win-win-win! and that sensation can be felt over and over again without the precision metrics of killboards."
"what kind of isk damage is farming noob industrals off gatecamp? besides, isk factor was constant before and after km got implemented, yet the nature of pvp changed a lot. this can only point to presence of kbs, the only thing that changed."
"whelp, your opinions can safely be ignored.we have orcas serving as empire pirate carriers. we have seen the death of old style doomsdays, the rise of ahacs, the rise of drakefleet, the end of battleships, the return of battleships, fighter-bombers, bomb launchers, the end of sensor damps, and the inevitable march of time that expands everyone's skill pool and grinds down the very souls of men with repetition.and you insist that the only thing that has changed is killmails?"
"only this time, ppl won't have to worry about taking even one loss on their killboard. without the \"risk\" to the killboard, there's no reason to stack as many odds in your favor, and if really wanted good fights like u said, that's what'll happen. and the best part? u can stick with a frigate and voila--no isk dmg to yourself. what's that? u might lose one? without a killboard, what r u so afraid of? if anything, ppl evaluate by sp and what the recruit can fly/fit. no one cares about ability since most pretty much jumped on the bandwagon and accepted blobbing/pve ship farming. so killboard stats r irrelevant to recruitment, unless they have \"bad\" stats because they don't blob/farm pve ships, aka take risk. another reason why killmails just hinders pvp. so what exactly is a low sec gate camp protecting? 'cause sovereignty isn't claimable by players there. and on the contrary, they do expect opposition--that's why they have scouts on the other side of the gate to run from anything that might put up a fight.isk damage is irrelevant. even if ships were free (and in the case of frigates, they pretty much r), most ppl wouldn't bother using them 'cause it'll risk a killboard loss. in order to win, someone has to lose and when both sides become risk-averse to the point where they will not engage each other and just simply gank easier targets, there's a problem. ppl chest-beat about their quantity of kills, not quality. in fact, any pirate smacking in local will do exactly that."
"wrong. it should be the main factor, but it isn't. pirates don't kill to cost someone else isk. alliances don't go to war to cost someone else isk. they do these things to pad their killboards with kills.it is the fps mentality in eve, a game as far from being an fps as you can get and still be a singular interactive entity. it is a well documented fact that statistics based on quantity of kills (usually ignoring quality) only serve to promote play styles that facilitate the further obtaining of those statistics at the cost of everything else. pvp in eve is infected with this plague. the first question anyone asks after a kill is:who got the killmail?followed by:send me a copy and/or link it.players no longer care about the actual fight itself, they only care about their name being on the kill mail.the kpd 'high' would be gone, allowing players to feel more comfortable losing. i myself have a killboard record that most people would consider atrocious, mainly because i don't wait for the odds to be stacked in my favor before i dive in. i play for the fight, not the killmails. if everyone who currently plays only to keep their killboard score going up was suddenly unable to do so, what do you think would happen?i'm not against fleets, i'm against their entire purpose being killmail farming. there are entire corporations and alliances that exist only to farm killmails. that is ridiculous.then just engage with part of your fleet. or is that concept too foreign in eve? the idea that someone might wait in reserve instead of everyone trying to ***** onto the killmail. where is the downside to playing to have fun rather than to have a slightly better set of stats?yes, and without 'hard statistics', things like legends can be born or destroyed. nothing i see on a killboard impresses me and i certainly don't go through individual kills to find the actual fights worth knowing about. there are plenty of other and better tools to evaluate potential recruits... like what their previous corp thought of them. killmails don't tell you anything useful really, other than that a fight happened somewhere and someone blew up.actually, in my experience, most of the time they aren't looking for a real fight. when one comes, they bail if at all possible... or hotdrop a rescue in. some people do have that motivation, but many more don't.almost every fight i actually had fun fighting ended up a loss for me.killboards aren't necessary."
"because of killboard.when you fail to provide a solution or even insight into a complex and multilayered problem, use convoluted logic to prove that a single item is the cause of it all so you can focus your rage on it."
"yerp good idea"
"it is simple psychology. people are generally more afraid of looking bad than actually being bad. the current killmail system doesn't really weed out bad players from good ones, so bad players look better on a killboard than they really are, which only amplifies the problem. but you go right on ahead and think there is a more altruistic reason for all this. it's kind of cute."
"although i agree the system is not perfect, i must admit however killboards are extremely handy in many circustances although it encourages a few sorts of bad behavior.i'd like to see a system that a non combat ship can be rewarded as well such as a cov ops that scouts ahead for targets among others or even someone that baits a gang into gcc."
"if those are 'getting intel on enemies' or 'checking out potential recruits', it isn't worth keeping them for it."
"nice troll, i'll give 2/10. not that it really makes any sense to blame the state of the game, life in the universe and perhaps even your personal problems all on one single symptom... killmails. but i'm sure you'll find some epic supporters... as for me... opposed, sorry."
"the mere fact that there were times where pvp was more fun in spite of the existence of kms is a first hint that there might be other reasons. has it occured to you that changes in mechanics, balancing and demographics might have a much greater impact on the state of pvp? what killmails represent today is a symptom of that, not a cause.of course picking a single item and putting all the blame on it has its appeal, as you can avoid having to come up with a true solution."
"3/10, a destroyer can enter your troll.i never claimed every player in the game has killmailitosis. but it is not a symptom since pvp revolves around it.mechanics only change the tools used. balancing only changes the flavor of the tools used, and demographics are already what i'm talking about. pvp is the way it is now because it always has been this way on one form or another since killmails existed (and they always have to my knowledge).anyone who has ever played an fps or an mmo with some kind of ranking pvp system already knows what i'm talking about.i put the blame on the players, the solution is on the killmails."
"the complete removal of kill/lossmails is a bit over the top, but changes need to be made.perhaps killmails should be limited to like 10 pilots, or those who inflicted very minimal damage shouldn't appear on the killmail? there comes complications when electronic warfare ships and tacklers with like 2 webs come into the kill, as they may not deal much damage, but they sure are useful. this could be sorted out, though."
"no they don't. next suggestion, please."
"not supported. we use killboards as a first line of defense to weed out terrible pilots, and trust me...killboards will show if an applicant is a terrible pilot. maybe not with 100% accuracy, but some accuracy atleast.it allows you to browse the pilots fitting history, and evaluate if he has any idea on how to fit and fly his/her ship.ofc, more than kb ratings count, each of our pilot must demonstrate a solo-kill combat record to be admitted, how will said pilot be able to prove himself to us that he infact has 5 solo kills if no combat record exists?"
"nah it's those killboards that give you 100% of the credit even if you do %2 of the damage. if you are a slacker in the fight then you should look like a slacker on the killboard.this might hose tacklers and reppers though. and we need to give our tacklers and reppers encouragement!also ewar is the new cap neuting. people do it because it works. i don't think that has anything to do with killmails."
"well, in that vein, making it so only the top damage dealer (and possibly final blow) shows on the killmail. that might do some good, basically making them useless except as competitions to see who can get one of those two spots. i still think nuking them entirely is the best route.you are incorrect.don't we all.sorry, this is eve.demonstration of this perhaps? the only way it might work that way is if you judge a fit from a loss. but then not everything would be in context.so does asking him to link his fits. history is never a good gauge for the present without taking the present and history in context.one 1v1 can prove everything you need to know about him.killboards don't seem to care where you are on the kill, but then there are a lot of killboards and nobody is going to use (or even make) one that will lower their score. there is a reason those killboards don't exist.i agree in principle, but my opinion of getting rid of them entirely overrides any relevance to that as far as i'm concerned.it has everything to do with killmails. why risk one ship out of ten dying to the solo guy (and thus making your killboard status worse) when all your ships can just carry ecm drones and make it impossible for him to be a threat?"
"do i get a killmail for killing them?"
"some good discussions here....we judge a fit from a loss, if the applicant is deemed a good pilot and there is an odd fitting there, we might inquire about it. our pilots must demonstrate some willingness to die, and having a combat record with one loss is not enough.he can link his fits, does not show that he has ever used said fits as they can be imported into game. also, how can we tell if the pilot is telling the truth? it's always a two pronged approach, first you verify that the pilot is capable, next he must be a match for our current pilots and fit mentally into our group.errrrmmm no....our applicants must demonstrate a real ability, an arranged 1v1 proves nothing, and does not tell if the pilot has common sense, and is clever. we require a track record, where the pilot has killed a ship bigger than the class he's flying....no way to do this without a killboard, or a way to track a pilot combat record."
"im sorry but i disagree. for one, people use ew to have an advantage over another group whether its jamming or cap sucking. second, gate camps hapen because the group wants to blow stuff up. there is no honor in having 100 shuttles on your killboard. it was just done to blow stuff up."
"no, falcon being op is to blame. caldary e-war being op like **** is to blame."
"before going on to why removing killmails would be bad, lets look at your hypthosis first.don't you think its funny that pretty much every person, some very smart ones among them, agrees that what is making pvp less fun are the current mechanics, balancing issues and demographics i mentioned?people don't want to lose anyway, in eve death has consequences, killmails are not the reason people try not to die. the largest blobs are made by 0.0 alliances which fight over territory, moons and supercaps. even without killmails they'd still be blobbing each other as much as possible, because they are fighting over something and because the mechanics don't promote other courses of action. oh, but you have been missing out on a lot of good stuff that motivates pirates or gate campers: ransoms, tears, fat loot or the sheer fun of shooting somebody in the face.too easy. that still sounds like 1) people don't want to die and 2) balance issue.right, it could not have anything to do with bigger alliances wanting to curb stomp small entities in their backyard while they are still weak, i.e. strategical reasons. nor would it have anything to do with the ease and speed with which you can currently drop cynos on people (note the proposals on cyno changes in ah).wait, your alliance pays pvpers for doing what they do??ok, now lets talk about removing killmails.having played fps games in clans that managed to place players in the world cyber games multiple times i can assure you that comparing fps games and eve in this context is wrong.in fps a single death is meaningless but rankings are a vital function in a competitive community. in eve a single death can have a lot of consequences, while rankings don't make sense, do not officially exist, and have zero influence on the game mechanics per se. kilmails and killboards can hardly be called ranking systems, even if some try to do it, but rather activity and event trackers. the problem with killmails is that they are the only token players get for being involved in a confrontation. it is the only way for outside people to grasp the events that happened and the implied consequences. you take that away and you lose a great deal of what details eves history; your suggestion is akin to going back from written history to word-of-mouth propagation, past events get degraded to lore and are eventually forgotten.that is the meaning of killmails for eve as a whole. on an individual level, they are the only (and i agree bad) measure of pvp success and only lasting evidence of that event. people are competitive by nature, you have to give them something for epeen measurement. some people only pvp for the killmail, which i don't have a problem with. pvp is what drives the eve universe and less pvp would be bad.so while i think the current killmail system has many flaws, you can't take it away if you don't replace it with something better."
"i hate killmails, personally, because they give a very petty reason to pvp in this game. i would like to see pvp to be more about isk, power, and every now and then for the lulz, rather than e-peen size.i support getting rid of killmails for this reason."
"+1 agreed, pvp should be about strategic control of territory, not decorating a board.the ego of a few people is so not worth gimping pvp."
"i think we should go back to the, \"people don't want to lose...\" part; which is where i think you were most correct. i agree that there is some aspect of your argument, that is valid; and that would be the whole killboard padding part of pvp. how many of those kills/fights would happen; if killmails didn't exist? i'm actually pretty sure almost all of them. killboard padding is something i've always heard of in a mythical sense; yet, never been truly witness too, in the real sense. lot's of people say; other people do it.there are lots of reasons to pvp. one of my best losses, doesn't even show up on battleclinic; because i was brought down by a gate gun. the fact that i was engaging a target, that had wardec`d a friends corp; isn`t even on their, as they never fired back, or had a chance too. i had them ecm`d out with my scorp; to allow their target to get away. it didn`t work, but it was the most honorable fight i`ve been in. orca`s are incredibly slow to align, unfortunately.there were no blob`s involved in that one, and the brutix killed the orca; and i get concorded for my efforts, with the amaar gate gun`s help. no blob`s on either side; even for the one that was `padding` their killboard. going after a wt in an industrial, in highsec; after wardeccing an indy corp. foolish for the orca to be flying, of course; but he figured the wardeccing corp only had one pilot. it did, but they just ran a locator agent regularly; so they knew when someone was moving. the interesting part, is that the wardeccing party, returned everything from the kill; which, with insurance, just about cleared a new orca.i think the actual killmail issue is a small one; and one that will exist regardless. if it`s smack talk in local, or for the lol`s; it will still happen with regularity. maybe i`ve missed something.. there are still plenty of roaming gangs in lowsec, aren`t there? small highsec wardeccing gank corps? nullsec ganksquad's? to be honest, i've only ever seen a 'real' blob once; and that was because i went out looking for it. everybody knew where to find it of course; so i popped on my alt, and flew into it. i was, unfortunately, late to the party; and the only thing left, were coalition alliance corps, from the other side of empire, guarding the gates. one of those gaste blob's blew me up, in short order; and podded me safely back to highsec, where i belonged. i suppose i never really 'saw' the blob; just the little one on the gate. that 'little' was some 60-70 coalition ships; half afk, and half firing on everything that popped through. not blues of course; but everyone else. they got quite a few kills that night; most of them neutrals in shuttles, and frigates, and the like.despite what it may seem, thats not killboard padding; it's preventative maintenance, of a sort. keeping the battlefield clear; while their coalition allies clean up the mess. meaning, get the loot. dropping ships coming in; prevents losing loot to them. it's simple enough logic, really; and who can blame them.so, while i don't entirely disagree with you; i'll have to decline support for now."
"fully supported."
"and none of this requires the use of killmails. require the applicant to fly with you for awhile before being allowed to join or even shadow him in a recon. this works as good or better than killboard perusal.it will be pretty obvious once you move passed the written test won't it.then use a trial period. killboards won't tell you anything about that.naturally.who says it has to be arranged?fair enough, but this is only necessary because there are killboards for you to use.so now you are going to tell me that killboards are enforcing honorable pvp? troll much?i won't argue the ecm mechanics, as it really isn't what this topic is about, but i do think eccm needs an adjustment. you might be surprised at how many people freely admit they use ecm only to maximize their killboard record though. i'm not just making this stuff up."
"you are wrong. i don't want to lose, not because of some imaginary fear of looking bad at some faceless nobodies who would look at my killboard. i don't want to lose, because of the isk loss.pvp is fun, but every time i lose a ship, i know there will be a lot of boring ratting to earn that isk to buy a new ship."
"don't you think it is funny that i already knew the people who would be the most adamant about keeping killboards and killmails ingame are the same ones who are addicted to them? i'm not talking about the reason big groups blob, i'm talking about the reasons individuals blob. do you really think the player base would tolerate the insane lag if there was no chance of ever being on a killmail?i know what motivates pirates, the real ones anyway.as i said, mechanics only determine the way people go about doing what they are already going to do. what does curb stomping small alliances have to do with hotdropping nyx fleets in low sec?my alliance, no.this part is hearsay and grand standing. tell that to kpd addicts. they are rampant in eve too btw.it doesn't matter if they officially exist if everyone on them knows about them.maybe that is another problem needing to be addressed separate from this issue?i think you are overstating the importance of killmails for this. none of the eve history i know has anything to do with killmails. if history is so important to us, we need historians.eve is a sandbox, or is supposed to be one. giving people a reason to fight is always a bad thing in a sandbox. let them make up their own reasons.like what? what could it possibly be replaced with that won't just be the same problem under a different guise?"
"it does happen. it happens a lot more than you might think even. and a lot of 'fights' that happen now wouldn't happen if killmails were nuked, because a lot of people fight only because of their killboard.that sounds like a reason to remove them. all of those exist primarily to get fast and easy killmails. nobody has any actual fun ganking someone else. it's fun for nobody, but people will generally always go for the killmail if that is the choice they face.as before i didn't say everyone pvps only for killmails. there are plenty of other reasons to fight, i just don't think killmails should be one of them."
"then why are you fighting?risk is the name of the game."
"because i know that if i blow someone up they will lose isk and will have to deal with boring part of the game."
"dude, seriously, there are dozens of reasons. one of the most important being that in eve fights have consequences and their implications. so you do want your alliance to win a fight. your alliance, corp and friends expect you to help. hell, you might even be looking for the fight because you might actually have fun, lag or not. i'm really starting to have doubts about your claimed pvper status...oh, so you classify them into real and fake ones. good boy. why don't you give examples of each? when they asked bill clinton why he had his shenanigans with monica, he replied \"because i could\". some goes for super cap fleets in low sec, and because its a bit of fun to distract from the usual non-events in 0.0. again, what allows supercaps to be in low-sec are a game mechanic, and mechanics can be changed.i think your lack of vision is limiting your ability to grasp what your proposed change would cause. it shows again when you can't see the connection between eves history and killmails as the only current account of what happened in battles, which are the main events shaping 0.0. you lost all remaining credibility here. you have no clue how 0.0 works.any better system would not remove the simplistic pvp goal of getting your small trophy for a kill, it would address the issues of killmails as event reporting, so you would still whine. and all that is purely academical, as ccp probably won't do jack**** about it."
"isk damage is stupid too. hey, lets lose 8 t1 destroyers, but since we managed to alpha a pricey ship, we \"win.\"problem isn't killmails or isk damage, problem is ccp doesn't know how to design a game for crap and didn't give any meaningful objectives for pvp. instead they dumped it on the players and called it \"sandbox\" gameplay.you want to fix km whoring, put meaningful, hardcoded factions in with stats that affect the world. we have four nations at war with any number of smaller pirate and npc factions. none of them matter for pvp, not even their militias."
"so bascially if the applicant were to farm bigger mission ships or kill alts flying said ships, he's fit for your corp?"
"thanks for the reply valdore,we don't use trial periods. the vetting process is a bit stricter for the tuskers than most others. we do encourage younger pilots to roam with us, but they will not be let in on a trial basis, they can join our public vent and chat and roam with us, but they have to be serious about it, and demonstrate and prove their abilites by showing us their combat record. you don't get solo above-class kills by roaming with other tuskers. and the above class kills are strictly required.my point is, for a small warfare, lowsec pvp corp like us, killmails are a measure of how \"good\" we are at the game. industrialists and mission runners brag about how many isk and ships they have, we gotta have something to brag about we don't have territory to measure our provess, so we rely on the only semi-unreliable scale to gauge our skills in eve.it's needed for us to attract the kind of people we're looking for: skille people, with a knack for blowing up other people, carebears ad pvp/pirates alike.without a killboard and killmail, i think many would lose interest because thats the only real measure to gauge ourseles as professional scumbags.every game needs something to aspire for, 0.0 have their territorial claims, highsec residents have their isks and fancy ships, lowsec people might aspire all of the above but the natural habitat dictate another aspiration, to be the best sleezebag in the universe. a game without any sort of measurable achievement, is a bad game. cs withut rankings? wow without epic gear and massive mounts? it's akin to removing endgame content as far as i am concerned, i've tried alot of different stuff in my career as a capsuleer and i certaily don't want the competetive gauge to disappear."
"this is a bad idea.supporting it purely for the crying it would generate."
"i am in favor of trying out a change to the kill mail system. i would like to see the negativity removed from the system, for it to be positive only. i do think there is big psychological impact pvp suffers from because of kill mails.what i would do instead of completely removing them is have it so you get points per kill, add an in game 30 day leader board, tweak the insurance system and an optional graphic to display kills on the nose of your ship."
"hi, my name is hello-kitty online. while we're at it, lets remove explosions and ship death because it makes people sad."
"this is stupid. killmail system must be improved if anyhting, not killed. wth> if there is a problem, burning records of this problem (mails) woun't solv3e it"
"i hate blobs, i hate ecm, i hate logi blobs, i hate gate camps.i do not think removing killmails has any chance at all of changing any of this. if i did i would support this.if you want to reduce these problems nerf ecm and add a stacking penalty to remote repping. blobs and gatecamps are just a matter of learning to deal with them, and frankly i like other people camping gates cos you dont need to look very far to find a fight.this is a really bad proposal and id love to see it stop here."
"no more killmails? count me in!-liang"
"kill mails are and have always been stupid and not used for any useful purpose.the only feasible purpose for them is dividing loot between a gang but i dont think people really do that, just pass it or first come first take."
"not supported. the reasoning is weak. all you are saying is that kill mails encourage killing. there is nothing wrong with that."
"i'm not really sure if i didn't explain it right or if you just don't understand. to simplify - i support testing the removal of the pilots id of the ship which was destroyed, to see if people (who are currently disinclined to pvp) would relax a bit about pvp.at any rate, i love pvp, so if sacrificing the display of how small other peoples epeens are would lead to me getting more pvp, i'm all for it. i would think that you would be too."
"wrong. that's not what he's saying. he's saying it encourages risk-aversion for fear of messing up kb ratio, which is quite the opposite."
"wrong. all reasons given are reasons to kill and not reasons for kill mails. no one cares about kill mails in a fight. players care for the kill.some get it wrong and think kill mails should be farmed, but so does the op, and one cannot help all."
"if no one cares about killmails, then they should be removed. if they care about the kill, that's good, since they're still getting the kill, just without the killmails. i'm glad we agree there."
"read again. i wrote: \"... in a fight.\""
"i don't like this idea very much. some aspects of eve already feel like a job more than a game, and i would absolutely hate it if more of that feeling crept into the game!i think i've already posted my view on bots and what ccp should do to get them out of eve. it is to include security coding to detect bot-programs and inhibit them (force them to shut down) and if they can't force those programs to shut down it needs to invalidate the eve client itself and force a repair/re-install process until the bots are removed. if people are too busy trying to fix their clients, or get their bot software to run, they aren't able to log into eve and then you don't have botting!ultimately it's that simple. they basically need a programing security team to develop antibot softare and keep pace with rmt hackers. the problem/reason they haven't done this, and other mmo's have is that they aren't as big as some of the other companies, but they are growing, and i think they will focus on this once they are done with incarna, and dust."
"do you have a bot alt, tc?"
"i can't say i agree with that. and even if they are being flagged as a botter would pretty much mean they can't go into empire at all. that would mean that they would need an alt account for transport and trade if they don't have one already and that means more money for ccp."
"i guess this was part of the new shortcut changes, possibly there's a technical reason it had to happen, but i'd certainly support ccp throwing some dev time into getting the overview sorting freeze back"
"response from a filed bug report:\"we are already aware of this problem, and have added your bugreport to the existing issue in our defect tracking system.\"there is hope!"
"supported. if you can secure a can for yourself, you should be able to put a pos up for yourself. this is vaulable idea for all sorts of reasons."
"minmatar micro control towernote: only tower that can be launched for self. can not support structures requiring sovereignty.cpu - 750pg - 546875shield hp - 5625000fuel use appropriate for size."
"hmmm.... good point. you can effectively guarantee being within docking range of a station if you warp to zero on a bookmark right in the middle of the station, but this would encourage players to start making large collections of bookmarks deep inside the \"outer boundary\" sphere of stations just like players in years past would make \"warp to zero bookmarks\" 15 km off of stargates.supported. increase the range at which stations accept docking requests to 2.5km."
"1.0"
"hi i would like to see the 8. slot of marauders opend to fit in 2 tracktors and 2 salvagers.since the release of the noctis marauders dont make sense anymore becouse your faster with faction bs and noctis.increased speed/range for tracktors and success chance for salvager would be nice 2."
"supported."
"."
"supported"
"1.0"
"i'd like to see their sensor strength unnerfed so they serve a pvp purpose. but your idea is also decent as a supplement."
"1.0"
"not supported. notics can't fight. a marauder can fight and salvage at the same time, saving you the ship swap and 2nd trip, it's not as good as a dedicated salvager for balancing reasons."
"who sais a noctis cant fight? and if you ever had a marauder trying to salvage with 1 salvager for 8 cycles (t2 salvager) you know what im talking about."
"that's the point. if you want fast salvage, come back and do it after mission with dedicated salvaging fit. you lose no time for salvaging while running mission, so any large wreck you grab in the process is free net gain. you just wanted to have the cake and eat it too."
"maybe change marauder tractor bonus to smartbomb radius?this way marauder can really handle missions better then less dedicated competitors because they cannot be tackled?"
"i support this."
"this may have a strong influence on their viability for pvp also.i would like to see a powergrid/cpu buff as well as a base increase to their sensor strength."
"sensor strength should stay about the same"
"if somebody is scrambled, they should not be able to use stargates to jump. pvp at gates is far less fun than it good be because of this imo"
"since this is a sci-fi mmo, most mechanics have an iu reason behind them. so what would be the iu reason that a scram would prevent the gate from jumping the person?also, would you like to make concord angry for you interfering with the gates operation (because it is indeed the gate that is jumping the person)."
"get a friend with a fast point to stay on the other side of the gate? \"ping pong\" can be fun if done right by both sides."
"counterproposal: make scrambling the gate prevent anyone from using it."
"have you pvped much?"
"this is a bad idea. it will make reduce pvp"
"bad idea if i ever saw one."
"i like all that is hardcore.it should prevent from docking, and bubbles should prevent entire fleets from jumping.i see rivers of tears, and the rivers start right here in this thread."
"supported!"
"hitting the rookie systems yeah i wouldn't do that but you are right about hitting the trade hubs. i think that would definitely get people involved."
"the best thing they could do is make them hit all the ice mining systems to kill off all the macro's. that is what i would love to see. all the hours i spend mining ice and other guys just turn on their bots. it will make it fair again for a while at least."
"want to see real tears? they should invade all those safe sanctum farming hubs deep in the blue ass of large alliances, kill off the bounty, disable cyno, and make them run gated sites that don't let in caps."
"/me whants to see a sanhsa supercarrier smartbombing jita 4-4"
"i strongly dispute that my capital philosophy is short sighted - though i freely admit that it is geared mostly towards fights where individuals actually matter.i very specifically did not say that it would make everything above them obsolete. what i said was that they would utterly obsolete capitals (think dreads) or be so utterly unwieldy that they'd never be where they need to be outside of preplanned cap/supercap ganks. truly, your proposal is nothing but an eft warrior's dream. so unwieldy that it will a theoretical counter against supercaps. unwieldy theoretical counters are worse than no counters because they remove hope that ccp can per persuaded to fix the problem.three things:- it is already brought to light that a supercapital fleet doesn't really need a support fleet.- doomsdays are a pretty poor counter to massed cruisers.- you went to considerable effort to illustrate how they would be immune to supercapitals.i am not at all saying that i want to simply bring a bigger hammer to hit supercaps. in fact, i'm rather arguing the opposite - adding the ability for supercaps and caps to bypass supercap ewar immunity would quite literally be encouraging smaller ships to hit bigger ones.let me know how that works out with swarms of ecm/neut drones, remote ecm burst, and a pair of neuts going at you. i think you're so focused on having 5000 people at your back that you don't understand the concerns of individuals fighting individuals.we are hardly eve noobs - and all of us have a better handle on the game than you do. i already addressed your system and how it provides a \"cycle\". i also addressed how i am in fact providing a cycle.excuse me?why yes, i agree. capitals tackling supercapitals, supercapitals tackling supercapitals... bring more people to the fight! and more will die. a glorious orgy of destruction! i'm not seeing the problem here?-liang"
"sure, i think any sensible person would agree with you. however, this was presented as a tweak to current gameplay mechanics - and as such i tend to agree it would be a good move. i don't pretend it is the only necessary move... though i will say that bobbeh's suggestion is outright lunacy.the root of that problem is that supercaps have enormous amounts of ehp - enough that they're simply game breaking. the arguments go that they need to survive multiple doomsdays or survive long enough to make a difference when the other side jumps in 100+ dreads. imo that's totally bull**** - supercaps should die when forced into overwhelming odds. but, enormous ehp combined with ewar immunity and fantastic damage projection conspires to make them \"i win\" buttons.-liang"
"i predict there will be the day ccp nerfs super carriers and all super carrier pilots will have wished they would have supported this."
"agreed, pvp should be about strategic control of territory, not decorating a board."
"this is an reply to the \"remove kill-mail thread\" somehow it ended up as a thread on its own. please delete"
"locked."
"(tl;dr-only version)i appreciate that ccp don't want folk to fundamentally keep changing their toons at a whim. yet when incarna becomes a reality, please let us change the 'non-fixed' portions of our character as much as we like, such as hairdo & lipstick. people do actually change those things in real-life too, you know."
"this"
"the solution to that would be to have the ship only able to pick up/drop off cargo while docked. it would require some rejigging of the cargo system (a la the primae with it's \"pi materials\" and \"command centre\" bays), but with that caveat attached, i support this proposal."
"not that i am biased or anything [sits on a hundred data interface blueprints] but the idea that data interfaces can be re-used does not make them great for the market since theoretically speaking you only need one and it will last forever. selling them is not going to make anyone rich.when doing invention with them they should be damaged permanently say 5% with every use until they are destroyed [as in tech 2 laser crystals barring the 5% part]. it would go some way for making data interfaces sellable as well as the items they are made from [second-hand parts, power couplings etc]."
"they just need to reduce the drop rates of the bpc's to what they where and the p..rice will go back up after a year or so"
"+1 , needs to be re-worked"
"+1, and preferably not in ~18 months~, kthx"
"agreed"
"it alliance 2011:\"please don't nerf our ability to run away \""
"hate to burst your bubble here; but they're not a strong as you think.according to some brief calculations, the sbu's have some 40000000 ehp; which i'll admit, sounds like an incredible amount. the fact is, it really is only a small amount; when paired against a most formiddable adversary, the dreadnought.in siege mode, a single caldari phoenix, with 3 citadel torpedo launchers, using rift citadel torpedo's; can strip down this massive ehp toting bad boy, in about 1 hour, and 45 min. three of them, could do it in a little over half an hour; though, that is realistically unneccessary overkill.they're not intended to be dealt with by gangs, or blobs; they're expected to be handled, with the right ship for the job. you don't tear down an office building, with a lawn tractor.deploying 3 defensive fleets, with one phoenix, (or equivalent), in each; is the way to handle sbu siezure of a system. it utilizes the fleet framework, and various other game mechanics; to help maintain, and control sovereignity in a given system. it allows for 3 hours, on each sbu; to allow fleets to move into position, and takedown sbu's. it should take longer perhap's; but the principle is there. it is a solid mechanic, that is easy to use."
"i don't think they're too strong, just boring. the csm and ccp appear to agree if you've read recent minutes. sitting shooting through unnecessary amounts of ehp is less entertaining than at fairly short intervals shooting far smaller amounts and doing something else in between, be it interdiction, skirmishing or whatever.the change would simply be a more dynamic and interesting mechanic, the current one isn't 'broken' just not-fun."
"i posted this in ideas discussion a little back but there isn't a lot to be discussed.basically, i'd love to see faction/dead-space/officer turret to be given t2 turret textures (with lights) or give them the same lights in a different color (simple illumination map swap). the rationale is that faction guns are more expensive then t2, so they should be at least just as rewarding to look at. this is also extremely easy to implement as it's a simple texture swap."
"not a nerf.the removal of about 60,000 mouse clicks a week.your rsi and medical insurance will thank ccp."
"even if it was a \"nerf\", it wouldnt really be. less output means that prices rise."
"sometimes i wonder if people really want a mechanic that would let them 1vit alliance and win. i don't want that and i'm not even in a large alliance. i agree that blobbing is unforunately human behavior that ccp is unable to counteract. the very invention of alliances were something that formed first by human behavior and then as designed into the game, and alliances have armada's and they lurk out in the deeps of sov space, and they push the eve server/clients relationship to its absolute limits. they have always made their own rules out there, and ccp has to come up with something like the csm to keep up! i think the absolute best thing ccp has done to limit blobs is the creation of warmhole space. people still fly in gangs, but it's small fleets vs other small fleets because the terrian extremely limits large fleets from chaining wormholes and remaining intact. if you haven't tried it you should. it's the festivus for the rest of us."
"not true. problem with eve at the moment is that there is no alternative. objectives require focused firepower, which leads to blobs. as long as the most optimal solution is having more firepower, blobs will continue. blobs are there because of system making it possible, up to a limit where everything goes to ****.i'm not talking about blob when your enemy has more firepower than you. i'm talking about numbers where game system starts to fail. ccp has to take a stance on this. sandbox or not, eve is a system based on limited resources. it can't, never has and never will scale indefinitely.what we have now is:please visit your user settings to re-enable images.efficiency is linear with number of players. effectively no loss until limit is reached, when everything breaks. numbers are best tactic/strategy.what we need is:please visit your user settings to re-enable images.efficiency should grow slower with more players added. it becomes more efficient to pursue multiple objectives. tactics/strategy wins over numbers."
"i would like to see mining drones taken one step farther.as in mining sentery drones.tech 1 same as tech 1 mining lazer.tech 2 same as tech 2 mining lazer.i know i know your going wtf right. i just think it could be a cool addition as bs with large drone bays could field this giving differnt options to hulk for mining.and mybe just mybe sc's would be pushed into mining in there off time reather then hot droping every little ship they can find. mybe.i am a max hulk pilot so dont get me wrong i love the hulk but hell man after a few years of mining in one i would like a change of ship with out feeling like i am totaly gimping myself.i also dont fly capts but do understand this would be a huge boon to them as well. and when ever ccp do's neft sc as sooner or latter there most likely going to have to. this could help with the sting alittle."
"oh.my.god."
"itburns(92472 clones and 45 cats where destroyed by the viewing of this post)"
"ccp has mandated that no ship will mine more than the hulk (reference the original mining upgrades fiasco). keep dreaming, but this will never happen."
"o kk nope i did not know that thx u :) it was just an ideal. no bs that i know of even with this would out mine the hulk just edge alittle closer. it could be balanced so long as there not usable by caps. some storyline that there advance drone procers are more tuned with fighter/fighter bombers and there for unable to interface with mining sentery drones or something i dont know."
"wow i just ran some numbers. a sc with tech 2 mining drones mines as much as a hulk with tech 2 stripers.max skills on both.the main advange of the hulk is it can get boosted. but and check this if your using a orca and say 4 hulks thats 5 ships it is right about the same as 5 hulks or 5 sc mining. you ether have to have the rorqual deployed or have more then 4 hulks geting boosted by a orca to out mine sc's as is.now i ask you what's easyer to take out 1 orca and 4 hulks or 5 sc? becouse they both mining at around the same speed.thats some food for thought."
"fix this and you've fixed the \"macro issue\"."
"would do nothing. botter would simply open one man corp and jump corp when wardecced."
"please allow us to disable the loading of character portraits as they jump into system.this should include the re-addition of the \"don't load portrait on click\" option.this is obviously overhead that is not needed during the critical time of system jumps.especially when more then 100 players are involved."
"i'm guessing team gridlock didn't know about this change...either way, get rid of it. kthx."
"i'm sorry, but this is not the source of your problems. the character portraits do not all load when you change systems. they load, well as they please it seems. there are plenty of times that i change from corp to local chat and several of the images haven't bothered to load.for that matter, a session change to amarr (205 last time i jumped in) took less than a second."
"that's nice, i guess that loading images is not bandwidth or io, they magically just appear."
"i would like to propose adding a temporary pass that allows members of a group to enter a mission that has an acceleration gate. it gets really old when you are minding your own business doing missions and people come in to ninja salvage and try to bait you into a gank. this measure would allow for those not interested in pvp to operate in relative peace. no acceleration gate, let them scan me down and play there games. acceleration gate, only members of my group that have the temporary pass are authorized through. thank you for your consideration."
"i suport this idea"
"*shameless plug*a while ago i posted thoughts on how to correct some of the repeated 0.0 issues. i think my proposal (here) addresses the following at least partially.1) works towards taking the blob out of sovereignty warfare using incentives, rather than fiat (e.g., in-system ship caps).2) makes it easier for small groups to claim space by shrinking the scale of sovereignty from systems to individual planets, moons, and asteroid belts. 3) introduces an efficient pricing mechanism for sovereignty costs, which takes into account the level of activity in the system and its perceived value. prices for holding space can be made to go up by reducing activity via small gangs. 4) introduces an escalating mining system, which optionally extends the career arc for miners. 5) disconnects pos from infrastructure, and makes them much simpler to anchor/operate.6) make 0.0 more self-sufficient. below is a much-shortened version of the original proposal.make sovereignty contingent on control of colonies on the surface of planets, moons, and asteroid belts (belt stations). to be claimed, a world has to be habitable, based on factors such as temperature, air pressure (etc), which are rigged with probabilities that make few worlds habitable by default. habitability factors can be changed by alliances (at great cost in isk, time and effort) to create new habitable colony sites; however, the habitability factors will revert if not maintained (pruning feature to prevent proliferation). the lowest level of sovereignty would be individual planets, moons and belts, rather than systems. colonies populations would naturally grow given various circumstances, which allows for greater and greater amounts of infrastructure that could either be restricted to alliance members or rented out to non-alliance players. based on their population, colonies would generate personnel, in the form of colonists (can be used to increase the population of other colonies) or recruits (can be trained into troops for sovereignty warfare).troops have cyclical costs associated with ownership (e.g., daily, weekly, or monthly), which would act as an isk sink. troops are functionally active while on a colony, even if no pilot is directing them. to claim sovereignty on a given colony an alliance must control the majority of the population, which means killing off the defending troops using troops they have transported from their colony via ship. the rate of elimination of troops would be capped at some number, thereby disallowing rapid sovereignty flipping (unless the colony is poorly defended). beyond transporting large numbers of troops and preventing enemy ships with interfering with the same, huge fleets would be unnecessary for sovereignty warfare, as there would not be a single target on which maximizing dps would be particularly helpful (e.g., pos, tcu), besides enemy ships themselves. troop-on-troop battles would decrease colonies populations based on the length/size of the battle, thereby reducing the ability of the defending colony to produce new troops and sustain infrastructure. infrastructure in an area would wax and wane based on player actions relating to things like exploitable resources and war. the index system could be re-worked and linked with minimal troop to population ratios for sovereignty claims in order to provide a strong financial incentive to use claimed space (particularly if it contains highly-populated/developed colonies).infrastructure would take the form of satellites that can be anchored near colonies (based on population), which would take over most from pos (leaving them with basics like mining and storage). de-linking infrastructure from pos would allow for greater variability in the former, and simplicity in the latter. pos could simply be sold as mining and storage platforms, as opposed to towers with various combinations of modules."
"it seems to me that the current scheme of skills training is magnificent and doesn't need changes.developers of game perpetuum couldn't invent anything better, than has invented ccp and have created an absolute clone but with movement on a surface of a planet and small cosmetic changes. titles, shop system, overview, an targeting method, a tree of skills, even the prices for timecodes at them on a site were identical to that on a site eveonline, but are crossed and written hardly more low nearby.for that game didn't seem an absolute clone, the perpetuum developers it was necessary to change a little an model of skills training.as a result, has quitted almost too most, but in my opinion, inconveniently."
"i completely agree with point 1.. its just simple common sense.point 2 - not sure about the remainder of the war but the repper should at the very least become a viable war target for at least 15 minutes.as for point 3, does each station have a set docking range are do they vary?for example if you undock from a station at 30km will it be 30km everytime?if it is static for each station then i would leave things as they are. its down to the player to research each station and know what the docking range is."
"go check out how it's in low sec or 0.0 maybe?"
"nah the 15 minutes is hardly effective. simple thing is that when a repper choses sides in a war why only be flagged for 15 minutes? there are certainly more than enough people who will have a pretty load of neutral reppers, easy to cycle them then.you choose a side your stuck with it as long as the rest.and no, i have undocked at station where i could fly away from for quit a bit before the meters started to kick in whereas other stations i undocked and after setting course away from the station not much after that the counter started.ow and on a sidenote:i live in 0.0 and it's pretty easy there when it comes to neutrals or hostiles. both get shot. no need for a timer."
"the purpose of this thread is to announce a csm working meeting and permit delegates to identify the issues and other csm business matters they wish to raise at that meeting. csm5 meeting 014 will take place saturday 12 feburary 2011 @ 17:00 eve time. all csm5 delegates and alternates are invited to attend. the deadline for delegates to submit issues for the agenda is friday 11 february 2011 at 20:00. to get an issue added to the agenda, csm delegates must post the issue title in this thread and link it to the the issue's csm wiki page (not its thread in these forums). a maximum of 9 issues will be considered in the meeting. delegates are encouraged to post multiple issues; issues will be addressed in rotating order, 1 per delegate, until the max is reached.note to community: csm working meetings generally rotate between 2nd saturday/4th sunday dates unless circumstances force a variance. =============================agendaa. introduction-- roll call-- remindersb. issues-- (mazz) declassify old csm communications wikic. other business-- (dierdra vaal) call for a vote to permanently exclude pilots from future participation in the csm if they are removed from csm for breaking the nda. wiki-- csm6 election page"
"in the csm minutes, ccp states \"afk cloaking is lame\" so im thinking afk cloaking will be fixed, the problem is this was kind of our only counter to botters."
"ya there are: cat's rye"
"fyi, ccp have admitted that there is a bug currently effecting a large no. of amarr characters which results in a hood being applied irregardless of player choice (this includes yours truly). other character renders are not working as players have saved. i suggest wait until this patch settles down and/or incarna is released in full before worrying too much about other character portraits etc."
"i looked at this a short time ago -- about a week or so. i came up with an idea but it doesn't appear workable with how i envisioned it to operate. i'll drop it here so you can see what i mean.first - a new module that only fits on dreadnoughts. drone supressor.an ecm based module with a 25 strength (enough to jam any fighter bomber) but with a very limited range that works like a smartbomb. 10 second jam, 20 second duration - only 1 module fit per ship. it provides extended protection from drones to dreadnoughts so dreads could be used to threaten super carriers.the problems:* fb's orbit range to target is 7.5km -- big problem, that's a large reaching ecm effect and i didn't want anything that needed major rework by ccp.* fb's rof is 15 seconds -- with 2s lock times, 10s can't lock - 12s lost out of 20s... net effect is 75% reduction in the dps a super carrier can deliver on a capital class target. i estimated roughly 60% would keep a super carrier able to kill a few dreads that lacked logistics support. 75% is too much of a damage reduction. (would have worked with 4s fire rates but not as slow as fb's seem to have).etc...a bunch of little things just added up.it was a different approach to the super carrier issue. not a direct \"gut it\" across all areas they work. more buff something so it can \"face the beast\" and put a bit more hesitance into supercarrier pilots. think how many thorax would be required to take out an ishtar as the theme... cost wise -- the differences are in the same range as dreads vs supercarriers.i think the theme of buff here to threaten there is still a solid approach but my idea just doesn't cut it. perhaps the theme can be taken up elsewhere.i really hate \"nerf it!\" as the solution when that means the supercarriers lose massively anytime a pilot climbs into one. better to have something capable of threatening the ship so that threat can be watched for and dealt with as it shows, without making the main ship less in all aspects of its use."
"i have always liked the idea of dreads being able to use a new type of bomb launcher at a longer range but only in siege, so each dread gets an extra high slot where they can use bombs in siege, however these bombs would be used for anti-super cap rather than anti sub cap, though this could turn out to be a little op it could be fun for dreads :d"
"the size of the teaspoon is not my estimate. it is the size reported by meissa anunthiel, the so called target of the spoon, soon after the non-event took place. you will find the url link below. perhaps youd care to argue size with her?post 22 of the thread found here"
"ankh was advised by mynxee not to post on the topic. mynxee was of the opinion that it would do no good and only serve to fan the troll flames higher. given the history of the last six months, mynxees advise was very good and based upon excellent observation.i would expect someone of your bravery to roll with the majority on any given subject. the great majority of people posting against ankh are trolling flamers, excited by the spectacle of a good roast and do not care what the facts show or the observations of the people who witnessed the non-event. theyre more interesting in inciting the pitchfork and torch riot.as for the rest of your wannabe act? check out the bottom of post 687.-windjammer"
"not willing to come sit and in person and chat on the subject?not willing to post with your main either?whatever your reply if it is not with your main or a private message to arrange a meeting then you need say nothing else.ank is suffering what she brought on herself. i do hope she loses everything she was using eve as a stepping stone for. however i have no wish to see her go thru career death.she needs to talk to a professional or two. maybe even some anti-psychotics. i am not referring to spoon-gate. i am referring to her posts about pvpers which i did bother to keep up on. she deserves what she gets. and it won't be a lawsuit in her favor.you are a troll. you are flaming and causing general frustration. nothing has changed with all your babbling misleading posts. ank has said many things that show her to be unstable. she had no business being in the csm. now she is not. and won't be again.go find another cause. because ank is a lost cause."
"1. what damage? i'm a software developer in rl, i know what it is. 2. pointing out that someone's behavior in a certain situation is unacceptable is not slander (which in this case would be libel, not slander.) libel has to be proved to be false, which in this case is an opinion on my part. according to the laws of the netherlands i am allowed to express my opinion.so, you're one of those people who think you can claim that you were employed by someone if you worked with them on something? in rl i work \"with\" multiple other companies on committees, but i can't put all those other companies under my employment history. it's really rediculous that she put it under her employment history, it shouldn't have been there. if a potential employer sees ccp under her employment history and calls to verify she was employed by them, they will say that she was not employed by them... thus she should not put it under her employment history."
"why would i want to allow you the privilege of hiding in a private conversation? i prefer to humiliate you where theres a chance others can see it.its not convenient.its not need that drives me. i write because i wish to.you hope she loses everything and yet you have no wish to see her go through career death. color me puzzled. i dont understand the distinction you seem to see between the two.since youve been arguing spoongate, ive offered arguments on spoongate. if you have other information, show me. convince me. the people who work with ankh have made statements indicating your belief is incorrect regarding ankhs mental stability and im more inclined to believe them than i am someone who hasnt worked with her.eva does not deserve this perpetual thread of persecution. it serves no purpose and has been going on for 6 damn months.im not trolling. im not flaming..well not for the most part. im posting quotes within context and giving the links to the threads the quotes came from. in other words, the truth and presenting it in a way the reader can verify for themselves. i.e. you dont need to believe me, go read it for yourself.it worries me a little to think that i might be causing general frustration. i wouldnt want to cause you or others mental anguish. id hate to think of you gritting your teeth and banging your head against a wall. i sure wouldnt want you to get so excited about this that you made a mistake that cost you your favorite ship in a truly humiliating fashion. that sort of stuff would bother me.if you dont want to read what i post, dont. if you want me to stop responding to your allegations against ankh, stop making them or come up with something i cant refute.-windjammer"
"well, crud. i think youre right. it would be libel. its printed rather than oral, though im sure theres been plenty of voice communication.1. damage through loss of potential revenue. could be a rough case to prove, but its within the realm of possibility if one can afford the attorney.2. if you and others limited themselves to opinions such as that was unacceptable, sure, maybe. repeatedly advertising someone as mentally unstable, insane and characterizing what she did as an act of uncontrolled violence? knowing full well theres no proof of that? yeah, that might work in a suit.however, it would be ill advised of ankh to pursue a lawsuit against people who have been doing this. the first thing an attorney is going to consider is, is there enough money here to make the case worth pursuing. something tells me the answer is no. that having been said, an attorney would be much more likely to go after ccp if he/she thought they had a fair chance at winning or getting a settlement. argument could be made along the lines of ccp providing a venue for people to attack ankh, etc.by the way, when i was writing what you quoted, i was thinking of zero rather than yourself. you havent been doing this for six months, have you?-windjammer"
"i can see some of your point on this one, but the csm is somewhat different than what i think youre describing as your own work experience.if i understand you correctly, you work for one company and interface with others towards a goal that mutually benefits your company and the others. in that case, the company which is employing you is paying you to work on these committees and thus you have only the one employer instead of being considered a contractor doing work for a number of companies. do i have that right?the csm, on the other hand was created by ccp and works exclusively for ccp and it is a lot of work. ankh also gives explanation of the csm in her cv immediately following the employment section, though she does not indicate it is a volunteer position.if youd worked for the peace corp for a year or two, youd put that on your resume`, wouldnt you?-windjammer"
"your link went to 8th page of an 11 page document. i took a quick look through the page, but couldnt find the quotes youre showing. could you cite the post numbers and page numbers?-windjammer"
"post with your main. trolls will play the \"i haven't read it, but i'm prepared to dispute it!\" card as you did with ank's spoon chucking before you 'found' information that you just-so-happened to distort to support you claims. all these quotes were pointed out and cited during ank's campaign, and not one was ever shown to be false. i know you're trolling about \"lying\" and what not, but sorry, they're true. lying about me having lied, that's meta-trolling.cool. again you lie in order to troll me, claiming that i lied. meta. also should be noted that despite your trolling about providing links, you just failed to provide a link. and yet, you're still lying about how the context justifies the quote. of course, you were caught lying, claiming that ank didn't want to end pvp anywhere. i provided her own words showing that, yah, she wanted to end ganking in highsec. you then lie some more and claim that removing something is \"balancing\" it. when faced with her own quote saying that \"concord and the insurance companies take drastic steps to stop you parasiting scum.\", you pretend that's balance and reducing insurance and blah blah blah. you're not a very good liar. her own words say \"stop\". not \"alter the dynamic for\" not \"change the profitability for\" not \"rework game mechanics regarding\". stop. as in end. as in eliminate. as in get rid of. but of course you're trolling for a disgraced crazy girl, so all you can do is claim that, really, stopping something from happening at all is balancing it. \"i need my car fixed, it's making a grinding noise when i turn the wheel too far to the left or right.\"\"no problem. we;ll just put it in the car crusher and no more problem.\"\"wait, what? i want it fixed, not destroyed.\"\"you're lying, you're lying! i just said i'd fix it by destroying it, you're lying!\" that is, naturally, one of the common bits that ank's alt troll supporters used during her campaign. when proof was provided that she (or at least a trolling forum persona she created to win votes) was rabidly opposed to pvp and ganking, people would claim that really it was \"balance\". which reminds me, post with your main. hrm, let me predict the trolling on these:\"context context context! sure, she was evincing the fact that she's mentally unbalanced (or pretending to be in order to win votes), and couldn't differentiate reality for a video game and thought that shooting people in a video game really mean that someone needs to be locked up in a mental asylum... but, um... someone was mean to her first and so she was responding!\"as for all this nonsense about the truth being \"libel\", i wish the trolling internet tough guys would put up or shut up. even the fabrication that spoon-chucking was \"gentle\" (wtf?), the trollrage that people don't find that conduct acceptable is hardly \"libel\". \"you must find this to be a non-issue or i sue youuuu!!\" is kinda funny. as for ank being mentally unbalanced, all someone would have to do is quote her own words, showing that she didn't understand that people who play cops and robbers aren't really officers of the law and killers. the defense against libel is that what you're saying is true. as normal people aren't trolling because they support a disgraced crazy video-game-politician, they'll actually recognize and acc"
"the recent exchanges have allowed windjammer to systematically pick apart the canards about ank. and i like his style -- calm, reasoned, and well evidenced.ildryn, you just don't get it. trading on previous threats by making oblique references to them is still threatening behaviour. i've reported you again. perhaps yours is simply the bravado that future years or sobriety will cure. perhaps there is something wrong with you, something that comes out in the anonymity of an online forum. i freely admit i do not know, but in any case, there is a record for he authorities to trace. might be worth thinking about before your next entry. now, please don't let me interrupt this enlightening exchange of ideas. cheers, delilah"
"i never threatened anyone. if you wish to continue to report me it is within your rights i suppose. would you like to sit down in person and have a nice chat about all this? might be able to come to a better understanding when you can see facial expressions."
"i agree, ildryn has not made any threats toward any person in this thread. if you (delilah) have been reporting him and those reports have been reviewed then had he made threats as you claim he wouldn't be allowed to post more of his \"claimed\" threats. the fact that you (delilah) did report him and nothing happened is more proof that you are lying about him. that is considered libel.another instance of your libel toward ildryn. by your above statement he is either immature or a drunk. since you don't have proof of either you are making false claims, thus libel.as far as i can tell you are the only one who is making threats, or at least insinuations of consequences to ildryn's posts (and finn's post for that matter.)edit: add delilah to clarify who is threatening who."
"thank you. i appreciate the courtesy.these quotes youre using come from the crime and punishment section of the forums on a thread titled goonswarm podding activities and occurred in the early part of 2008. there is no section of the forums, other than caod, where smack and counter smack are more often seen. its almost come to be one of the defining characteristics of that section of the forums.the discussion covered suicide ganking, the penalties for ganking that were in place at the time and the need for stiffer penalties. this was during a time that goonswarms so called jihadswarm (their name for it, not mine) was near the height of their activity. it should be pointed out that goonswarms over use of the mechanics were largely responsible for a change by ccp to what we have today. this supports ankhs view that stiffer penalties were needed to balance the game. i.e. ccp agreed with the position ankh advocated.the following quotes are from the thread"
"unlike yourself ive provided links to the quotes i use so that the reader can verify both the accuracy and context of the quote. ive also provided links to the perceptions of the witnesses of the non-event as told by them as well as their observations of the incident. weve even had a recent visit in this thread by one of the csm delegates who witnessed the spoongate non-event and he disagreed with you. my efforts are to show the truth in a way the reader can easily verify for themselves.in contrast you make quotes out of context and then attempt to manipulate the interpretation of the quote. you refuse to link the quotes so the reader can easily see the context of the quote, argue with the witnesses to the non-event and tell outright lies to support your claims. your efforts are to distort the truth and make it difficult for the reader to see the truth. youre not particularly good at it, though you seem to be trying to make up for that lack with sheer volume. nope. youve lied in this thread. plain and simple. youve even lied when accusing me of lying in such a transparent way its laughable. gosh. i didnt really think it necessary because of the transparent nature of your lies, but if you insist heres just one example from your post 682 of this thread. here you first quote me accurately, then tell the reader i said something entirely different. i said you argued with a csm delegate. you did, yet you claim you didnt, saying i made it up. you lied there, zero.then, in the same paragraph, you admit to arguing with a csm delegate and say i was claiming you disagreed with the csm delegates version of events and you claim thats a lie by me. since i did not say that or insinuate it, thats two more lies. the first about what i said and the second about me lying.you lie three times, in a surprisingly short space, and you provide the proof of your lies in the same breath. this is just one example of what i mean when i say you lie very poorly. i dont know whats sadder to think. that you are unaware of how badly you lie and actually believe yourself clever..or that you think the readers are so ignorant as to believe your lies regardless of how poorly your lie is constructed.-windjammer"
"ive just finished covering this in post 717 of this thread. if the reader is inclined they can read that post to see another example of how zero has distorted the truth and outright lied. however, simply put ankh did not want to remove suicide ganking, merely make its penalties match its impact instead of being the free ride it was back then. thats balance, not eradication. proof of this is witnessed by the fact that a lot of suicide ganking still occurs despite ccps having made most of the changes ankh happened to be advocating.-windjammer"
"ah, ildryn, perhaps you have forgotten your earlier post with its not so subtle threat to windjammer. allow me to refresh your memory. this is from your post 684, and is documented by windjammer in his post 687. note to that your threat was edited out of post 684 by the moderators shortly after i reported you the first time. as for troeg, perhaps you were not paying attention to ildryn's antics as documented above. be that as it may, your claim that by reporting a threat i am somehow making a threat is nonsense. such self-serving rationalizations that would absolve you and others from bearing responsibility for your words and actions speak for themselves. your argument simply cannot be taken seriously. still, i'm pleased ildryn is now trying to make it look like his original threat was a joke. that means my point, whether acknowledged or not, has struck home. cheers, delilah"
"troeg, not only are quotes best read in context, so too is the meaning and interpretation of any communication. for example, here is what you claim i said. here is what i actually saidwhile i grant the sardonic humour carries the appropriate contempt for people acting like curs, it is also clear as a ringing bell that maturity, a lack of sobriety, or some other factor are speculations on my part. given your collective behaviour, i may not be far off the mark. then again i might. i'll leave it to ildryn to share his intentions when he wrote that post. he has yet to do so. troeg, you might also want to share your intentions in continuing to defame ank. why is it that making claims about her mental health, claims roundly refuted by people who knew and worked with her, is so very important to you? this is a serious question. think about it for a moment. is this about ank herself? are you really that hostile to someone you've never met and is no longer in eve? i think you said before that you are a programmer. does that put you in a position to assess ank's mental health?or is it something else that ank represents that has you troubled? is it her policy positions about rebalancing? do you fear the end of pvp as some have claimed? is it something else? look, you don't have to be a cur to act like one on the forums or in eve. whether you do so or not is as much an ethical choice online as it is in real life. trashing ank is hardly praiseworthy and doesn't reflect well on anyone. do you really want to be a part of this attempt at character assassination? if there is some policy position you would like to debate about balance, pvp, or something else, can we not discuss those issues in a more respectful way? i know there is plenty of room to disagree, but please do not make ank a victim in a policy debate over internet space ships. cheers, delilah"
"ok updating slowly as there is a ton of crap to sort through.added in more about pos towers and flogging that dead horse into something more dead.black ops are already on the list with proposed changes.yes gallente need a buff thats why the rail guns and blasters are listed, and yes gallente ships do need a buff i agree, but when making these proposals a lot of thought and detail needs to be put into them. as for detail, sometimes you need to talk about each ship individually for these changes. example deimos is supposed to be a blaster boat, but its super slow so when talking about a buff talk about how to improve the each ship individually. using the deimos again say, give it a bonus to base speed and give it a mwd bonus. but also consider when making ship change proposals how would it compare to the others, using the deimos again comparing it to the vaga, zealot, and cerebus.the more detail in the proposal the more likely it will get passed, plus it allows room for change and better feed back rather than fix the ships."
"i'd fly black ops in roaming pvp if they added 100 m/s to base speedjust one of the many possibilities to make it desirable"
"is this the annual raise the black op's thread?"
"no"
"[cosmetic only]really ccp shouldnt have even let the players decide on this. just implement payed cosmetic changes. like race/bloodline changes for your worthless avatar. or maybe even a new hat..."
"this."
"they say the reason they removed it was due to lag issues but if anything lag has increased since its removal, go figure."
"it agree! old cyno effect looked better than this small, wrinkled, stupid red ball.old effects of capital jumping were capturing and causing desire to hold breath and to tell \"...wow!\" present effect of capital jumping with spit out from a bubble looks ridiculously and not suggesting high feeling of powerful of the jump-drive technology.just as earlier a stargate published a sound of accumulation of capacity for a shot which was heard by very powerful overload.p.s.try to recall serial babylon-5.unless the output of the ships from the hyperspace not perfectly well looked, accompanied by bright flashout and appearing shone swirl from which the ship sharply fly off?when the hyper-space was quitted by set of the ships, each of which took off from own swirl is looked capturing!"
"supporting again, i am still waiting for the old cyno effect (and the pod squish sound) to be restored or replaced with something better."
"supported, please let is chose at least a new bloodline."
"yes, please. my avatar was caucasian before incursion now she's asian. i already have two asian characters, that's why i made a whitey in the first place."
"totally agree, how do asians go caucasian, maori go asian, etc."
"race change is a must. the new avatar's look so different from the original. my characters look nothing like they did before. and frankly my race looks like ****...so supported for race change"
"i would definitely pay up to $50 in real cash to be allowed to do this. otherwise, my character is pretty unplayable."
"when you look this good you find the boobs take care of themselves"
"bump."
"supported. current missile graphics are a bit dissappointing."
"i do not know what to tell about all remaining, but it would be healthy to see that rockets aren't simply materialized from emptiness about ship casing. it would be very good to see their take off from rocketlaunchers which are displayed on the case, only if they are installed on the ship just as it looks with turrets.i have no claims to a flight of rockets graphics and explosions."
"there a reason why drakes have missile launchers on their sides supported"
"then need to cut this rocketlaunchers from drake model having made the ship bald and make from that cut off rocketlaunchers, separate which will move a little and will be visible only when they are fitted on to ship."
"well, the macross frontier missiles are a bit too unnecessarily swirly for my taste. having missiles not appear ex nihilo, however, would already be a good start."
"supported.this only needs to be a graphic change, which means client side only. just make the mechanics more like a turret. basically so with this change there is little or no change to the game's missile mechanics at all. it just looks different on the client side."
"you suck with your bumps!as for your idea - it definitely supported!"
"yeah.. first thanatos i saw; was definitely a surprise. now i've had the chance to compare dread's and various others; and i still think they're mostly small. nothing threatening, or even imposing, about them.dreads, should be at least 1.5x the size of the largest batleshipcarriers should be at least 2.5x the size, of the smallest dreadsuper carriers, should be at least 3x the size of the smallest carriertitans should be no more than 2x the size, of the largest super carriercall em' whatever you want; i'm not given to nostalgia."
"+1 for boosting gallente ships. but i want to see drones boosted, specifically allow (once again) gallente ships to launch more than 5 drones. this way, boost is confined to gallente ships, and it will add to their distinctive fighting style."
"support and bump to the top of this hell)"
"yes i tottaly agree ccp failed not to add this option"
"one of those must be features in eve online. asap"
"im actually surprised this wasn't available in the first place, its kinda common sense ur own drones repping urself."
"if this is implemented, hope it's not a general \"you can target yourself with drones\" mechanic. appearing on your own lossmail with your own attack drones to minimize killboard numbers would become the new fad :("
"you can rep yourself with your own drones already.you just can't target yourself to issue the command. why would anybody invent a sensor that can detect itself?"
"get rid of jump bridges because its not challenging enough?.....apparenlty ccp employees dont have to worry about roaming gangs of neuts or red's up in there jovian empire, even with jb's your rolling the dice flying even to other parts of your alliance holding's. jb's are a stratigic asset, help player run empire's grow, and provide a way to out smart roaming gangs.and on the similar subject, i know alot of capital and super cap pilots that like to keep there ships safe in cyno jammed system's, how does this apply to this thread, well after an operation how does said capital get back to his or her semi-safe home system? well a jb or course, since they can't use the jump gates, because ccp has fail to solve the bumping issue so if capitals can't access there safe systems, it forces them to either a: stay logged off, and really ccp u wan't accounts logged off? leave null sec alone and focus on more important things like sov r somethin....not supported.p.s this is what happens when high sec carebears get to decide whats going on in null sec"
"after skimming this topic, i see nothing but 15 pages of tears. tears from the oh-so-mighty nullsec holders. hello? 0.0 is nullsec. as in no security. its as risky and as safe as you want to make it. but oh, no! we're not going to be able to hold huge expanses of space anymore!oh, no! logistics is actually going to be difficult!oh, no! distance to a fight is going to actually matter!ccp, do the right thing! make space big again! make 0.0 holding risky again! make some room for the growing powers in the galaxy! death to jump bridges! nerfs to supercapitals and jump range! for gods' sake, bust up the gigantic power blocs!"
"this is an mmo.if you think blob fights are a problem then regulated tournament style pvp would be more appropriate.regardless, it doesn't matter to have 2 long range weapons that work better the the third."
"^ this would be nice"
"good ideas must be closer to top!)"
"when i first heard about incarna, the combat potential is what got me excited. killright-sanctioned shootouts! fisticuffs! duels! hangar thievery (and dangerous guards that can be bought/upgraded)! sabotage! boarding derelicts / dead poses for extra salvage (and battling whatever's infested them in the meantime - rogue drones etc)! \"hostile takeovers\" where you walk into the enemy corp's station office and hose it down with hot plasma!here's hoping incarna doesn't end up being just a see-and-be-seen scene. we can already dress up and go out irl, we don't need to pay money per month to pretend to be a space pilot who dresses up and goes out :)"
"big 'no' to this proposal.1. every action in stations should be mature and thought-out social interaction, not running around and shooting like in action games;2. space should be the only pvp orientation of eve, as all of its vast and complex pvp resources and tools that make it stand out have been created, re-created and iterated for space during all these 7 years. shooting in stations would make it another (and worse than many current) action game."
"nounless...stations are split into 3 sections - high, low, and nullhigh - no combat permitted of any kind, not even kill-rights. security scanners check for contraband as you pass through doorways.low - no/weak security scanners; kill-rights permitted; unprovoked combat tags you as a wanted criminal, capture results in immediate execution.null - anything goes.leaving your ship always gives you direct access to high, plus access to low and/or null."
"i fail to see the point in pvp in a station, i figure a station is a city, so you will have working areas, offices, housing for the rich, and a slum area for the poor.since capsuleers are like gods and a few isk is worth a lot then why would anyone go to the slum area?i figure a high an low security area but no guns in high. slums will have fighting but no killing, just beatdowns ad general thug failures running around, maybe put a % of isk in an acual wallet when u go into station so you can be pickpocketed or robbed in the slum area, but you can also play cards, bet on slave fights, or buy a female escort.anyways op idea is pretty bad, and would recommend bio massing character immediately to spread the stupid virus."
"bump to the front page i think"
"/signed!"
"1000000.0"
"one more thought:as i understand, for the characters which names consisted of two words divided by a space, the first word becomes a name, and the second word - a surname.and what to do by that who didn't put a space in the nickname, and wrote it, for example, here so: annalucia, superbaby, gordonnailcatcher, etc.?on the one hand, it will be not good, if it will be possible to change the nickname.on the other hand, somebody will want to divide these two words and to make of them a name and a surname.probably, it would be necessary to think of possibility to make a name and a surname from current nickname by means of the same space, but without possibility to add, delete or change a letters and other symbols, to put a space in the beginning and in the end of a nickname. the space can be put only once.when i have recustomized the character, whether me haven't asked i want to select a surname.it also isn't necessary to me, but nevertheless it can and be necessary for someone."
"+1 for a badly-needed \"undo\" button"
"while you are at it, stop the character from tilting up/down unless you have zoomed in on the head.give us a screenshot option that will render the character on an alpha transparent background.add a character preview in game (like the ship preview) where we see the characters walk along an infinite walkway.also let us have a \"reset to default pose and light\" option in the poser."
"undo/redorevert to selected snapshothigh-rendered, full preview of snapshot before you finalize"
"all the above and... facial piercings, face tattoos (for minmatar) and other accessories/addons (for all races) from the old system that helped define what race was what and coincided with the lore that backs it."
"supported for that reason alone!"
"now before we start, i'd like to say that i like ecm drones. i think that they work perfect and do not wish to see any change in how these drones are balanced. i will make references to the power of ecm drones vs other e-war drones though however, sensor damping, tracking disrupting, energy neutralising and target painting drones always appear completely underpowered when compared with the dreaded ecm drone.now just for comparison:5x hornet ec-300's are just as effective as 1x racial ecm fitted on an un-bonused hull with max skills no implants.pros of drones:ecm drones do not require capacitorecm drones effectiveness is not skill basedcons of drones:can't be overloadedcan be destroyednow when it comes to the other e-war drones we see some very large differences in performance vs ecm drones.sensor damp drones:because these drones can't be scripted to either range damp or scan res damp they are already suffering heavily in performance. the next issue is that stacking penalties are so harsh that using more than 3 of these drones is pointless. also, only ogre sd-900's are powerful enough to consider using and with how underwhelming sensor damps are in general, even when using them on hulls with a bonus, you would never use these drones.tracking disruption drones:these drones also suffer from the same problems as sensor damp drones although the strength of the drones is good enough the stacking penalties are crippling and using more than 3 on a single target is pointless. target painting dronesuseful when using torps but again, stacking penalties and small bonuses cripple these drones.energy neutralising drones:these drones should be fantastic but sadly the amount of cap drain from these drones is so small it's pointless. you might say that this is balanced because it costs you no cap to use these drones but when you look at the figures which are:11 ev-300's : 1 t2/meta 4 small neut18 ev-600's : 1 t2/meta 4 medium neut24 ev-900's : 1 t2/meta 4 large neutwhen you compare that to the fact that 5 small ecm drones are as effective as a single racial ecm module on an unbonused hull ev drones are a complete waste of time. one positive thing though, neuting doesn't get stacking penalties so that's a good thing.i would like it if the other e-war drones were brought into line with the ecm drones.1st would removing stacking penalties from the drones be a really bad thing?2nd being able to r-click and \"set mode\" for sd and td drones be a viable option?3rd by how much should the e-war strength of the drones be buffed to make them effective but not overpowered?"
"they should just remove all ew drones till they figure out a replacement for ecm."
"there is nothing wrong with ecm. it works perfectly. yes it is annoying but it works and you can counter it."
"i agree. as for how much the non-ecm ewar drones should be buffed, i'd say make them 50% more effective and halve the stacking penalty. for balance, neut drones should probably get this new stacking penalty applied then."
"ev-xxx drones are actually pretty good, just situational in the extreme and only really work in conjunction with an actual neut.sd-/sd-/tp-/sw-xxx on the other hand have no use whatsoever, mainly due to stacking penalty system. removing stacking is not an option though as it will make swarms stupidly powerful.increase the effect of the drones at least one whole size (ie. lights get effect of current mediums).increase their orbit speeds and hitpoints to give them more survivability.double (at least) their activation ranges so that a single mwd burst is longer enough to escape the effect entirely.ec-xxx should be changed to being lock-breakers instead of full cycle jammers. considering overall locking speed that would make them pretty fairly balanced.cycle time might need to be decreased to 15s or so .. need to test in 'cruiser down' environment where they are currently op.do you really want to open that particular can? last thread that did so ran way off topic with page numbers in the double digits"
"sensor dampening drones are the most worthless drones i have ever seen in my life. fix. needed."
"have all the drones from a single ship count as a single module for the purposes of stacking.that is, all 5 sensor dampers from 1 ship add with full strength, but 10 drones from 2 ships has a stacking penalty. this stops huge swarms from being stupid powerful, but makes it so that you can actually use them.the actual numbers of the non-ecm drones could probably use a boost, in addition to the stacking modification i mentioned. in particular, the sensor damper and target painter drones need the biggest boost i think."
"well, it is my opinion and i could be very wrong but i do feel they work well. i do also like the idea that ecm drones become lock breakers (not heart breakers, see what i did there?)at least a reduction in stacking penalties for sd/td/tp drones so that they are effective in a \"wing\" but not in a swarm.ev drones maybe don't need stacking penalties but to just not be as strong as the shipboard modules themselves. maybe 50% stronger than current drone neut strength?the biggest problem with sd is that even shipboard sd modules are a little underpowered. the whole sd e-war needs a little look into.what do people think about having a \"mode\" selection (a bit like scripting) for sd/td drones?"
"+1non-ecm ew drones have been broken almost as long as rockets used to be..."
"i think the ecm drones should be nerfed to the ammount of 5 drones = a multi jammer not racial."
"with all the suggestions regarding blasters, railguns and now e-war drones am i glad that i am a gallente pilot. my uber-uber ships will be feared in all of eve soon.behold the sarcasm.not supported ... oh wait, it is only a discussion."
"imo the way to make mining less boring and simultaneously remove mining bots would be to make mining into a minigame. e.g., you must solve tetris blocks or something which represent your ore processor machinery, in realtime, to get any ore while your laser is on."
"i disagree slightly, it may not stop the macroers but it will help to combat them. eve...or any economy for that matter is all about checks and balances. the system is simply out of ballance right now in favor of the macro. i honestly dont blame them, mining is boring. with respect to your hard core miners that can chew on a rock for 3 hours chin up and keep hope, we're fighting for you.to corectaly combat the social distress that is macro mining, you need to balance the system again. right now, it's more profitable to macro mine...simply becuase you cannot mine in 3 hours what you can in 23. change that scale, and make the new system complex and adaptive(and hopefully void of exploitation)...you not only increase player interest in 'doing it the right way', but its one step closer to decrease the value of a macro.having nasty spawns won't stop it...but its one gold nugget stacked back on our side of the scale.i still give a +1 to op"
"even if it doesnt stop bots, it is a decent change"
"i would agree that ratting in low sec - belts or plexes - are equally or more dangerous than in 0.0especially if you are in friendly 0.0 alliance, the danger is much less than in low sec. in 0.0, whenever a single hostile enters the region, his name is reported all over the friendly intel channels so you know what's coming for many jumps. not to mention all the super safe jb travel.certainly low sec deserves same quality rats and plexes as 0.0or make 0.0 dangerous again, nerf jbs, nerf local chat, nerf cynos"
"pos structures are clunky and old. management interfaces are awkward; and provide for a poor interface. the anchoring and onlining time required for pos's; leads to many headaches for individuals setting them up.i'd like to see all this change.i think we should have a new pos design, and a new management sytem; not to replace the old, but to coexist with it for a time. this will allow for players to make the change at their discretion, and as cash flow is available; with all old pos modules, being purchased back for recycling, by various npc corporations in the game.the new pos structures, will see significant remodeling; and undergo a vastly superior, change in functionality. initially, only empire pos will be available; though, over time, pirate faction variants will emerge. these will not be superior with regard to cpu and powergrid; but instead, will see changes to pos bonuses and appearance. shield, armor, and hull will remain the same in most respects; though, they may see changes to patterns of resistance.all new pos structures will have hull, armor, and shield resistances; reflecting the differences in the factions from which, they originate. pos will no longer have seperate structures as before; and will no longer enjoy a projected shield effect, as before. instead, they will apply their shielding effect; to any nearby friendly vessels, in need of its protection. firing on these vessels, will of course relay it's effect on the pos shields; rather like a shield transferring array, that draws its power from the operational shields of the tower. the projected effect of these shields, and the shields on the pos structure itself; will be similar to that of a ships shield hardener, in almost all respects. once a pos's shields are gone; so is any protection--of that nature--offered by a pos.the new pos's will have structural hardpoints; for mounting their various modules on. there will be a maximum number of these hardpoints available; allowing for only so many structures to be anchored to the pos. anchoring times will be--very nearly--as usual, with some slight reduction; where onlining times will be reduced to reflect the fact they are connected to, and powered directly by, the pos. new options for pos modules will become available. some of these, will include bridge structures; that allow for additional hardpoints. such a brige, would take up one hardpoint; while allowing for three additional hardpoints. this would allow for pos expansion; making for large pos structures.corporate hangar array modules, would mount directly to the pos tower itself; requiring a base level hardpoint, as opposed to a secondary hardpoint. they would also extend the hardpoint to which they were mounted; allowing for a secondary hardpoint, for which to mount other modules. ship maintenance arrays, could make use of these secondary hardpoints; while not being able to connect directly to the pos itself. moon harvesting arrays, would require two tertiary mounting hardpoint; as would assembly arrays, and similar structures. tertiary structural hardpoints, would exist as extensions to reactor arrays and the like; which would then require a secondary harpoint. in this way, a pos would be required to build outward; while relying on its full powergrid and cpu capabilities. it would also see the addition of capacitor requirements; allowing for variations in the way its modules function.offensive hardpoints would be another additional pos module; each capable of fitting various weapons, and/or ewar modules. these would mount to secondary, or tertiary structural hardpoints; or to hardpoints on the pos structure itself, giving some flexibility. they would utilize weapons much like those used on standard vessels; and each would be visible, mounted on the surface of their respective offensive modules. additionally, the new pos could have free floating drone-like weapons; with their own respective control unit.more..."
"these drone-like weapons, would require bandwidth as normal drones; and would potentially be free-roaming, to a specified range, or stationary. free roaming drones would dock up, until aggression; then deploy into formation, to asail the aggressor and any allies. stationary drones would act much like sentries; attacking any aggressable targets within range.ship maintenance arrays would of course, be sizeable; and appear capable of storing thew vessels in question. for this reason, they may require; as many as, two, or three secondary structural hardpoints. two would be a reasonable number; with the structure extending away from the pos. weapon platform modules, would effectively be anchored vertically, horizontally, or diagonally; and resemble anchors in appearance, with smaller shafts, which act as the interconnection point. weapons would be arrayed on both sides of them; along the anchor's hooks, with 4-6 weapons total. silo's would mount as additions to structures which require their use; on specialized hardpoints, used for only that purpose, with optional configurations. once a requisite number of silo's is reached; no additional silo's, would be mountable, to that structure. pos's would gain internal slots, which could be used to buff powergrid, shield resistances, cpu, and the like; while allowing for player configuration of their pos, for any intended use. these would of course, be similar in functionality; to high, mid, and low slots on ships. specialized survey probes could be designed; to determine exactly what modules are deployed on pos's. these would function much like ship scanners; though, would require deployment, in a fashion similar to moon survey probes. potentially, they could be one use items; or would return at the end of their scanning duration. they would be detectable by ship scanners; and potentially, be vulnerable to disruption.structures would no longer require manually ferrying around cargo, fuel, resources, or the like; but instead, would be capable of internally moving any and all resources, save ships. for the purpose of ship construction; additional modules would be required, to connect directly to a ship maintence array. capital ship maintenance arrays, would also become a tertiary module; requiring a minimum of 3 tertiary mounting hardpoints, for their use. an appropriate assembly array; could provide these hardpoints.pos management would be simplified, with all modules, and linked substructures; accessible through a 3 dimensional interface, representing a map of the pos in use. simplying selecting a primary pos structure; would allow for it to be manipulated as needed. this would allow for individual manufacturing arrays, to be operated; with all linked substructures available, in a single pop-up window. weapons platforms would be capable of being mounted, loaded, and grouped; as well as capable of receiving targeting commands, or being controlled. targeting commands would be simple, in most respects; yet still allow the players to control the ai for pos defense mechanisms. an organizable list would appear; with primary targets being at the top. this would function in a similar fashion, to the players overview settings menu; with up and down arrows, to move objects, and the like. it would be an interface capable; of setting up a programmable defensive ai. players can't be there all the time.i'm thinking this is a good enough base for this idea, for now; so, let me know what you think, through your comments, support, and criticism.kelanoein out."
"incidently, this would also remove all that pos clutter from your overview; given the station would be one structure, save for the drones.of course i'm supporting my own idea."
"kill the stations !!! amount of necessary damage - 3 hours of shooting by 10-20 titans' doomsdays in siege mode."
"the map knows many filters, all of which have a use to some if not all players. mission runners can see where their next available agent is, pvpers can look for kills, traders can look for player hot spots - only to list a few.what it needs is a more direct support for miners.besides the number of players active in space, is there little more help available. the map offers little in trying to find a good system to mine in. instead, the search for a system with big rocks and untouched belts is just rudely seen as part of the miners' chores.i propose to add a filter to the map which shows:- the number of asteroid belts and ice fields in each system.- an indicator for the mining activity over the last 24h in each system.this will make mining more awesome. one can spot over-mined systems, possibly caused by macro miners who just mine the same belts day after day, and move to a system with less activity. it allows miners to spread out more easily and makes planning of mining operations easier, and more.pvpers can use it to see where there is mining activity, where the enemies get their resources from, etc. and adds overall more strategic information to the game.the load on the server nodes will be more balanced due to miners more actively spreading out into untouched systems. macro miners will be forced to move around, too, or their activity will become visible to all.there will be many benefits coming from an additional filter dedicated to the mining profession. and it is time for the miners to get a bit of love from the map, too."
"giving it my own support."
"having been doing this as part of the whitehound corporation since i have joined. i have found it to be greatly beneficial for everyone that takes part. it is all operated under fair terms and everyone ends the op witha smile on their face.so by giving others an opportunity as such would be very helpfull.i strongly support this."
"i like this proposal as i've enjoyed the mining ops we do, having the abilty to see and better prepare for mining op's sounds like a bonus to me and other miners and op makers alike. and having the abilty to avoid the cases of destroyed or over used belts makes mining a whole lot better and more enjoyable for all. thumps up"
"i would be happy to help white!"
"doesn't seem to be a feature that can screw up many things, altho might be somewhat tricky to implement.giving my support anyways, because it seems a good feature."
"the implementation should not be our concern as it is ccp's business. however, asteroid belts respond to excessive mining and spawn smaller sized asteroids the next day. so there has to be some gathering of mining activity by each node already in the game. all it needs is to send it to the client and to cache it there for 24h like any other 24h data of the map."
"it is kinda our concern since it might or might not be feasible to introduce."
"no. if you let it influence your decision then you might deny yourself a new feature, which can be easier to implement for ccp than one anticipates.the only concerns one should have is, am i going to look like a fool when i support this proposal?"
"only concern i have is \"can ccp really do this?\" and if it can that usually ends up with \"how the heck did ccp broke it so bad?\""
"i actually thought they already had something like this in the game already, last op when you and grim were trying to find a system i tried too look it up and found that it actually did not exist, i would be glad to see something like that integraded into the game!!"
"hey thats a great idea.i mean, imagine in alliance wars, actually being able to see and to effectively cut off enemies supplies...wouldn't that be something? talk about a whole new lvl of pvp'ing.mix it with mine and we got us a new and funner carebear economy.supported +1"
"at first this idea struck me as 'easy-mode' for miners, but the strategic point is a good one. as an orca pilot myself, finding a place for my crew to go can be a pain sometimes. this sort of feature can have far and wide effects though. while it is strategically useful for pvp purposes (piracy, warfare and such) it has another effect: more ore on the market.this feature increases the efficiency of the mining career and will inherently increase the amount of ore on the market which in turn affects how much miners can make from that ore (potentially more or potentially less, depends on supply/demand as always). whether you think this is good or bad is, in my opinion, the core of this thread.i personally like the idea (because i think it benefits mining and, well, i am a somewhat lazy leader...)"
"i've submitted other posts asking for a bit of leverage here or there in support of the miner as sometimes i do feel we get a raw deal. i'm showing support because sometimes (like reading in local) it's nice to have a heads-up both for when **** hits the fan and for when times are good for mining o7"
"yes, i want it now, don't make such a huge deal out of something your just going to get rid of before the release, at least get some player feedback from it first!"
"yes please, bring it back. also great to see only two people not support so far. as long it was optional, it was awesome. and if there was an exploit, someone needs to sill the beans."
"not sure why a minority opinion was excepted as the de facto opinion when it came to the new neocom. why are more choices a bad thing?the current ui is clunky and old. time for a change."
"these are all good ideas and pirokobo's idea is long damn overdue."
"here another screenshots from server multiplicity:screen1screen2screen3screen4screen5screen6if i have correctly understood idea the given possibility will be accessible for plex-credits, just as piercing and hats for character.it is a pity that multiplicity it is closed for an login. i with pleasure would play with this feature."
"apsidia, you have made my whole week."
"supportedyea give us the ability to represent our corps and alliances by taging the logo on the side of our ship, and we can already change our ships name, so let us tag that on the side of it."
"corp and alliance logo on 'patches' we can put on the avatar's clothes would work too. or tattoos of them. heh."
"op updated to reflect this long needed option."
"incursions coming tomorrow. with bigger sites requiring 60 ppl due to reward curve, we may be seeing public fleets forming and subsequently chain-concorded from rr."
"ok, perhaps, but can we please enjoy a few dozen tearful threads first?"
"i like the idea of making mining and ratting more dynamic. it could make the job more interesting, but it's not going to solve macro problem. a more effective (and perhaps radical) way to solve the problem is to allow mining barges to run autonomously. then players can directly compete with botters and drive them out of business. this way, most botters will quit, players will have all of mining, and they will be saved from drudgery of mining. at the same time, dynamic mining op suggests should be implemented so that mining outcome depends on player skill. too many people mining, you say? the market will take care of it. people will stop mining if it's not profitable enough. mining as a profession will be different, but the root cause of today's problem is the boring nature of the mining profession."
"1. eject from a capsule - very much isn't logical.2. self-destruction - logical function also should be always.you press the right button on pod, you select \"self-destruct\", you confirm the choice and in 2 minutes you'r in the cloning station. it was always existed so.it seems to me that to eject from capsule it should be problematic without the special equipment in station dock or station medlab."
"also: aaaaaaahhhhhhh"
"i was being sarcastic, if you didn't get it. you really think all that long hours of gatecamping or blobing farming loner killmails, isn't actually for the purpose of padding kb?"
"are you trying to give killing a moral purpose by saying that kill mails are immoral?"
"absolutely 100% agree with this proposal.but keep lossmails. i enjoy seeing how many ships i go through :) it feels good to know i'm singlehandedly stimulating the entire eve economy!"
"morals have nothing to do with this. it's because of killboards that everyone is faced with the dilemma of \"wait hours for fish to bite for an easy blob kill or don't wait, jump into a losing fight and get blobbed\". there's no actual tactics besides numbers, numbers, and more numbers--it trumps everything else. in the end, the only person who loses is whoever isn't willing to wait forever or is willing to take risks. long story short, blob = all reward, no risk."
"yep, extreme risk aversion, in fearing that losses will shrink your ep3n0r5.it used to be about the rush of a good 1v1 fight. now, it's just another form of farming/grinding, for kms instead of isk."
"i've just stopped reading right there because for me it's enough to support your opinion.whenever you reward people with ranks everything goes to be at the top."
"i stand by the premise that killmails only add negatives to eve pvp and no positives. i am not going to argue about whether killmails are to blame for all pvp happening or not.real pirates are in it for the money. fake pirates are in it for the killmail. guess which one outnumbers the other by a massive margin of disparity.i don't think capitals, super or otherwise, should be removed from low sec. i just think killmails are the reason entire fleets of them would be sitting in a system waiting for the jump call to come out over comms when the bait gang is engaging a hostile gang. if i was a supercap pilot, i'd like to think i'd have better things to do than jump in to kill lone bses tackled by a bigger gang.if the event is so important, why do you need a killmail to tell you about it?because i don't believe killmails should be a reason to fight other players? or because i think players should be coming up with their own reasons to fight?if all you want is event reporting, i have a nicely designed generic battle reporting system that might interest you."
"and thanks for taking the time to actual debate things. it means a lot to see people forming coherent arguments without trolling, even when they disagree with me.fair enough, if said combat record was something you had to request from their previous corp(s) and not something allowed for public consumption... would that be acceptable?fair enough. not entirely sure why this is necessary since above class kills are usually easier than a more matched fight, but that is for a different thread.well, if people remember your name, that is typically more effective than killmails for actual infamy. if anything i'd think hardcore pvpers would hate killmails because they make it far to easy to find out what, where, and who with you fly. i know i despise them for that reason... among the others stated in the op.do they? i never noticed. even if they do, they don't have anything like killboards to rank on... or do they?honestly, i'd say if you are that good, bragging is pointless. everyone who matters already knows and those who don't will soon.territory isn't always a good measure either. some alliances 'control' a vast number of systems they pretty much only have because nobody else wants them.i'd still say your reputation should do that, and if it doesn't... it won't matter what your killboard says.exactly the reason i think killmails should be removed. people who pvp for killmails are doing it wrong.unfortunately i think eve's best sleezebag is executing a 0.0 alliance.if you are flying a ferox and kill me flying a hurricane, isn't that already a measurable achievement?i still think there could be a far better system without all the inherent weaknesses and complications killmails bring to the table."
"although i would love to see the end of blobbing and cap dropping and so on. i'm not sure removing killmails will do it, round my area in eve there are plenty of people who blob up purely because they don't want to lose money.plus i like looking through my lossmail's and thinking from ages ago and thinking 'wow, how did i not notice that was a bait ship when i shot it'maybe find some way which makes exporting killmails to external boards impossible, so people like me can reminisce about the times we got drunk and took our faction ships for a spin."
"i definitely think killmails affect pvp in eve. take carriers for example. currently it's suicide to have a lone carrier anywhere further than 2500 m from a station in low sec. if a carrier gets pointed people will come from far and wide to get on that killmail and the carrier is screwed.if there were no killmails people would not at all have the same urge to come. though i'm not saying a few people wouldn't come anyway, but i think the random guys just looking for killmails wouldn't.if you absolutely must still have killmails just let the one who inflicted the most damage get it, and possibly only if he surpasses a certain threshold, like 50% damage by himself (ie he's so good he can take on people singlehandedly or with little backup). he should also always be the one who gets the killmail, not the one inflicting the last hit."
"problem with having highest damage only getting it is people would just start farming kills using falcon alts. they would be able to brag they were l33t cause they killed loads solo due to the falcon not showing."
"that should be simple enough; just add the number of participants to each killmail (without actually saying who they are).edit: actually, you could keep killmails exactly like they are today, but remove the name, alliance and corp from all but the top damage ship, and always give the killmail to the top damage ship having it like this would almost avert people from using killmails because it would be very clear how useless they are individually in a blob."
"i was toying with something to replace killmails, but it seems unlikely that it will have the desired effect if anyone but the victim gets the 'killmail'.now many people are going to trip over the idea that 'killmails' only get sent to the victim, which will definitely kill killboards as almost nobody likes to publicize their losses. but, a loss record is far more adequate to the task of helping an individual and a corporation track problems without clouding them in a sea of statistics fueled bloodlust."
"idea not supported. there are a number of reasons removing killmails won't do anything to address any problems, and killmails do have some positive effects on pvp that people like to ignore. here's a rundown.1) some people use killmails as a form of record-keeping. 'okay, at this time, we went here, did this, and killed these guys. we lost these ships.' you can document an entire campaign this way, and in fact, it's pretty much the *only* way to document a campaign. when i want to tell someone about a truly epic fight or reminisce about an old campaign, finding the battle summary and linking them to it really adds a dramatic flair to the storytelling when they realize the true scale of the battle - especially if they don't play the game. how else would i be able to brag about this? sure it wasn't a 'real' carrier kill, but that doesn't take away from the fact this 'noob corp alt' was only beaten in damage by the npc navy out of 112 people.2) killmails are a valuable form of intelligence. want to know something about a potential recruit, a forum jerk, or a new wartarget? look 'em up on battleclinic or eve-kill and there's a mostly-complete record of their pvp career, though some people know how to keep their kills off the major killboards. that's how i am suspicious of your claim to be a 'true' pvper - the fact that you hide your main character's combat record from inspecting eyes by posting on an alt with no record at all suggests that you're not as good as you claim, whether it's true or not. when you kill someone and receive the killmail, you can usually judge the pilot's level of competence by the fittings they had and the way they fought. the guy in the apocalypse with t1 guns, rainbow crystals, and a shield tank is not going to be a high priority next engagement (unless you just want to kill him first to get it over and done with) but the guy in the t2-fit remote-rep triple-trimarked fleet geddon might be. of course, anyone who develops a reputation for using faction, deadspace, or officer gear will be extremely high priority. without killmails, you lose most of this intel.3) it's not going to affect 'fake' piracy. the kinds of people who camp gates in low-sec and pop haulers all day will continue to do just that. padding their killboards is just a side benefit. the main reason they do it is because they like to make people upset, and this is the easiest, lowest-cost, lowest-risk way to bring the most grief to the most people. these are the same sorts of people who play fps's to teamkill or the guys in wow that go out of their way to kill enemies half their level. getting rid of the record of their doing it isn't going to change the fact that they do it.4) winning is paramount, the killmail is secondary. this is why you see huge amounts of ewar and supercapital hotdrops on minor gatecamps. people want to win, and they're going to pull all the stops to make sure they do. losing in eve has repercussions for all but the richest or cheapest of players, so people will do all they can to minimize the odds of it happening. this is normal human behavior. removing the killmail farmers from the equation might reduce the size of the gank by 5% at most. note that 'who got the kill' and 'link it' only pop up *after* the fighting is over, and is mostly provoked by a curiosity to know what exactly they just killed. what did it have on it? how much was it worth? how did i do relative to the rest of the fleet? these are the questions that prompt people to ask for the killmail.all in all, removing killmails will remove them as a source of records and intel while not really affecting anything else. removing the name of the victim removes the intel value while keeping the killmail-farming perfectly intact, making it a worse solution. i'm not all in favor of killmails, but the answers i'm seeing here just make the problem worse."
"ohh yes, morals is all this is about. you question the moral behind killing for kill board stats and you choose to see it as immoral.the consequence of this will be that killing itself is morally right, while killing for killboards is morally wrong.you know what this is called? it is called stupid.what will your next proposal be? to stop hulkageddon, because killing players at random and for fun is immoral?i am sure this debate will end with you saying that killing is morally right only when you do it to others. not supported."
"wrong again. do try and keep up. it's not a moral, it's an excuse, the excuse u're trying to keep to maintain the status quo of who wants to wait the longest to keep his epeen intact. for some stupid reason, u think killing by itself is the issue being discussed but of course, u're incapable of realizing that it's who's not being targeted for killing and how long a non-blob has to wait for a remotely winnable fight. in other words, it's the problem created by the killboards. as for the hulkageddon part, u might wanna do a little research before saying something that stupid. and \"fun\" isn't waiting hours for seconds of ganking/running--it's a result of ppl's fixation of being internet tough guys. hit the problem at its source, problem solved.anyway, i'll bet all that was way over your head, so feel free to post something irrelevant again. i'd love to hear it."
"if anything ccp should add a killboard as part of evegate for nice and accurate stats.the reason people blob is becuse they like to win, not because their stats might look horrible if they suck."
"not going to happen.you only think you have the higher moral ground, but you have no ground at all.do you actually have a killboard record, before you ask for kill mails to be removed?"
"figures--ignore and pretend u don't understand...or maybe u really can't understand like i said and knew u wouldn't. as for the killboard record, how hard is it to spend a few seconds looking it up? r u this lazy with your kills as well? oh well, once u look it up, maybe then u'll see why your comment on hulkageddon was just plain stupid. but plz continue with another digression--i'd love to hear it."
"oh, i do understand very well, anna. you are proud of your killboard stats and do not want others to feel the same.not supported."
"if that was case and if killmails were removed, there would be no killboard stats for even me to be proud of as well. if u're gonna try to \"argue\", at least try harder and maybe engage that mod in your head. your turn."
"you want to remove what makes you proud? you suck hard. not supported."
"i also hate killmails. i hate that they discourage people from using non-direct fire ships in pvp."
"i never said i actually was proud or wasn't. u just assumed that i was and i simply tested that and what would happen and of course, u're wrong. try again plz."
"no, i can read, thank you anna."
"no problem."
"this is the *only* valid concern about killmails, in my opinion. as an occasional prober-for-hire i sometimes profit from this. that said, your better, more professional groups can get past the urge to 'get on the killmail' somehow, and that's when they turn into a properly scary fighting force."
"just yesterday i had the same idea.with it being directly from ccp it would be acurate for once, showing every single kill and loss. <- this would also give people a reason to actually use itit's kinda funny if you look up characters who only use eve-kill on battleclinic for example. for some reason all their losses are to be seen but only a small fraction of the kills will be there anyways, op is not supported."
"first off, saying \"kms cause gatecamps blobs and ecm\" is like saying \"chemo causes weakness\" its not the intention of it, the intention of kms is to provide a record. people use gatecamps blobs and ecm because they are effective tactics to win fights. doctors use chemo to treat a patient.these tactics will continue endlessly as long as there is any reward for pvp be it space, resources, or lulz. if you want to change the way these tactics are applied, make them less viable. reduce the ecm jam time and keep the ecm module cycle time the same. reduce the signature of ships being locked by more than a handful of hostile ships. stay awake when ratting in your carrier in null if you don't like hotdrops. killmails are a side effect of what you choose to call \"bad pvp\" not a root cause. you blow up your argument with one sentance. \"people don't want to lose.\" that's it right there. the root cause is that these methods work, and work very well. an alliance fighting to defend a serious asset be it a system, a supercap, or even a capship for some of the smaller folks out there is going to bring everything it can to save that asset. by the same token removing killmails won't make people want to stop winning fights, it will simply make it harder for leaders to keep track of what their people are doing and to gather intelligence on future opponents. would some of these methods become less frequent? possibly. gatecamps and hotdrops are as much about killmails as they are about getting loot so certainly you would lose some people. but what do you gain in its place? those people are more likely to become discouraged with the game because they considered killmails as a measuring stick for their prowess in eve. take this away and suddenly their motivation is gone. not supported."
"well said, nice argument."
"i'm sorry; i cannot support the op's initiative either.subjectively, am i vain about my kb stats? perhaps slightly - certainly, i don't think i have anything to be ashamed of - but neither are they any sort of driving force, and nor have they been. i think all of that shows in the record. but that is entirely aside from the most important reasons.primarily, as a corp and alliance exec, km's/kb's are a measure to tell me many different things about how my people are doing, things i can't always have an immediate grasp of otherwise. it shows who's active in pvp terms and who's not, and also where perhaps a little help for some of my pilots may be needed. it can help determine specifically where my pilots might need such help.equally importantly, they are a primary source of intel of many types. anytime i'm researching an enemy - whether potential or already active - the first stop is always the various kbs where i can find a presence for such, both to gain an idea to see what they fly quickly as well as the relative skill levels involved. it gives an idea of how active a target corp's or alliance's pilots are, and even a little as to their tactics. the same is also useful in gauging potential pilots and corps for recruiting purposes.i know i'm stating the relatively obvious, but i think it cannot be emphasized enough.are these the only such tools? no, of course not, not for every one of these metrics ... but they are very solid, and couched in the various replacement proposals i have seen nothing that provides a truly adequate substitute. i would, if anything, want something that actively improved my ability to engage in these various duties and responsibilities, not hamstring that effort, before i would support doing away with the current tools.in addition, as many have stated, i am by no means convinced that this drastic cure is treating the actual illness, but simply rather a symptom. perhaps there would be some small adjustments here and there - but i fail to see proof that this will in any way correct the most egregious issues surrounding pvp (as many have already spoken of them). therefore i cannot agree that is truly a rationalization to offset the harm i would suffer in losing this class of metrics."
"i disagree that killboard rankings *and* information from killmails are meaningless to skill at pvp. i think you can get a decent sense of how good someone is at pvp from looking at their killboards. if you look at battleclinic rankings a player rated 1000 is likely to be better at pvp than someone ranked 100,000 (at least once both get a certain amount of kills under their belt.) but of course you can't just look at the ranking but also look at what ships they fly who they are killing etc. the killboards even tell us who only joins blobs. if you never have a kill with fewer than 20 people joining you on the kill then the killboard proves that. if there were no killmails there would be no way to easily prove this or that pilot is only a lemming in a blob. if you think the whole thing should be about isk loss and not about killmails then you are actually going to *encourage* blobs. i think killmails should simply be improved. remote reps should show on killmails. if one of parties on the killmail receives remote reps then the logistics ships should be on the kill mail. there are other improvements that could be considered as well both to killmail creation and to rankings. as far as people being afraid that others will see their fits or that they lost a ship im sorry that is not the type of person i want eve to cater too. thats just ridiculous. we pretty much all have stupid fits that we fly before we learn how to pvp. i flew a lot of bad fits (and no doubt still do) because i am not a great pvper. do i care that people know the truth? no because i have no interest in hiding the truth. the people who want to hide the truth are the type of people who join blobs. killmails are not a perfect system but it has some value. see you want loss of isk to be the *only* risk in the game. that will lead to much more blobbing. killmails at least help prove this. i pvp because it is a very challenging and fun part of eve. the killmails and killboards help demonstrate how i am improving (or not) in this game over time. yes there have been times when i dreaded the fact that a loss mail will be posted. but if you dont take internet spaceships too seriously then you tend to get over it and after time have a good laugh about it. there are also some loss mails that i love and am actually sort of proud of.no killmails means no epic news for eve like the kestrel with over 40 plexes or the 20 billion isk paladin. so i answered why i fight now: why do you fight? if its not to get a better looking killboard (which by the way means you blob less not more) then what is it? if its for sov then your best bet is blob. if its for isk wars then absolutely you should blob. if you say its just for fun then ill ask what makes it fun? here is the thing: eve pvp is fun in large part because 1) its challenging and 2) there are consequences. not only isk but kill and loss mails.lossmails are part of the risk. and killmails part of the reward. if you want to remove risks and rewards then eve is not so fun."
"if you are going to propose an idea like this, at least have the guts to post with your main so we can see if you have a clue what you are talking about.of course i suspect the reason you didn't is because you're afraid (rightly) that we'd change the argument to be about how fail you are as a pvper based on your killboard history.this is the general trend i've seen on all these \"kill the killboard\" threads. the vast majority of people supporting have little or no record of pvp activity (generally because they post with alts) or outright suck.i'm an total killmail ***** the only change i'd like to see to the killmail system would be for ccp to build it into the game so people couldn't hide their losses or pad their boards with fake killmails.killmails are the only record we have of a pvp interactions in the game. they are the only indicator of competency and level of risk aversion.oh and if you think that removal of killmails would do anything to reduce the amount of blobbing and ganking; you are living in a fantasy land. people \"blob\" because there are consequences to loss far in excess of a stat on your killboard. you have to spend time or money to replace a ship you lost. that's why people are risk adverse and blob.or in the case of null you could lose sov which means a loss of resources far in excess of the ships risked in the engagement. no one thinks poorly of someone who lost a ship to a superior force on their killboard. we might think poorly of them if their fit was particularly heinous but most the people i know who pvp understand that you are going to lose ships. sure it's not perfect and it doesn't give one every bit of information about a pilot it doesn't tell us who the good logistics pilots are nor the good scouts, then again it doesn't tell us who the good station traders are or scammers or spais.it's not supposed to. it gives us data on one aspect of a pilots career. it provides information on a pilots pvp prowess when it comes to direct ship to ship engagement.do some people misuse them? yeah but the same can be said of jumper cables doesn't mean that it would be a good idea to outlaw them. oh in case it wasn't clear from my commentsnot supported"
"and prove me right? absolutely.i'm not afraid of anything, and my killboard record shows that. but that doesn't mean i like total strangers knowing 'everything' about me before i ever see them ingame. it takes all the surprise out of pvp, which incidentally is what makes pvp fun.you can think what you want, the op is what it is.that would kill the pvp side of the game completely. finding a good fight would be impossible. right now, it is just very difficult.no they aren't. i'd rather people remember my name after i kill them. if they don't, then it wasn't an impressive feat.i'll reverse that and say you are living in a fantasy land if you don't think it will. or more precisely the frequency of blobbing and hotdropping.cowards die in shame.we aren't discussing the 'other' reasons people blob. just killmails.oh i dunno, most people seem to think i'm bad at pvp, because i lost a geddon in a 6 v 1 after being permajammed while having two eccm iis fitted. or when the pirates of mh blobbed to take out a dark rising gate camp... a notorious hotdrop corp, but they didn't end up hotdropping. people look at the km and think whatever they want, but they never know the context of the fight itself or what actually happened to get that result.killmails only promote bad pvp. period. the side benefits of having them are pathetic compared to the problems associated with them.not at all, killboards don't tell you the most vital information to make a judgment about prowess.naturally. but if killmails are so good, why can they be 'misused' at all?"
"sometimes i hate some behaviors that are encouraged by killmails, but the killmail itself is always interesting to read and keep track of.i believe this score keeping is an essential part of this game, a pvp game.without these records, things would just get more boring.killmails are like cake. cake can make people fat and unhealthy. but it's not the right thing to ban cakes from being made.also, more seriously, the pvp tactics used in combat are not influenced by the killmail records. killmail records only influence people's attitudes, politics, smack talk, but they have no impact whatsoever on what actually works and what doesn't in combat.if blobbing works, it will be used.if jamming works, it will be used.if hotdropping works, it will be used.to address those problems, we need to change actual game logic."
"but as i mentioned killmails at least put a check on blobbing. you can see if someone never got a kill without 50 other people on the kill as well. it also shows if you took down a large ship with a single smaller ship - and how that larger ship was fit. without killmails the *only* consequence of pvp is isk. if that becomes the *only* consequence there will surely be *more* blobbing. the only people who want this are those who never pvp or only pvp in blobs. killmails prove that is what they do, and they dont like it."
"well there are other ways to fix that. like battle reports, which have none of the downsides of killmails."
"the only km's are worth looking at are the big fleet reports of lots of people vs lots of other people.you don't know how that 1v1 or 2v1 happened. one of the people might have been afk or somthing.too be honest i don't care about how many kills or deaths i have, as long as i make more money then i lose it doesnt matter because in eve plex + money for ships= fun"
"this is the best you come up with? you are exactly the type i was talking about fail pvper crying and blaming your suckage on killboards.29 kills and 30 losses over what a 3 year period? that's 1-2 fights a month and you want to try pretend you have some idea of what motivates pvpers?you claim to not be motivated by killmails yet it didn't stop you and 6 of your pals from ganking those 3 provacatuers on the 22nd. or where those kills simply motivated by a hunger for killmails? were you looking for a good fight when you popped that guys rifter with your battlecruiser on the 13th? believe me there isn't anything in your kill history worth noting and the only thing i'd be concerned about engaging you is whether you have a gang of buddies in reserve to shift the odds in your favor.full reporting wouldn't change a damned thing in regards to finding a good fight. just like the removal of killboards wouldn't. it's hard to find \"goodfights\" because pvp in eve has consequences. you want \"goodfights\" join rvb they have lots of them. outside of that though people are going to do their damndest to maximize the damage they cause you and minimize the damage you cause them.if you want even odds consequence free pvp eve is not the game for you. people here play for keeps. nothing you fly is that special no fit you come up with is going to be that amazing that you need to worry about it becoming fotm. in general unless you are fighting on a relatively stable front or war deccing industrialists in high sec you aren't going to have time to research individuals killboard history sufficiently to change the outcome of a fight. most fights in this game are kills of opportunity. and if you take the time to research somoene's killboard prior to every engagement you are going to miss out on your opportunity to kill them or they're going to kill you while you're reading their kb. as far as people remembering your name, it ain't going to happen. you are just one more anonymous dude out of the thousands of anonymous dudes playing the game. and the odds of you or anyone for that matter doing anything impressive enough to gain sufficient notoriety to be remembered as just some random dude someone shot at is remote to the point of vanishing. hell i'm an admitted killboard ***** and i couldn't name off more than handful of the top 20 on battleclinic; in fact for the most part the ones i remember are the ones i've fought in the past. and the only change i'd make in knowing them is that i'm not going to hang out anywhere lukka likes to haunt alone in a lightly tanked ship.and if i land a point on him i'm gonna do my damndest to kill him then toss a gf in local when he kills me.the really ironic thing about killboards that i've found though is the less you care about your losses the better your killboard tends to look. because what gets you killed more than anything else in the game is indecision. if you are busy fretting about what your killboard is going to look like you are going to hesitate and the other guy is going to get free damage on you.the only thing you should be thinking about is can you take em if not you escape if not how can you cause them the most damage before you die.the kill/loss mails are to look at afterwards to evaluate the engagement to learn what can be learned and marked up on your score card.really the idea of taking the ability to keep score out of this type of pvp is asinine. combat pilots have been keeping score since the wwi guys started putting tick marks on their bi-planes.if the killmail system hadn't existed we'd have had to made one up and then we'd be stuck with nothing but non api verified crap.oh and thanks for reinforcing my point about the types of people who whine about killboards.still not supported"
"no, all of that is from when i came back after the new killmail system was added. i never posted kills or losses before that on any character.i don't even remember.as my killboard clearly shows, that never happens.i thought about joining that honestly.never claimed to want anything like that.you never try experimental fits?then i haven't killed enough people.nobody knows your name like you know lukka's?why would you do anything less?that must not be true if you concluded i'm a fail pvper and am crying... or whatever you said about me based entirely on my killboard.i never hesitate to act, sometimes i make the wrong choice, but i dive right in regardless.i do that during the fight. killmails tell me absolutely nothing new.then keep score, you don't need killmails to do that.you reinforced mine more than i reinforced yours.gf, now gtfo."
"the kill on the 22nd was 2 days ago it's right there on bc you and 6 others ganked 2 command ships and a drake. it's your most recent pvp activity and you don't remember?on having backup. killboards can't show that \"it never happens\" all we see if the fact that you engaged 3 ships with a superior force there is nothing to indicate (other than the fact that you got them to engage in the first place) whether they chose to engage you knowing the force you had available or if you baited them by showing a lesser force to begin with.rvb is good fun ;) and i recommend it but it's not general eve combat it's a semi-controlled environment about the only place you're generally going to find a high proportion of more or less even fights.on fits i fly experimental fits all the time but i don't pretend that i'm somehow so special and creative that i'm going to think of something that one of the thousands of other people play this game haven't thought of already. nor on the off chance that i actually happen to come up with such a fit do i think it likely to be picked up on by the greater community. and even if it did i suspect it would take all of a week for a counter to be dreamed up.it is unlikely that you will kill enough people to gain any sort of notoriety, particularly if there aren't kill boards to document it. the only reason i mention lukka is that he's one of the guys on the top 10 on bc, he's more noteworthy for the pita he caused rvb. any notoriety i've gained is from my activities on these boards not for my pvp prowess, i don't consider myself a great pvper, i'm competent but i'm no lukka or loren or willl adama. the only reason the killers who are notable are notable in this game is because there is a record of the carnage they cause.my inferences about you are based on more than just your killboard. though that does provide some clue. part of it comes from the fact that you created this stupid thread in the first place. your killboard just confirms my point that the majority of people who cry about the killboard system do so because they don't like having their failure broadcast to the whole universe.i'm sure there are some kick ass pvpers who also dislike the killboard system but they are definitely in the minority. most successful pvpers i know like it just fine, and use it as a tool to improve their game play and monitor their progress. the killmail system is the only record available to objectively evaluate a pilots combat performance. whether the person is a corporate recruiter or the pilot themselves. the smart ones use it as such a tool properly and draw those conclusions that can be drawn from it and avoid those that can't. as another poster pointed out, you can tell who the blobbers are from looking at someone's killboard. pilots who generally show up only on kills with 50 other people don't get as much respect as the one who's generally engaging in more or less even fights particularly those engaging solo or against greater odds.the ranking system on bc even rewards it. those who solo combat craft get more points than those who blob all the time or spend all their time ganking industrial ships. you lose a rifter to a blob you don't lose as many points as if you lose a jaguar to a ibis.your argument that km cause any harm is predicated on the idea that the only stat that anyone cares about is kill/death but there is a hell of a lot more shown on a killboard than that and people are going to look at other things like points/ranking and efficiency. how blobby you are do you fight people who can fight back etc.the reality is that killboards discourage the activities you try to place at it's feet. it's just that for majority of pvpers killboards are a secondary concern."
"dear op, your fail logic is fail.first, mails dont encourage blobbing, people bringing more ships to a fight encourages others to bring more ships to the fight next time, until it gets out of control.second, killmails dont encourage gate camps. people flying expensive haulers full of goodies w/o an escort encourage gate camps, and also helps block supply lines to and from high sec.third, you were in a 6 v 1 fight? well hell, you were screwed even w/o the ewar. sure you might have taken 1 or 2 of them down with you, but you still would have died.forth, killmails dont encourage hot dropping, as stated before, if you are flying an expensive ship by yourself with no one around, you are a target for anything that comes your way. if you dont like hot dropping blame reckoning and pan legion.confirming that op is an angry carebear alt, and before you talk about blobbing you should really remove those kills about 20 v 1 with your corp on there from the public killboards. just sayin."
"what? so we are to type up a battle report for every engagement based on the battlelogs? that we can demonstrate we are not blobbing? of course everyone will then say they were blobbed. yet there will never be any proof. the killmails are the proof. you want to do away with all the evidence. sorry this is just a horrible idea. again if you never pvp or only pvp with blobs it might sound pretty good. but for everyone else its horrible."
"hello timestampsthe raven and belicose were kills half an hour before the other 3 so i don't consider them a part of the same engagement. still i'll grant you that the battle may not have been as lopsided as it would appear simply looking at the battle clinic report.which reinforces the need for an official killboard so one wouldn't need to check multiple boards to get a good picture of an engagement.i'd also like to note that you were able to defend your actions in that fight by using a killboard."
"the proposal: remote repairing someone with aggression (the kind which prevents you from docking/jumping), copies the timer that they have left before they can dock/jump. objectives: same objectives as the \"remote repair causes agression\" proposal, only modified so that it doesn't cripple rrbs / logistic gangs. by copying the current agression timer, rather than simply giving a full one, this means that rrbs can deagress together while repping each other, which currently happens on tq. this was the major concern with most people not supporting the proposal.prevents station games with unagressing remote repair ships, such as carriers, logistics, rrbsprevents the current carrier remote boosting, but never agressing, eject from agressed ship and scoop mechanics.logistics have to commit to fightsreduces stalemates (mostly highsec) where both sides have more unagressed remote repair ships than they have dps, also means more ships die and people need to take more risks when using logistics at stations/gates dock hugging remote repair carriers can't instantly redock, which gives more opportunites for them to be bumped off, and killed.example: i'm fighting a battleship in my battleship, i deagress, and wait for 40 seconds, my friend then comes and reps me, he gets a 20 second agression timer (same as me)."
"fully support."
"<---- are you sure?"
"yeah.. sorry, but i'm not to fond of your lingo either; sounds like nonsense to me, and i feel it should be removed from the game. kthnkx k thanksone letter.. wth? does that make you cool or something? stop it!anyway, back on topic.. i never really used overview freeze, and i know they keep bobbing about; but its not really that big of a deal, in my opinion. how did you freeze it anyway? i just have my overview set up; so i don't really have to worry about it most of the time. i don't blob warfare though either; so, it probably wouldn't concern me.somebody seems to think its a glitch though; so, maybe you'll get it back, when they fix the rest of the graphical glitches.speaking of which.. not a graphical glitch; but anybody else had all their places folders dumped? i've still got to go back and fix them; so everything is organized as it should be. hopefully thats still possible; didn't really check, just closed it in annoyance.also, where did the damn portrait option go?"
"much needed"
"i would not only like to see the overview freeze come back but i want a targeted picture freeze as well"
"(crossposted from this thread on features and ideas on the request of alias 6322a)right, after a long and somewhat productive conversation with a senior gm, this was what he suggested. make a very clear, straightforward post on the features and ideas discussion assembly hall forum.ccp, please release the race-locks on character creator art assets such as hair and clothing and allow all races and bloodlines to use all currently available assets.that's pretty much my only beef with eve right now."
"tl;drmake a third \"primae\" hull called \"primae mk. ii\" (think badger) that uses the ore industrial skill to bonus the accuracy of scan on planet (linked to the planetology skills) as well as bonus the ly range of interacting with distant planets. the ship will have a small cargo bay but large specialty bays for cc's and pi materials (much larger than the original release). these attributes will make the ship worth using for pi over standard industrials.i don't want to change the original primae as that might upset collectors and such. instead, as i was going about my pi business (it's too easy of income to pass up) i wondered what the primae could have been. here is my idea:primae mk. ii (same hull idea, potential small differences and color)0 high slots4 mid slots4 low slotsstats - whatever devs think is balanced, i wouldn't have a clue.cargo - 100m3 cargo hold - 4,000 m3 command center bay - 20,000 m3 planetary commodities baywhy...the slots are so the ship can be tanked relative to any player's skill. though it lacks offensive capabilities, i suppose someone could get silly with ewar. the small cargo bay renders this ship 'not worthy' of typical freighting (i.e. cargo expanders don't make enough difference). however the specialty bays allow the carrying of 4 command centers as well as an entire custom's office worth of goods.now the cargo stuff is nice, 20k being more than most tech i's can reach, but it limits the ship to its intended purpose as a 'pi ship'. the other half of the coin is its bonuses.requires ore industrial skill ti fky (level 1)\"x\" bonus to planet scan per level.additional 1 ly to remote sensing skill per level.the idea is that the ship should be useful during construction and use of planetary facilities...though not necessary. the ship provides a bonus for more accuracy during the placement of the structures/extractors for your desired resource, as well as provide a bonus to the interaction range. though i doubt anyone has facilities spread 10ly or more apart, it's another 'relevant' bonus the ship can have to better set it apart as a 'pi ship'.as a final note, i think the ship should run a little less than the noctis in its inherent mineral value, but not by much. the large cargo capacity is a big bonus as is the planet scan bonus. the book itself runs at 1.4 million as it stands, so this is not a new-player-friendly ship.comments and ideas are all welcome! i think the ship should be fairly easy to create and require little dev time. effectively i just don't know the actual stats to be used or how the accuracy of planet scan is gauged.edit - separate from this proposal: i have also submitted a pi command ship idea in the features and idea section. while this proposal requires minimal time on the devs part, the pi command ship is from scratch and will take some time to develop if it gains any ground at all. still, anyone who is interested please have a look and comment on it! planetary command ship thread"
"aside from the original primae not requiring skills what's the point of creating this instead of using an iteron v?planetology v with advanced planetology v will give you 100% accurate scanning.now... let's talk a blockade runner primae and you'll be onto something."
"i like the idea but since update the primae now bit pointless as you can only put 1 command center in it \"command center hold\" , least to get beginners going that needs to be bigger and as for the mk ii i think if trained up as thats what your going to do a t2 copy of the ship like all other (well most) ships would be a way to advance in the game, like trying to pi in low sec ....but please do something about the orginal primae 1600m3 command center hold but each command center is 1000m3.... mmmm don't quite work out for some one who likes to save space hahaha"
"the planetology skills take a long time to train to level 5.training a racial industrial skill for a non-racial career to 5 is a bit nasty.besides that, you have a good point on the 100% accuracy. perhaps that would be nerfed to 80% accuracy, allowing the ship to provide the final needed 20% at maximum level of ore industrial. that's tricky territory and i'm trying to avoid that.as for your br idea...that's what blockade runners are for! if you want the relative safety of a cov-ops cloak, then you use that ship over this one. if you have friends to protect you (or the place is empty like so many lowsec systems) then this ship works just as well."
"the original primae is a special-release and it is highly unlikely ccp will touch it. you're certainly welcome to try though...i agree it was a relatively useless ship but most special-releases are.as for a 'beginner' pi ship, that's what a tech i industrial does for so many different careers. since cc's are only 1000m3, with only level 1 indy skill a brand new player can tote around 3 or 4 commander centers. you can, as a character, only control 6 cc's at most anyways and now they upgrade on the spot making hauling them less important.like all things lowsec, pi is dangerous there and this ship has the slots for a basic tank just like miner ships. pi in lowsec should be dangerous, just like everything else, but you must remember like the ore in lowsec the planets are higher quality too.keep the comments coming though! i'm interested to see how many other folks would like to see a pi ship (that works)."
"i would like them to have a little damage buff so they do a tad more damage.edit: you just want more slots to fit heavy neuts on so you might be able to cap out that rook before it jams you!"
"in most situations the rook/falcon has much faster lock time and most likely sit at 25+ km rangethe main disadvantage of using marauder for pvp is lack of agility and speed. but that's problem of most bs, that's why you see so few bs in pvp (unless it's sniper fleet battle)"
"marauders already see a 100% damage increase; equating to 8 high slots filled with weapons. never mind saving isk on ammunition. now you want an 8th slot; over and above what they already have? noctis debuffed the marauder? ..are you serious? i'm pretty sure i wouldn't place this high on my priority list; and you don't pvp in them because of cost. same for widow's, and a dozen other ships; while cap's, at least have the ehp to stay on the field awhile."
"+1the general bs's problem is right there.the only thing you can fight against and think for a moment that you are flying a real ship for your time spent training is against mission rats. [fake]give them +25%tracking and falloff per level, it's better tha"
"damn, someone beat be to the smartbombing idea.another idea is a bonus to damage against capital ships. vov"
"i support this too."
"i would buy a couple marauders for pvp if they had a smartbomb bonus, either 5% range or 10% damage (lets face it, 5% damage on smartbomb is hardly noticeable)"
"increase sensor strengthdecrease signature radiusincrease scan resolutionincrease power gridthats all you need."
"buff marauders, but not the sensor strength, that should be their achilles heel so to speak. if cost ever go down they will be used more in pvp no matter what. i think instead of smartbomb or tb bonus it should be either a rr or tracking bonus. if is has rr bonus it will be a good spider tank ship but remember low sensor strength means jamming and there is sure to be cap issues.tracking bonus will make the marauder better vs smaller ships."
"i really don't believe that spider tanking is the answer. it can already be done effectively enough due to 3x high utility slots.aside from agility/speed or more damage, the other alternative is increasing buffer tank, like doubling of the shield/armor hp. that would also make them attractive for pvp"
"i thought this is about what about those 3 slots and the tractor bonus, if rr modules got a bonus it would also increase survivability but not enough to be as good as logisitc shipbuffing ehp helps too but it would still have the now worthless tractor bonus"
"the ehp buff could be done by replacing tactor bonus"
"given the trend towards more pvp-derived ai (sleepers and incursion rats) i think the whole class is for the chopping block, honestly."
"i'll support this."
"yes... the noctis has killed the marauder class. it is far far more efficient to use a navy/pirate bs and a noctis than a marauder.they need something to make them appealing again. the first buff needs to be to the active tanking bonus (and all active tanked bonused ships) to bring them in line with resist bonused ships. if the 7.5% rep/shield boost was extended to include 7.5% bonus to rr recieved that would be a huge boost to fleet work (pve and pvp).the next thing to look for is to change the tractor beam bonus to something usefull. no idea what or whether just doubling the bonus and giving the ship an extra hi (no more pg though) and a salvager bonus would work."
"no reason to change it imo; you can either salvage as you go in the marauder or choose to spend a whole lot of time docking up, warping back and forth to the mission to salvage with the noctis."
"wouldn't this break the regional trade? i dont like it >.> i support the idea of travel with certain items to another region to get more per item.i think it would be better if certain racial regions had diffrent minerals, like lets say amarr has lots of veldspar, meaning mining will have more tritanium, give gallente more of the mixed mineral asteroids caldari would get the scordite and plagioclase for pyerite while minmatar would get small roids of everything from the other highsec area'sthis would mean money would be made shiping from gallente to amar and back.have a long highsec route through all the factions with a faster lowsec route, if there is no highsec route idea fails, the lowsec route means fast travel with increased risk."
"this is already the case. pyroxers and omber are in different regions. as well, each race's control towers require fuel which comes from mining the ice in their particular region."
"supported. right now lazors are the only decent looking weapons to use. railguns look like little pea-shooters, and dont look or sound even remotly like spaceship cannons the size of a 2-story building...this is quite pathetic, this game has done a terrible job at making you feel like your actually flying a spaceship. it feels like im flying a remote control toy. like comon ccp, the ships in this game should have this massive-awesome feel to it even just sitting inside a station. or even orbiting a planet"
"supported.+1"
"the flagship t2 bs would be a direct step up from the field or fleet command ship and make use of the newest t1 battleship models such as the hyperion and rokh. these ships would have the best in class armor and shield resistance buffs as well as deal the most damage for any t2 battleship which will be reflected in their cost which will equal or exceed any navy or pirate faction bs.i won't speculate or even attempt to start assigning stats and the like. its the idea that needs to be moved along and i want to see those new bs models get some more love.*extra tidbit* while were at it ccp, lets see those newer battlecruiser models like the hurricane and the drake get some ultra hac love."
"a flagship should be a step up from fleet command ships and t3. it should not be some uber pwn mobile./not supported"
"think up some kind of useful and interesting role for tech 2 tier 3 battleships, then post it.a command ship on a bs hull is neither of those things, and inventing ship classes just for their own sake without coming up with a reason for them to exist is a pointless exercise."
"i suport this, its a better then most ideas out there."
"supported. gal ships face enough disadvantages as it is."
"i have a better idea, why don't ccp just give you free kms?"
"so u're crying because your gate camp can't kill easy prey? u know what would be more fun? rather than sitting in one place, roam. or r u too scared of running into someone who will shoot back? what's next? u want them to remove your lossmails?"
"a little dramatic aren't we? it's worth a chuckle at any rate; but, i think you missed the point. it would be an exploit. an in game mechanic; designed, to be an exploit. a sure kill. guaranteed killmail. it would effectively destroy skirmishing maneuvers; and make deaggressing completely pointless. it defeats the purpose; and is far from hardcore.of course, i'm pretty certain; your support is dripping with sarcasm. correct me if i'm wrong.edit: i suppose it may be hardcore, if you're on the losing side; but people adapt, and pretty soon, it would be a trap."
"no. the proposal is great. you are only afraid of a major change to pvp.the proposal has many hard consequences, all of which i embrace.when you undock with an enemy outside will you be forced to fight. there will be no turning back any longer. you better mean it when you undock or stay docked.you want to jump into an unknown system for some good fun, but want to have the option to always burn back to the gate? not any more. here you will have to think twice, too, because with the change you might jump into a dead end.it is a wonderful proposal. it finds a lot of opposition right from the start. this is a great. it will drive all the dodgy pvpers away, and back into high-sec and into their alliance home systems. i expect much more support for the proposal. the assembly hall is all about dodging, is it not?"
"and with this change and a garanteed kill for the gate camper, how do you propose getting noobs to enter losec if there is every possibility that the very first time they enter, they get ganked and can't get away. at them moment there is at least an opportunity for them to get away.it's a dumb idea!"
"nothing is guaranteed, and the noobs die before they manage to get back.dumb is only the resistance to a great change."
"while we are here coming up with rediculous ideas, how about a nerf to gate camping instead. have the scrambler and stargate jump cause a catastrophic overload in the scrambling ship(s). there would be a 33% chance for every active module fitted on the ship to burn out immediately and be destroyed. this would add little risk to what otherwise amounts to low risk ganking. naturally bubbles wouldn't cause such overloads."
"interesting, but sadly the wrong thread."
"as corina jarr brought up in the 1st reply... how does this truly fit into the game mechanics? the way i see things working is a communication occurs between your ship and the jump gate once you are within proper range of the gate. the gate then takes over and sends you to the other side. scramblers and disrupters would not be able to prevent this from happening.a possible why to achieve this would be a some sort of a radio jammer. this could stop the ship from communicating with the gate... or even prevent the pilot from being able to call his friends for help.although i mention it i'm completely opposed to it."
"woh woh woh, come one dude, not so fast...do you really imagine ? carebears have scan, cloak, acceleration gate, local chan, show info on entries, probes on scan now, aggro timer on gate, sentries, all of this to escape and to farm safely, provided by ccp... do you really imagine if ever they couldn't jump through the gate while disrupted ? that would be such a hard game oh my god. you would have to think twice before reaching a gate... no no no, too hard, let's stay ******ed. let's keep the carebearing spirit so the game will get so much fun !!! woohoo !!"
"i support this only if gate guns get put on every gate and go a minimum of 20,000 damage per shot and have 100% tracking. guns of course will need to be put in nullsec as well also they will need range so 300km like large pos guns will be good."
"you are a carebear. you care for carebears."
"bad idea. a proper gate camp can pretty much catch everything already, and too easily. if anything gates need more guns which focus fire and warp scrambling batteries, the current system is a joke. this change would also be the final nail in the coffin for solo pvp."
"sure sure... i can't understand why we should play an online game in a sand box with other players if it's not in order to spend all our days farming, everyone on his own side... i mean, figthing each other without losing anything real for just having fun has no sense..."
"nvm all vote needed. :d"
"signed"
"yarr!"
"do you realy belive what you are saying?i don't. if some big and nasty incursions should occur is there where the big firepower and brave honorable warriors are abble to counter them.the game will not be better with jita or another trade hub invaded, people will just log off or go to another system, wait untill it's clear, but this will not have a great impact in their economie other than sell more ships and mods to you out there.while in low/null this will have an impact."
"so the new lofty scam will be getting people to rep your mission boat, at which point you are free to shoot them until you stop declaring war on your alt corp?it's bad enough that the guy you're repping can shoot you and by consequence flag you with gcc for aiding a pirate, and bring concord upon your own sorry arse.what's wrong with simply giving neutral reppers an aggression timer so they can't dock for 15 minutes, and their ship will stay in space for 15 minutes after they've logged off?"
"eve is a harsh universe. you are forced to rethink every action. if you want to go rep someone who isn't in your corporation you aid them. plus i am talking when you neutral rep someone in a pvp situation. repping outside a pvp situation is a whole other ballpark.don't rep people whom you don't know. repping a crappy unknown frigate with your logistics just is asking for being gankscammed. you won't see someone in a macharial pull that scam. and if someone in a frig asks for a neutral rep just tell em to dock and repair. if you feel so in need to help you can even send them some isk to cover the repaircost.as stated before, 15 minutes just don't cut it. make the penalty for chosing a side clear."
"this has nothing to do with the csm. it's at ccp's discretion to exclude former csm for breaking the nda.the csm's sole duty exsists in giving the community a voice in regards to the game. whether someone is excluded from the future csm's however has nothing to do with the game as it is."
"what purpose does this serve? are you under threat from a previous delegate? it should be at the discretion of ccp and them alone to make a ruling of this precedent. last i heard it was a breach of eula for players to form a witchhunt against individuals."
"dreads aren't useless, republic alliance just used them to take out 12 carriers and 2 super caps of white noise in 1 engagement. worked pretty well."
"actually,. something did happen. a ccp moderator removed some of ildryns post 684. you can see the result at the bottom of that post in yellow text. they did it quickly, but id already quoted it in my post of 687 where i give him a reply at the bottom of that post. until just now i was unaware that delilah had reported the issue. i hadnt thought the veiled threat was important, but apparently ccp agreed with her. -windjammer"
"collective behavior? i'm agreeing with ildryn and finn about ank (although i didn't say she had mental issues, only that she had a lack of common sense) on numerous issues such as her inability to control herself in a business setting, her lack of good judgement, to name a few. before you stated that ildryn was either immature or a drunk, now you are saying the same thing about me in a backhanded way. if fact, i have yet to refer to either you or windjammer in a negative way; you are the one who started commenting about me.again i never stated anything about her mental health beyond saying she lacked common sense. i don't care to defame ank, what i do care about is that someone with her behavior getting on to the csm. you probably won't believe me, but i too am a carebear. i've done pvp for a time, but i was also a director in an anti-pirate corporation. i don't care about suicide ganking, but i do think it's a valid tactic and should not be removed from the game by implimenting harsh penalties for those who do partake in it; which is what ank stood for. if someone else comes around who has the same ideals and behaviors as ank i will be just as vocal about that person, and i will point to ank as an example.i'm not hostile toward her, but i do think she lies (see my earlier comments about her misleading resume) and i do think she is unfit to handle responsibility (per her breaching of the nda). again i never made a claim about her mental health; but yes, you're right that i am not in a position to assess her mental health. i am in a position to say that she lied on her cv.see above comment regarding her gaining a position on the csm. you're the one who is calling me names by calling me a \"cur\". again, i haven't made any comment about you, so why are you calling me names?this forum is to discuss, debate, and generally disagree on different aspects of the csm. when ank entered her name into csm politics she had to expect people to disagree with her and make judgements on her past, present, and future actions. that is what i'm doing here, i am stated my opinion of her public actions and statements. i have been respectful to you, yet you call me a \"cur\", who is being disrespectful?"
"ah, i did not see when he wrote that. yes, i don't agree with that type of threat now that i see where you quoted him. i'm a big enough person to admit when i'm wrong and i am wrong about what i stated in my quote above."
"just offered for you to meet me in person to see if i was a wannabe or not. the offer still stands. i do have a few trophies i was going to offer to show you along with a picture of my trainer i was going to show you so you could see for yourself in person that i was not a wannabe. then i figured we could go to the coffee shop and sit down and discuss the details about ank in person.of course since a couple of you were intimidated (even secretly) you immediately jump to the wrong conclusion that it was a threat. next time ask someones intention before you invent them in your paranoid mind.this is possibly why you are protecting ank from ank and the other posters on this forum. you perceive them as threats when really they just genuinely wish for her to seek help.offer still stands to meet in person."
"troeg, if you would like to disassociate yourself from the smears about anks mental health, i welcome that. for this i happily stand corrected. as for cur, curs are as curs do. there are many meanings, of course. one is a snarling street dog, used as a metaphor for vicious and unprovoked attacks. being curlish is acting like a cur. i'll make no apology for identifying the outrageous behaviour of those trashing ank as curlish and thus curs. whether one is a cur or not rests on a moral decision we make both in eve and in real life. nonetheless, i say this gently and with respect. i appreciate you standing corrected with respect to ildryn and that communicates well of your intent. i also respect your right to differ with ank over questions of policy. whether we agree or not, i think there is room here for legitimate debate and difference of opinion. if we could depersonalize these debates, and talk about policy issues not people, i'd be very happy. cheers, delilah"
"trophies? photos of your trainer?"
"it was a veiled threat. you know it, i know it, other people see it and know it, ccp apparently knew it and acted upon it by removing some of your post, ccp didnt think it was a big deal since they didnt ban you, i didnt think it was a big deal, i wasnt intimidated by it and i didnt report it. the veiled threat police are not going to come knocking on your door. your best course of action is to ignore it, let it drop and not bother with denying it. alternately, you could fess up and defuse any potential flamers. your call, your business.trophies and a picture of your trainer..just what exactly do you think defines a person who is tough?ankh doesnt need help of the kind your insinuating. i dont think you believe that anymore, but if you do, all you have to do is read some of the links ive posted to see it isnt so.-windjammer"
"dont worry about it. it was an easy thing to miss.-windjammer"
"there is no way to effectively discuss such a set of far-reaching changes with the current tools available to us. eft/evehq or any of the homegrown equations and algorithms that people have come up with in these discussions do not take into account all the factors involved in actual gameplay, and it would seem even ccp does not perform rigorous game balance testing unless a dev feels the need to jump on and personally champion an alteration. this (hybrid/gallente) issue has no such champion.reading these discussions it becomes clear that (pulling number out of the air) about 80% of people agree something needs to change with hybrids and/or the gallente faction, but nobody can agree on what..... so nothing gets done and 1/4 of the games assets become nearly obsolete. that sounds like a waste of time for everybody involved, not in the least ccp having already put in the work to create those assets.so... apparently it's up to us, but we don't have the tools, we don't have the ears of the developers because there isn't time or interest on their end to actually sit down and discuss this agenda in depth, and we get very limited involvement from the csm who are trying to juggle a number of other different issues to bring to the attention of ccp, all of which matter.if i had my way, we'd get a couple of devs in on a few mass-testing esque singularity sessions which would be advertised and we could simply run through a set list of ships to modify and try to crowdsource a balance that way. but given this kind of masstesting has only been approved for incursions and lag testing (which affects every player in the game, not just 1/4 of them) i don't hold out much hope. of course such sessions would likely turn into *****-fests of one form or another as there would be no way to enforce any level of civility or professionalism on a gaggle of 500 neckbeards each with their own pet theories on how to proceed.the root of the problem is this: exactly how we are supposed to come up with a detailed proposal when we have no way of testing any of our assumptions? the purpose of this forum is to identify a problem and bring it to the attention of csm. csm then brings it to the attention of ccp - hopefully effectively. we can't provide a solution to this problem, but we are clearly all very unhappy about the current state of affairs. we can throw random ideas out, but without a clear understanding of either ccp's vision for the game or the underlying mechanisms through which it operates, random ideas is all they'll be."
"it's been longer than 13 months, no?triple the range. buff their tanks so people actually use them in combat instead of using them as mini-titans.how many more threads have to be posted about this?i'm sick of begging ccp to fix their game while they waste my subscription dollars on vampires and console games."
"his is why im closing this topic when i havnt heart about ccp in a week if they are working on it or not. this subject is running for 14 months, exellent prove that ccp dont even listen to csm and that needs to be propaganded in a shot amount of time..."
"bump"
"i fully support this topic, but you realise not being interested in people who say no will screw with your results.\"look! 100% of people (x number) support my topic! (but i didn't include anyone who said no)\""
"even gallente avatars are underpowered! the optimal + falloff on my portrait does not come anywhere near justifying the small dps increase my awesome beard provides. +supported."
"i agree and would add that there ought to ba a small rotating team that is checking the number crunching for all races after each major 'patch'm"
"yeah, the bs need some rebalancing. supercaps seem good though."
"/supported"
"i'd much rather see a bigger hip/booty options.. sure whats there now is decent, but i have friends who're much more endowed than that."
"for that you would need some kind of elementary boob/ass physic. you can get away without one with cartoonish models, heavy armor and flat chested characters, but with realistic body models in clothing a large solid chests and asses will look very out of place. with pictures it doesn't matter, but when we get to animations, with realistic characters and realistic physics with everything else, those solid parts will stick out like sore thumb in a bad way. it's also pretty standard feature with modern games, so i can't see why some get upset over such a simple thing. it seems boob physics are taken for granted these days and ass physics are the new boob physics in gaming. i can certainly see why, since the added realism and better looks attract a lot of positive attention. i haven't heard anyone ever complaining about having realistic boob/ass physics in a game. they complain it is unnecessary at times, but no one ever wants to get rid of it.it might be better to make and use the same basic physics for all such soft jiggly areas. breasts, ass, fat belly could all use some jolly jiggling and as long as you are making it for one part, you might as well alter some parameters and use it for the others too."
"now that i agree with"
"/jigglelets :)"
"in this case ccp is provably wrong, as has been discussed on this board many times before, because blasters cannot apply even a fraction of their dps unless both attacker and target are completely stationary. i understand railguns are clearly a gimp weapons system and were designed to be a pointless afterthought from the get-go (which leaves gallente without a long-range engagement option), but blasters are clearly referenced many times as the primary weapon system of the gallente next to drones (which are also terrible in their current state)there is a problem with the weapons themselves, and there is a problem with the ships, and there is a problem in the interaction between the game mechanics and the entire faction's engagement philosophy. that is why there have been at least two \"fix hybrid/gallente\" threads on page one of the assembly hall, features and ideas and ships and modules forums for the past four months."
"as an example: the vagabond flies much faster, is significantly more maneuverable, and its guns have dramatically more range than the deimos. not a fair trade for a slight damage and tracking increase between ac and blasters.the boats need a bonus that negates the impact of armor modules directly by changing either the ships maneuverability and/or their ability to accelerate. i think they are currently one and the same modifier. minmatar should have maneuverable or high speed, not both. gallente should have one of these perks to fix their ships.the blasters need to have the sig radius of the weapons decreased and the tracking increased. or just a straight increase to damage. the negatives of the weapons do not balance the positives. either decrease the negatives (infringing on other weapons niche) or increase the positives."
"omgwtfbbqbumpofoblivioness(ok so oblivioness isn't a word...but he said my bumps suck.)"
"don't worry about that, blasters thread exists now for more than 2years and they din't even take a look at it/say something or they have s hit at the eyes."
"personally i think it would be a lot better to make alliances do convoy ops. it gives people more to do. so i totally support getting rid of jump bridges."
"it is about both. that's the whole bit about altering game mechanics to allow small alliances to be independent even if player-created politics wouldn't lean that way, and potentially causing coalitions to tear themselves apart. as i've pointed out many times, while i see no valid reason to remove jb's, the major problem is the precedent that altering game mechanics to alter player-created content sets. the topic would be significantly different if ccp simply kicked around the idea of changing (or even removing) jb's without explicitly tying it in to altering player-created content so small alliances can be independent and large coalitions are more likely to disintegrate and shoot each other. i wish folks would avoid this sort of obvious nonsense. i clearly state that everybody should be allowed to determine how player-created politics get sorted out, by the processes of conflict and cooperation between and among themselves, and that whatever happens should be the result of 100% of eve's playerbase getting to choose. others claim that their specific playstyle should be supported at the expense of how others like to play. and i need to be reminded that the game isn't only about me. 'i just got ganked by people using game mechanics to beat me, and someone has argued against removing them. that just shows why he is arguing the way he is. what? i'm the one who got ganked? i don't understand what you're getting at...'jb's made for great pvp and made cva's providence one hell of a fun place to hunt. i suppose that's because most of us didn't cry about being \"blobbed\" or how unfair it was, and how much we needed ccp to change things to help us, when cva brought a bigger fleet than us and boxed us into a system by jump bridging back and forth. we just went for the fights. and here, you were trying to avoid combat and jb's allowed a gang to catch you. but jb'ing, in your telling of events at least, prevented you from avoiding pvp.remind me again, are you on the \"more pvp is good, by definition\" side of the discussion?"
"honestly i dont think you have any idea what a sandbox game is finnagain.let me help you out: a sandbox game by definition is \"a video game with no linear storyline or specific goal, the player deriving amusement from a range of open-ended interactions or situations.\"as it is no one is stopping you from joining a super coalitions or joining a small roaming corp / alliance.should these changes go through, that choice is unimpeeded by any potential changes. more to the point, this game was a sandbox game before jumpbridges or titan bridges were ever used. so suggesting that their removal would somehow stop this game being a sandbox game is verging on mad panic."
"ccp put jbs in, and some time later they're wondering if jbs aren't actually turds, polluting the sandbox and ruining the experience for everyone.jbs themselves aren't necessarily so bad. cyno transport by itself isn't necessarily so bad. perhaps it's not that jbs and cynos are turds in the sandbox as much as gravel. a concept in line with the rest of the sandbox, just poorly implemented.some simple changes would be enough to balance the issue out a little: reduce the maximum range of any cyno (jf, bobs, capital, jb) and add a jump drive spool up time or as per one of my suggestions, have an \"intensity\" which is incremented for each cycle of the cynoprojector, with larger ships requiring more intense beacons. bring the sport back into hunting.attacking the cyno ship must be a viable option for those on-grid when the cyno is lit."
"any change to the game alters the player-created content set. your argument is invalid and absurd. you don't like the idea of removing jbs because you're more interested in your own personal security rather than the good of the game. but this is obvious."
"well, no, not for everybody. for those who don't like them, there are evidently 10's of thousands who do. but be that as it may, again the problem isn't so much that they found a mechanic that was working a way they didn't like, but that it's being done specifically to reshape player-created politics and break sandbox play. why should small alliances be independent? seriously. eve is a sandbox game, and we determine our own political arrangements. the only way anybody should be independent is if they can convince others to leave them alone. that's the whole point behind player-created political content. you are deliberately ignoring that the word i used was \"to\" and not \"and\". yes, any change alters how players will play the game. creating changes specifically in order to alter player-created content and break sandbox play, on the other hand, is quite different. tune in next week for another episode of internet psychologist, same time, same channel."
"seems there is a lot of people that are very unhappy with the minmatar races being very asian.is this being discussed by the csm? if not, why not? toon appearances are very important for walking in stations and central to an mmo as you live in that toon for your entire game."
"i like how val turned out, but i wouldn't mind a bit more of the mongol look from before."
"vherokiors and khanids are a bugger to do much of anything with. vherokiors look drugged or asleep altogether; their eyes are slits. khanids look bug-eyed at best. i had two tries with this khanid and she still could use help. i agree that the looks of your character are important, just as stats, training and ships are. they are all what makes your toon unique. if we didn't care about any of that, we'd be playing carbon-copy-character shooter games.i vote for a race change option too: nowadays there are no stat differences so what does it matter? your training, corp/alliance choices and mission faction decide your path, not your original race choice. how about calling it witness protection surgery and offering everyone a shot at it?"
"supported"
"am i really seing csm go on about character creator 'tweaks'? half your tweaks require rebuilding the entire system. sure, a \"stop fidgeting, dammit!\" might be useful for taking pictures; but then you lose the whole animation part of the character creator. not a major tweak though; it just has to shut off animations.changing the methods of tweaking the characters nose, or pinching his cheaks; is contrary to the purpose of the model, and would require a complete rewrite of front-end code. not to mention, various animation features; some to be replaced, and others to be removed. given the amount of times you will actually be generating portraits of your characters; do you really think it neccessary, that ccp scrap their idea for yours?please, csm, get your priorities straight."
"first you gotta ask yourself, why is \"the whole animation part of the character creator\" there to begin with? it looks cute, but it's not really functional. to answer the question myself, i think your model inside the character creator is animated because... in-game the animation can't be seen anywhere else yet, and ccp still wanted to show off their cool animatronics. inside the character creator it isn't all that useful, though.nonsense. tweaking facial (and other) aspects of your character is the express purpose of the character creator!nonsense. adding a few extra tweaks is precisely that: adding a few extra tweaks.don't look upon it as changing so much, as completing an unfinished product. the character creator is at the basis of a whole new 3d experience: you want to get that right."
"i don't have to ask myself anything; to be perfectly honest about it. i know why it's there; and it serves it's purpose. without it, the characters would just be plastic models; where the animations actually bring life to them. you may not see it, or even need it; but, i'm sure you'll remember the old system. it was like pushing silly putty around. this allows you to see how the characters appear with full animations; and really, it doesn't offer that much distraction for me. i think you missed the point. i was referring to using arrow keys to move the features around; which would require, at best, clicking and holding, while tapping the keys either way. when i referred to the 'model, i was referring to the design of the character creator; not the actual animated character you see, when you are adjusting your facial features. mousing over an area, clicking, and pulling left, right, up, or down; is all that really needs to be done to shape the face. they even include a graphical front end; which indicates the direction to sweep your mouse. pull it, tweak it, pinch it; sculpt it, as intended. that's the 'model'.i won't claim to know a whole lot about coding; but, i am fairly certain, this is not what you think.adding features from the old character creator, to the new one, is not finishing the product; which, while slightly lacking in ammenities, is quite polished as it is. so maybe there isn't quite the option of clothes, you might like; but having thousands of possible appearances for each race/gender combination, is well beyond unfinished.just be happy that ccp has given you the most advanced character generation system in the world; and be done with your squabbling and bickering, over what you consider to be missing features. it is very well done, and exceeds every standard; marking it, as a \"most excellent\" accomplishment. just be satisfied with that, for now."
"..excuse the alt. he's new, and doesn't know better.speaking of which. i made a character creator tutorial video; and uploaded it in two parts. it's the first time i've done this sort of thing; so don't think to poorly, of my effort. you can find it hereedit:..and here, is the second part."
"i do not argue with that job is fulfilled very well, but it should be better than at others and i just as also many other players have already noted that faces of same races on avatars very much and are very similar against each other.divide muscles of lips, make more mobile parts of the face on a step of portrait creation and add hardly more possibilities to move and change a part of the person on a step of customization.nevertheless it seems to me that body parts change very badly, and the mimicry is held very down."
"i'll agree that the facial animations could be more mobile; when using the portrait features. certainly, it's hard to make a reasonably decent, toothy smile; and you can't lift the cheeks, to represent a smile that shows in the eyes. the only thing you really can do there; is push the lower lid up, on the side that you happen to be smiling. it is some semblance of it, at any rate; and enough, provided you don't push it to far. a little overboard on that lower lid; and it looks like your character means to tear somebody apart, savagely. it's a fine line.if you watch the second part of my tutorial, near the end; you'll notice i push the bottom jaw up, to close the mouth. this is because, i noticed fairly early on; any smile showing teeth, looks a little slack jawed. lips are pulled up, in the act of smiling; jaws don't hang open, that way. of course, i don't really think that was the intent; as i'm sure there's an expression, it appropriately fits, which i haven't used.there is allowed some exageration to the way you can move things around; and i believe this is entirely reasonable, as it allows for some interesting characteristics. the lantern jaw, sloped brow, overdeveloped cheekbones, and the like; which, i've seen occaisionally, among real people. generally not all at once; but, thats all in the choice. physical characteristics of the body, have similar changes; allowing for sagging buttocks, pert breasts, underdeveloped musculature; and various other features, which could be carefully applied.i do have one, small grouch: i like women to be fit, and well toned; something, which doesn't seem to be available. from the one experiment i tried, on sisi; the musculature just doesn't show, no matter how it's applied. sure, the women can look fit enough; but, not athletic, or sleekly toned and muscular. truth.. i rarely see any women that actually fall into that category; but, that doesn't mean they don't exist by any means. i'm rather disappointed you can't model a character in that fashion; as its perfectly reasonable, to expect to be able to do so.there are certainly options though; thats just the one thing missing. it's all covered up for now, anyway; so its really not that important. sure, i mention a few things in my video's; but i consider those personal opinions. something not shared by all; as maybe that last may not be. it's just a preference. there's a lot of people playing this game; and i'm sure half haven't considered it. quite a few would likely disagree with me on many points; which is also perfectly acceptable, and alright.sorry.. i tend to make wall of text posts; in conversational fashion, with regularity.regardless.. sure, it could see some changes, and become better; but then, nothing is ever perfect, and we can't expect that. for all that, i just don't see it as a priority; and think time could be better spent on other things."
"hello guys,the new gui-view of autopilot-routes is funny, but i wish it had a little 'upgrade' now you can get informations by hovering and right-clicking on the dots. there you can get system information and other stuff - and you can remove waypoints. but if i have a lot of them travelling through the galaxy, and my plans have to change, i have to rightclick each of the dots to see if it is a waypoint or not.what about some visual addition to those waypoits, somewhat like a shiny border, more height, slow flashing or something else. that wouldn't be a great jump forwards in playing, but i think it would be nice yours h'aef"
"had the same thought myself."
"there are a couple groups that are barking up the wrong tree.local removers: want ratters to not run away at the sight of single hostile in local, therefore they want to remove local. (this group also includes all the anti-carebears even if they oppose local removal)macro haters: everyone hates macros, so they propose various \"solutions\" that would make ratting suck for everyone except the macros.ratters are in ****ty fits are only usable against the npc's so it's no wonder they don't want to engage players.macros are fighting against predictable, stupid npc's, it's too easy to make a macro for such mundane activity, i can't even blame them, it's really boring.what the eve needs is complete overhaul of npc ai.i propose these changes:1. make all the rats have omni-resists.2. make all the rats have omni-dps.3. make all the rats run away when losing, if not warp scrambled/disrupted.4. make all the rats drop better loot and have higher bounties.5. make all the rat spawns smaller.6. make all the rats switch targets.7. make all the rats use capacitor and let us neut them and turn off their modules if they run out of cap.there may be other changes, but in short: i want to use same fits for pvp and pve and i want rats to be less predictable than they currently are.ccp please make ratting fun! :)"
"i agree with 3-7. however, 1 and 2 need to be rethinked. 2. instead of omni, why not just have the spawn with random ammo. for br and sansha this would change the ranges and amount of damage. for angels it would alter the damage type done as well as range, and amount. as for 1. there tanks should be made close to pvp as possible. to reflect that they arn't as powerful as us (players) maybe all t1 fit for standard rats. with the meta going up with the ranking of the rat. faction rats would be fit with all faction mods. etc. thats a balance issue and best left to ccp and tests on sisi.i would also add one: 8. have npcs use drones.there ships have drone bays. why arn't they using them?"
"all races can use drones though,yeah some more than others, but i would love to see more variety on the field. now its a case of either ecm drones or combat drones"
"maybe make drone boat bonuses apply to ewar drones as well, ie the dmg bonus would also apply to the effectiveness of ewar."
"think of it, a bit like a t3, in that all the modules would fit together seamlessly; being designed in that fashion, and potentially scalable, using the same technology as the character creator. pos modules would also--idealy--benefit; from having their textures auot-assigned based on the primary structures faction. there would be no need for multiple models; of any given structure, except the base pos structure. the interlocking mechanism, of the primary structure to the modules; would be the same, for each faction pos that existed. all that would change, is the design between structural hardpoints; and the textures applied to all structures, as a whole.constructing the pos, would be relatively easy, and semi-guided; as a result, of there being only so many variables available. instead of dropping structures in space, and attempting to maneuver them into the right position, from a skewed perspective; packaged modular structures would be dropped into a construction hangar, and deployed from the 3-dimensiol management and control interface. in this way, you could easily assemble your pos; with a simple point-and-click interface. ignoring the scalability for now, as that might be difficult; to merge with the 3-dimensional command interface. the reason being that the nature of the command interface; would require predetermined structural regularities. scaling, and stretching models; would be hard to integrate, with this sort of model. potentially impossible; at this stage. interesting idea though.here's an example of how one might approach pos assembly:for the example, we'll use a base--faction unknown--pos structure; and we'll add to it, a 3-point bridgeway, and a hangar.structural hardpoints nodes will be visible as small hemispheres; on the surface of the 3-dimensional interface structure. we'll click on one of those nodes, to access a drop down menu; which will then display the various structures, which can be connected to that node. the node currently selected is near the base of the model; and one of 6 identical nodes, in a ring around that part of the model. the node has only one available option; that being the hangar array, which is highlighted. the reason it is highlighted, being that; we have dropped 4 such modules, in the construction hangar. we also have placed a 3 point bridge in the construction hangar; but that is for later, so we'll move back to the fictitious model.selecting hangar from the list, we get a pop-up menu; it is asking us if we wish to assemble the structure in this location. we click yes to begin the anchoring process; and recieve a warning, indicating that we have a 5 minute anchoring period. do we wish to proceed? yes. this begins the anchoring stage. a 5 minute timer begins counting down; and we can now exit the interface window. looking at the pos structure in space, we can see the hangar array begin to take shape; extending outward from the pos with a basic framework, and resolving into its eventual shape.returning to the command interface, we decide we'd like to begin anchoring another array; which we can do now--with this new pos--unlike those old pos's which required waiting for each individual structure. we continue with our anchoring process, and soon have an adjacent hangar structure; as well as two--also adjacent to each other--structures on the opposite side of the tower. we have a new command available now. clicking on two adjacent structures, to highlight them; we right-click, and bring up another menu. this one has one feature; which says 'merge hangar modules.\" of course, we want to, so we click on that selection; and affirm that we, \"yes,\" indeed do, want to merge these modules. the two hangars will now effectively function as one; granting twice the storage space of one individual hangar. this will be much more effective; for storing all those precious resources.cont..."
"you mean kinda like this? i compiled these ideas a long time ago, but ccp is hesitant to touch the pos code due to the spaghetti code, which they're just now trying to get straightened out and updated to take advantage of new capabilities.ccp already knows about this (i brought this up during my term on the csm). now it comes down to when they can allocate the manpower and audacity to make it happen."
"moving on, with our timer slowly ticking away the seconds; we notice, that it has 18 minutes, 45 seconds remaining on it. checking the bridging structure; we see that it has a 2 minute, 50 second anchoring time. clicking on a node about mid-way up the 3-dimensional inbterface's model; we see that this one, will allow us to connect our bridging structure, as well as a number of other things. among these, are class i offensive platforms(those not involving drones), point-to-point bridging structures(for extending a single structural node, away from the base structure), and bridging pylons(a structural brace, which also acts as a secondary structural node arm; two of which, are required to connect to a lateral bridging array). the lateral bridging array, has two secondary nodes on it; which you can connect larger assembly structures too. there is also a bi-lateral bridging array, for connecting even larger structures; which requires the use of 3 bridging pylons, but i digress..we select the 3-point bridging structure of course, as it is highlighted; and confirm that, \"yes,\" we want to anchor it in this location. this add's 2 minutes, 50 seconds to the timer; and we find ourselves with 15 minutes remaining. my little digression; took a little time. so now, we click on the individual structures, which are now in the process of anchoring; and from the dropdown menu, select online when anchored. we do this for all the structures, save the bridging array; noting that the merged hangars, now select as one module. this add's a secondary timer, below the first, in the command interface; which will begin to count down, after the anchoring has completed. it says, \"5 minutes.\"all structures will of course, complete anchoring at the same time; and will likewise, complete their onlining process, at the same time. remarkably, we do not have long to wait; so it's time to go pick up some more modules for our pos.and so on.. you have it. that's the general idea; i hope you like it."
"i won't say it isn't similar; but its certainly not the same. i resolved to leave most pos mechanics the same; and simply redesign the pos, and management interface. there is some additional stuff, which i have mentioned; but its more for customization, than any major modification to final function. in the end, you still can't dock on a pos, or have it repair you vessel; and it does not have any of the functions of a real station. a lot of what you've suggessted, can be found in the larger player stations; and has more in common with those structures, than with our typical pos.i have no idea what spaghetti code is.. honestly, i rather like my idea; but then, thats only natural. i was also considering the potential for upgrade modules, with their own particular structural hardpoints; which would replace the need for more than one size of pos. these would allow for individual increases to powergrid, cpu, shields, and armor; while increasing the number of structural hardpoints, with which, additional modules could be mounted to the pos. these additional structural nodes, would be on the individual upgrade modules; which would connect to upgrade nodes, on the main pos structure. one for each, with only a few available configurations; to allow for additional options in pos set-up. should 8 upgrade hardpoints be available overall; still, only four of them, could be used. an upgrade to what would effectively be a large pos; would require an extension to the upgrade, which would just increase it's size.these are only idea's of course.."
"yes it would be nice, but lots of planning will have to be done.but i do support this one here."
"we will sit the whole days and to destroy stations as in a series of south park about worldofwarcraft no way!but interaction of players with stations is necessary for reconsidering for more realism than: \"we do a very strong pewpew in to station during an 1,5 hours and the station became ours\". it has bothered for a long time already and became stupid.give to us some more to hear about particulars of a siege of station, about details of concerning its capture, about errors, failures during it, about risks and an amount of the spent resources, about real damages which were received by station, about ruined stations and ststions recovered from ruins and to result in working state. give more detailed story about corrupting and repair.also stop to feed us with any repairing beams and rays. yes, it is science-fiction game, but an amount of beams and rays in it, can pass line of marasmus.p.s.the variant with repairing through normal expenditure of isk's - seems to me same inappropriate, as well as a large quantity of rays of different colors which do anything you like in game.it is possible to invent something more interesting than simply expenditure of isk's - something that will demand to move and something to do in the interesting form."
"sounds good white it would help me alot, i hate having to siv throu all the info of systems just to turn up to an empty belt :p you got my support"
"i would support this if it gave an option to change the ingame font size"
"/support support support"
"excel in space needs a ui overhaul - i imagine many people would agree with that but is the windows7 rip-off ui the way to go? i'm not sure having only played with it a little on sisi myself and now having ccp pulled it (indefinitely?) it's seems either it was bugged or wasn't doing what they wanted.we need *something* done, that's true."
"no, buddy... you got it all wrong. that's not from multiplicity, it's photoshopped by t'amber on another forum and used here for trolling.you can check out t'amber's other work at:"
"that really ****es on my parade. don't frickin trolls have anything better to do?"
"i trusted, i hoped, and all it only a joke... in general, we continue to support idea.the screenshot speaks for itself."
"on the other hand apsidia, i'd fly that furry thrawn.seriously though, don't feel bad, i fell for it as well as many others."
"and i liked that snow camouflage on the thorax and megathron painting under a zebra :]"
"i'm gunna go ahead and put my 2 cents in on this. i understand that ccp is under alot of pressure to do something to combat the frequency of high sec war decs, as the outcry against us \"griefers\" has reached epic levels in the past few months.now whether or not this was an intended nerf to high sec war declaring corporations or not, this is an incredibly detrimental new addition to the game. prior to the patch it was possible to not display pilots in your overview unless they were set red, blue, or were war targets.this latest patch changed the definition of what a \"neutral\" is, and subsequently the overview will display all pilots in your overview who have no standing to you. to get these pilots removed from your overview, you would need to set them, their corporation, or alliance to neutral (something which, for 7 years, has been a default standing if no other standings were set) and then go into your overview and select to have neutrals removed from your overview.having said that, the defence to this argument is going to be \"yeh, but ccp just increased the amount of contacts your address book can hold\"....does ccp really wish for us to strain their database with 1024 address book entries just so we can ensure that our overviews are clean?give us back the old overviews...do not let this go untouched like the cyno effect and engine trails."
"supporting my own topic"
"what do you know, yet another balls upi support this*feels important*"
"i too support this act =)"
"you mad bro?yeah, you sound mad."
"i support this. also, i should add i don't just have a problem with this. i have a problem with the ui in it's entirety. the whole thing. i've set it up the best i can, given the options available, and i still hate it. i've hated it since day 1."
"i also support this *wink*"
"bumping this to top for all emoragequit incursion rr pilots to see and support."
"looks like you got your wish. unforunately ccp is reimbursing rr concord losses. oh well. in any case, me and probably everyone else on sisi saw this coming from a mile away. everyone except ccp. this thread has been around for quite a while... i wonder if they even noticed it."
"a couple comments:- simply being on a killmail doesn't make you good at pvp. i would argue that being on 10000 killmails with 50 other people is proof positive that you don't know anything about pvp.- some of the best pvpers i know are very rarely on killmails.- i appreciate the ability to post fake lossmails to throw people off. it's so juicy when they try to research you and think you're a nubcake. :)- i find your opinion totally irrelevant because you are more motivated by getting the killmail than getting the fight. the fact that you claim to know what motivates pvpers is mindboggling.and if you're looking for liang's recent combat history -- so sorry. i \"neglected\" to set up a corp/alliance killboard. we do occasionally share killmails on battleclinic though - so you'll have the best luck there.-lianged: while liang is one of my 65-70m sp mains, i do want to point out that i do the majority of my pvp on other accounts. mostly so that people will get their mind off the ****ing killboard and on the point i'm trying to make."
"without killmails, there will be no reporting of what happens with respect to pvp in the game except from ccp.\"screen shot or it didn't happen\".right now we get to hear about vast fleets of ships, from players, that fight each other in nullsec. we hear about gangs roaming around other places chewing up large amounts of ships. all of this with links to killmails to back up claims.it's not perfect but it beats the hell out of dead silence with gossip/rumors attempting to fill it all in. we get that from most other aspects of the game.this at least lets the players see the numbers and decide for themselves if they are accurate or not."
"skex relbore: moron.anubis: thinking person. to not support this you are one of the guys who think they are pros from whooring the crap out of killmails all day. camping a station all day and using boosting alts and whatnot does not make you good at pvp. doesn't make you bad either, but because of their killboard (the reason they try so hard to camp and not die) they think they are top dogs and so do other people. buy a spaceship, no implants, no alts whatsoever, fit for pvp and go roaming once in a while. that is for the true pvper. the one you don't ***** with. solo pvp is \"dead\" because of killboards. and it's the truth.edit: if you want proof there was a huge fleet battle, goddamn, get someone to fraps it. it's not hard. hell, press the button that says prtscrn on you frickin keyboard people."
"there is also no point in solo pvp if i don't have a killmail to prove my ability. killboards already award less points for blobbed kills and in the case of battle clinic, exponentially less points for blob kills. but overall killboards do not emphasize the point aspect as much as the isk/kill efficiencies which is where your glorious epeen arguments probably stem from."
"really? that's a rather myopic viewpoint. all i have to do is undock."
"why is there no point in solo pvp without killmails? what about fleet pvp? that can work fine without them too? of course they both would work very well without killmails, but what exactly are you trying to say? the idea that killmails are the only reason to pvp is... pretty weird."
"let me tell you some stories.i remember a long time ago, i was flying a drake - back when the drake was the \"worst pvp ship in the game\". it was a hml drake, and i warped to a gate. a gank mega (the \"best pvp ship in the game\") landed on top of me and proceeded to kick my ass. except that i one volleyed his drones... and then proceeded to kick his ass. he did get away in structure and i didn't get the killmail. but that was a good fight.i remember a while back i was flying around in a thrasher and came across an older player in a vexor sporting t2 drones. i'm a bit crazy so i engaged him and focused on primarying his drones. it took a while, but i did eventually run him out of drones... and then i ransomed him for 10 mil. that was a fantastic fight and one of the best 10m i've ever earned.i was flying a drake when i got engaged by 2 hurricanes and a myrm. i fought them to a stand still and missed out on the killmails of the two canes as they died to sentry fire on the other side of the gate. i didn't miss out on the loot though. a while back i was flying... a brutix? i engaged a drake and took him to armor. he ejected and i missed the pod. but, i bookmarked my free drake. no killmail. awesome kill. :)i was flying a cyclone and engaged an af. he tried to do the ab+scram thing but it didn't work out too well for him. got him onto vent to for the ransom. eeeppppiiiccc!!!! killmails don't mean ****. the fights are what matter.-lianged: not many \"recent\" stories because i'm afraid i might out an alt. :)"
"well i think kill-mail is a waste of broadband...but if that is what the kids want? screw them...if we can we will just jam the kill-maili'll send someone over to pop up the station now...(remember this is a game)"
"oh look would this be another anubis alt? wouldn't surprise me since we're talking about someone who used their own sock puppet to bump their own stupid idea.oh and once again another person with crappy killboard status just reinforcing my point that most of the people who want to get rid of killboards are doing so because they suck.solo pvp is dead because the game isn't built to support it. but you know what there are plenty of solo pvpppers running around who do just fine. i'm not one of them and i don't pretend to be. i'm gonna take what ever i need kill your ass and killboard ranking be damned. different people play this game for different reasons with different motivations. some play it for the challenge of building an empire some play it to shoot rocks and mine **** some play to cause grief and yes some play to ***** onto killmails. at the end of the day the killboards only cause you grief if you let them. you are trying to define pvp as something far more constrained in this game than it is. oh let me add one to your little list.tony soxai: another fail pvper whining because the whole universe can see how fail they are."
"no i like my killmails. what else will my double sb zealot be needed for? btw there isn't anything wrong with km it's human nature. it's a game for freaking sake. treat it like one."
"this thread was stupid yesterday and its stupider today.we have a bunch of people who have almost no real experiance in pvp telling us why it is we pvp.as it is most killboards have a point system which distributes less points for blobbing / ecm ships / logis ships etc etc. this in a way encourages people to play solo / \"honorably\"people blob / ecm / gatecamp for many reasons, most of them boil down to \"people dont like losing\". removing kms will never stop people wanting to win. if anything you will be left with less people who care about what their rank / stats look like and you will most likely boil pvp down to enourmous fleet fights over moongold.but hey... if thats the path you want your pvp to take."
"you are arguing against a strawman here liang. i've never claimed that just being on a killmail makes one a good pvper. in fact i very specifically pointed out that one can tell the people who only blob from those who don't by looking at their killmail history. i had always assumed that you did most of your pvping on a different character from liang so i don't expect you to be represented on killboards. most of your arguments don't ring false so i don't call bull**** on them. i'll also point out that i said most people who object to killboards are fail pvpers and specifically noted that there are always exceptions.i don't appreciate the ability to post fake losses/kills it undermines the ability to have a good record of pvp history.the bit about being a killmail ***** is called sarcasm. i fight because i like fighting the killmails are just a record that i use to track progress to see my gradual change from sucking more to sucking less.oh i never claimed to know what motivates all pvpers not like the op who claims that all are motivated by nothing but the desire to gather killmails. what i said was that killmails do not encourage blobbing. the consequences of loss are what cause blobbing. killmails actually provide a disincentive to blob because of the way points are assigned by most killboards.of course i laugh at people who try to stay off killboards because whether you post or not eventually someone you fight is going to post it even if you don't. hell i even makes sure to post my losses to ensure as accurate record of possible exists. (plus i like to know exactly how a particular fit performed)"
"not supported...i have a better idea...if you don't like killmails...don't look at them. problem solved./thread"
"then it appears i misunderstood you.oh man, but its awesome. you can make yourself look like a total ****ing noob and it makes the kill ever so sweeter when they're completely dumbstruck. i don't really agree with that. many killboards still still rank people off of the total number of kills... and really even 10 points for a blob kill is better than no points - or negative points for a loss.you'd be amazed how many people don't post lossmails. -liang"
"no, i have exactly one alt, and she only exists to play lotteries.i always post mine, even when it only gets me attention from smackers and trolls for it."
"ok im not saying this is proof positive. but i would agree that this would make me think its quite likely this person does not really know how to pvp. but this is the important thing: the only way you know that they only blob is by the killmails!! killmails are the *only* consequence to pvp that does not encourage blobbing. every other consequence to pvp encourages blobbing.pvp for isk? then your best way is to blob.pvp for sov? then your best way is to blob.pvp to get killmails that demonstrate some skill? - dont blob.pvp for fun? of course we all do that. but one of the reasons its fun is the consequences. if you take away the consequences it wont be fun long. first you can fairly well much tell if someone is a decent pilot by looking at their killboard. no you dont just look at the ranking! if you just look at the ranking then you are an idiot. but that is not the fault of the killmail that you do not know how to read them. the killmails and killboards are still very helpful in determining if someone is a decent pvper.(at least solo or small gang pvper) second the better killboards like battleclinic do not give 10 points for a blob kill. im not saying the ranking is perfect but with it, and looking at the fits and the kills the person has with them you can get a sense if they are good or not. are pandemic legion and genos occidere pilots good pvpers? if you say yes then it should be no surprise to you that they do pretty well on the battleclinic rankings. without killmails to call out people, eve pvp will get much worse"
"why am i not surprised the op doesn't have a battleclinic record?you know km's are a tool. we use these to evaluate a fight after the fight (sure a little smack here and there), but an experienced fc will look at the battle report afterwards; and see what losses could have been negated and why, who isn't using standardized fits, who gimped their fit so they could ***** on the mail, etc etc so forth, and so on.also, aside from ship scanning a fleet before rolling out, km's are a good way to determine the experience of people applying to your corp/alliance or offering to kill people in the name of whatever.you say kill the killmails, i say fix them. with everything else thats messed up in this game; its pretty sad that this is what you came up with to try and change. all i want is an overview that works."
"i never use battleclinic, so anything that would be on there would be inaccurate anyway."
"your post is so completely full of epic fail that it's hard to respond to it constructively. i will try anyway.you utterly misunderstood my point about 10000 killmails. what i was pointing out is that your killboard score - no matter how it's scored - is not a useful metric for measuring how good your pvp skill is when it continues to give any points for \"blob\" kills. furthermore, there is no way at all to know if it was a \"good fight\" or a \"blob kill\" - afterall it isn't uncommon to only get a couple of kills when engaging a vastly superior force against the odds.consider:- a battleship kill with 5 bcs on it.- two cruiser kills with 5 bcs on them.how do you read those killmails? who blobbed - and who got blobbed? what's the story there? oh - that's right... there is insufficient information to answer even one of those questions. yet you feel that you can somehow evaluate someone's entire pvp experience and worth using only an arbitrary scoring metric based on insufficient information to give you a good idea of what happened if you were there?you say that the best way to get isk when pvping is to blob, yet that's patently false. the fc gets the isk and you might get a 100th of your ship value from the loot. you say that the best way to demonstrate skill is to not blob - but that's not really true because killmails don't tell the whole story.specific comments:- people pvp in \"lossless\" mmos all the time and have great fun in doing so. some of the best and most fun pvp i've ever had was in tier 1/2 in warhammer online... and i didn't lose anything at all when i lost.- you seem to be claiming that the lossmail is a consequence of pvp - and that giving someone a loss mail to report is somehow what drives you to pvp in eve. what the **** man?frankly, people like you are what is wrong with pvp in eve.-liang"
"there is more to reading a killboard than just reading individual kills. sometimes you need to look at the battle reports for other kills in the area at the same time. it doesn't change the fact that you can tell really quickly which pilots tend to fly with the blobs and which don't. as far as it being a useful metric or not that would depend on just how active a pilot is. admittedly it's not going to tell you much about a character with only say 10 or even 100 kills but once one crests 1000 well at that point patterns emerge. is it a perfect metric? no of course not there are no perfect metrics they all rely up on context. there are any number of factors to determine what level of confidence one has in a given metric. so a smart person recognizes this. a killboard for a pvp character is a bit like a resume. just because you have 10 years experience in your field doesn't mean you are particularly good at it. however the odds of you be better at it than some random ******* off the street are fairly good which is why recruiters and managers use resume's to screen potential candidates.they can be padded of course just like killboards and everyone tries to put the best possible spin on them. but they do serve a useful filtering purpose.you check these people you know who are really good pvpers. if they really are good their killboards will show it. unless they are good at a non-combat role such as logistics or scouting. but anyone with any sense understands that those are different skills from picking and winning fights. and those who don't will miss out on good recruits.but for all it's failiing killboards are not only the best way to get a quick read on a given characters combat experience and capabilities it's the only way to get that quick read. i see all kinds of people on these forums all the time who can talk a good game but there is a huge gulf of difference between knowing what to do in pvp in this game and actually doing it. i'm much better at theory crafting than i am at live pvp myself, so i don't give much credibility to people who simply talk a good game. anyone can read a pvp guide and sound like they have half a clue. not everyone can take that knowledge and translate it into actual kills. once again killboards aren't perfect but they are the best but also the only objective measure of a pilots pvp competence in this game."
"i think the main premise of this killmail discussion is invalid.whether one is good or bad at pvp is not influenced by presence or absence of killmail. removing them will not make people better or worse.whether certain pvp tactics are effective or not is not influenced by killmails.it is true that some people's decisions in battle are influenced by the presence of killmail. those who let thoughts of killmails interfere with good tactics will be punished with lower performance.therefore, letting killmails stay is the hardcore thing to do. only the weak suffer.edit:this is a true statement, all other measurements are subjective."
"2007.01.25 14:52victim: piratingcorp: every pirate corpalliance: unknownfaction: nonedestroyed: ransomingsystem: low secsecurity: 0.4damage taken: 1337involved parties:name: killmails (laid the final blow)security: -10.0corp: killmail *****s incalliance: nonefaction: noneship: killmailsweapon: epeendamage done: 1337destroyed items:ransomsisk from pvp2007.01.25 14:57victim: small gang pvpcorp: every pvp corpalliance: unknownfaction: nonedestroyed: solo pvpsystem: low secsecurity: 0.4damage taken: 1337involved parties:name: killmails (laid the final blow)security: -10.0corp: killmail *****s incalliance: nonefaction: noneship: killmailsweapon: epeendamage done: 1337destroyed items:committing to combatsmall gang pvpyeah, killmails are totally good for the game. -liang"
"you seem to be implying that killmails \"kill\" pirating and small gang pvpi happen to be a big supporter of promoting small gang pvp. but i address the real issues, not this silly drama.the real issues effecting small gang pvp:*) the great nano nerf - reduced speed tactics, ability of smaller forces to engage larger ones successfully*) gradual rise in defense/offense ratio due to numerous game altering patches, such as rigs, boosters, faction mods being much more defense than offensive, hp buffs, gang links, stacking nerfs*) 0.0 made safe for alliances with jbs, jump freighters, titan bridges - less small scale traffic thru stargateslow sec suffers because of risk/reward ratio being totally screwed. where 0.0 has less risk than low sec, yet more isk making stuff than in low sec.high sec being extremely low risk, yet very profitable with level 4 agents. balance that and you are half way solving the problems.killmails are nothing but a distraction from the real issues."
"you seem flustered. it appears you didnt read/comprehend what i said and you are not making sense. the bottom line is skex is correct in saying killmails provide the only objective measure of pvp skill. they also provide allot of other helpful information. im not sure what you mean by the fc gets the isk. i have never flown in a gang where the fc gets all the loot. but from what i understand about 50% of fit mods on a killed ship should drop. so no pvp in general is not a good way to make isk. but you are in general going to be better off isk wise, to the extent your gang is bigger than everyone elses. you dont actually doubt this do you?so if your intent is to blow up your enemies isk and save your own the best strategy is to blob. the above statement doesnt make any sense. how would a killmails ability to tell the whole story effect whether non blob pvp is the best way to demonstrate skill??? killmails dont tell the whole story and no one in this thread ever said they did. but by looking at rankings *and* other things such as how many are on each killmail what are they fighting, what fits are they flying in and other information we get *from* killmails you can get a decent idea if someone knows how to pvp. no doubt some people can endlessly play games with nothing on the line. but if there is something on the line, the game is always more exciting.im not just claiming lossmails are consequences of pvp im stating a fact. i wouldnt say giving people a loss mail to report is somehow what drives me to pvp. but trying to give more lossmails than i receive is something i certainly strive for. and certainly if there were no killmails i would quickly get tired of eve. not only do they give some more consequences to battles, and to some extent measure your success. but they put some check on blobbing, and lame tactics by at least helping identify when they are used. this is a *game* liang. every game is better if there is some method to measure your success. it helps people strive for whatever they want. you want golf without scorecards, and to tear down the scoreboards in football, baseball basketball and every other sport. why? because they do not perfectly measure skill at that sport. and keeping score might prevent *some* people from playing that sport. a single game does not perfectly measure a teams ability at a sport. nor does a single killmail or battle report based on killmails. but over time you can at least reach some conclusions about pilots skill.eve as they say is a sand box. people can decide what their goals are. if you want to make lots of isk, you can. and you can measure your success by your wallet. if you want to schmooze other players and run a big alliance, you can. and you can measure your success by the number of people in your alliance and the territory you own. if you want to be a good pvp pilot there is only one thing to measure your success  your killmail stream. no one says they are perfect but they are a lot better than nothing. you can tell if someone is just killing pve ships and industrials, if they are always outnumbering the other side, how they fit their ships, etc. they should be improved no doubt. i think ships that give boosts and repps to the killers should appear on killmails. this would make them even better but, of course, still not perfect. but doing away with them altogether is really just a bad idea."
"do you have any idea how long it has been since i've seen a real pirate? almost five years. i think veto still does legitimate piracy, but i don't even know that for a fact either.hint: piracy doesn't involve blowing the victim up (unless they don't pay the ransom or toll)... which means no killmail. killmails killed piracy."
"yes, purely because in large alliances ppl ninja on so many killmails when large fleets battles, assume they are epeen, when infact all they did was orbit and shoot.. wow uber pvper."
"yea i wanted this for a long time makes it nicer also the game, a bit like 3000ad ... a real crew on your ship, engineers, marines, officers, commanders, military, doctors, what ever all that is needed to run a real ship, you can hire them on stations and 1 has more options than the other and also you need the correct skills for that to get a better crew on your ship ... i think that's wayyyyy cooler and wayyyy better than just 1 person you as the only all managing crew, it gives an extra dimension to the game also, also what should be great is boarding ships to board a enemies ship you don't have to be able to fly them your specialty crew can do that for you for just a moment till you are at the station and dock, all those things would be great, hahah also what would be cool is the resources needed like food and water .... just like a station"
"if i can sexually harass my yeoman, just like i do in mass effect 2, then i fully support you for this reason alone.other than that, crews are so outdated :p"
"read the chronicles, every ship but frigs has a crew, but life is so cheap in new eden they're ignored with game mechanics.to make it easier on you, this capsule proves we still have crews all these lives fit to ruin"
"i was thinking about this same thing, but have where you can plan a normal, not podder character. you will have different skills you can learn and you can pilot ships but in a different way. you don't get all the bennies. but on other stuff you can get bennies like some of the markets."
"nah its not outdated, its a nice option i mean it does not mean you have to micromanage the ship there you have the crew for :) to make it even more nicer is to have a real bridge, i mean they are busy with dust now and also there you have a bridge on the command ship, so why not for us in eve, and some monitors like in dust to see what we see now just from the captains chair ... damn than it would even be nicer but i think that ccp is thinking more about the $$$$$ however i do think they are going to implement more things like this because of dust.i mean soon we are able to walk in the space stations and interact with each other that's already a step closer ..."
"i played sto for little while, got bored because in 3 1/2 months i was a vice and ran out of things to do. well it was some nice features like walking around your ship and walking on station plus planet side, i also like some of how you can control your ship little. but i don't think that they thought out their plan, i mean i watch star trek all my life and i don't member that many vice ads walking around.so i was happy to come back to eve. more to do plus if someone gets in your way or ****es on you you can pop them. (yes you can). but i know ccp has lots of stuff coming, but i have things i can do before they get here.so let ccp do their job, for they do listen to us, (and btw sto didn't really listen to it's players too much)"
"supported!relevant links: ships crews and (imho) freed slaves"
"@spiru: slaves forced to crew my ships? i like the way you think!"
"same here!"
"crews should get better at their jobs the longer they do them. then die when the ship dies. if i have a ship that survives a lot of confrontations, it should be better than a ship i just replaced."
"absolutely. this is a fantastic mechanic to add some weight to pvp activities. it will discourage (some) people from flagrantly throwing away their ships whilst still providing a benefit from actually engaging in legitimate pvp activities.note; i don't think ships crews should get anything more than a basic effectiveness boost from npc interactions... it should be limited to pvp and even then should be skewed in favor of attacking ships that fight back. this means ganking hulks, rookie cruisers and freighters won't be of much 'value' but hitting a roaming hac gang would result in a significant boost.ultimately i wouldn't want to see crews making the ship more than 10% effective in any particular direction so as to avoid solo pwnmobiles. also crews should not transfer with the hull - if you contract or sell the ship, you don't get the crew with it. this would simulate how the crew would learn to work well together (or not!) after becoming more experienced. sell the ship, you split up the crew."
"the all these lives are fit to ruin chronicle is pretty deep, having crew members would be pretty deep+1 in general, +2 if you can have erotic dancers as crew members, +3 if you can have both stated and you can change the name of the crew members & modify them"
"i like this idea, and have ever since i started the game. it was one of the things i talked to ccp about during my term on the csm, but they're afraid to give ships any more bonuses (no matter how slight) after rigs.my idea consists of an expansion to both ships and poses using pi. i originally wanted to remove all trade goods from the market with this idea, and it still may happen that way, but i don't want to elevate the proposal to unmanageable levels at this time.a basic write-up of my idea is here. i will continually update the linked document as time and creativity allow.for now, though, supported (and please edit your original post and click support if you do support this measure)."
"we are immortal posthumans, starship crews are little better than cattle compared to us.so, bad idea imho. spaceships have enough bonuses as is without introducing yet more hard to balance stuff.for all other rp purposes: ships larger than frigates still have a crew, so you can pretend to interact with them all you want./not supported"
"very much like these ideas.. tho i think ccp sees that itd add soo much complexity and balancing issues. its a balancing minefield im afraid to say.but as an academic discussion there's 1 thing id love to add for u to consider including. it would be for the crews to be consisting of 'trained' personnel for an added bonus.and the trained personnel to be an item swapped for an equal amount of normal crews + faction lp in an lp store.you can add slight bonuses to ships dependent on the race/corp lp store the crew are from.one example would be a rr amount bonus for ships fitted with sisters of eve crews.would also mean there's another income avenue for mission runners and an incentive for good mission runners corps to be linked to null sec alliances, helping hi-sec newer players network with null sec players.i do understand there'd be another balance issue with lp amount per say 5000 crew and amount of crew per ship type. amount of crew should be directly proportional to a ships average cost.:)"
"+1 we need this back, please!"
"ffs. the scrollable windows simply need to stop jumping to the top or bottom every time something changes. if i have it sorted by ship type and am locking vagabonds, please don't pop me to the top of the overview because someone showed up or died. the same for fleet. if i'm looking at wing 3, don't pop me up to the top because someone dropped or joined fleet. when i'm ratting and shooting bs, please don't scroll off them because 20 frigates just spawned in. that is highly annoying. i don't want to have to have a tab for every single possible thing i want to shoot at any given time. i'd end up with tabs across my entire screen.let me pin the overview to a certain thing."
"fast twitch speed, how good your vision quality, and relative processing speed of computers should be a small aspect in combat advantage . (outliers on the poor side of a standard deviation or too can be discounted somewhat )_thinking_ and responding relatively quickly is a fine metricits one thing for a quicker person to get the advantage to the degree they're faster.. its another thing where thats accentuated to the point where a split second speed difference or aging eyes results in many more seconds delay because of needing mutiple attempts"
"this bull**** just cost me a juicy killmail and 1x warp disrupt probe. fix it now ccp"
"supported, 100%. don't let them have structures that support/require sovereignty. i'd love to have this to make researching bps so much easier, and i'd be able to operate easier out in null if i had my own production slots i could hog."
"hell yes! and while your at it revamp it completely! it needs that badly yup i heard that too indeed ccp needs to htfu with many things balancing for example...."
"or at least have a poss (player own sub station)...1. have it where you can put up to three poss around the one moon (different players) so they can help each other out some.2. maybe they can only be set up in 0.4 or lest sec, or if you can let us have them in up to 0.6 sec.3. restrict what all can be done their. like you can repair and some r&d but no building. or just repair ships and store them.my thoughts on the subject,,,"
"i my self have my own pos(s) in my corp in null sec. to make sure your the only one who can enter just unselect the corp and the alliance use check box. make a personal password( do this first.) btw don't forget your password!.problem solved only you can get into your pos.the real problem is that to maintain your pos you need rights that could be a big no-no if a spy manages to get those rights.so corps are going to be very reluctant to hand those out to every tom and jerry.rather than a pos for yourself perhaps rights for only a single tower fuel tech and star base config management.still going to support this thread cause it's going in the right direction."
"and how do you propose you get around the swarm of npc corporation towers that will spring up everywhere?it is iffy enough as it is with the wardec system when trying to get rid of a tower, making them npc towers will be death-knell for many a honourable griefing corp.supported if and only if it is possible to exclude npc corporation employees from the proposed change."
"until one of your corp mates with pos roles decide they want in and change the settings."
"please read the entire post next time perhaps i was a bit unclear?"
"personal standing pos's should be in game.the current \"corp only pos\" is dumb imo."
"they could make it kinda like housing in other games. instead of a monthly rent fee, you could have a monthly fuel fee. they should make it so you need standings or whatever with whoever's space you are in (like to anchor a tower in highsec). and furthermore, it could be something that you could warp to in whatever system is your home, and it could be off grid, or maybe in a multi-layered instance type setup... i dunno, now i am just rambling. could create a whole market for personal pos stuff, for example, a personal refining array, or personal manufacturing thing, etc etc. of course restrictions could be 1 job at a time or something like that. anyways, still rambling... but stopping now."
"i'm sure you know about the tuck options for the character creator; but maybe you just want that certain jacket.. it's just for the pic's, and i can't recall complaints about the first art assets; so why are you bothering to complain now, when they're so much better?when ccp releases incarna, and you get to walk around in stations; perhaps, you'll have more options available. personally, i figure as long as you stick with the basics, it'll be enough; at least until the style of your jacket matters more than it does currently. i'm assuming it's the jacket, as their are only really 3 options: funny looking admiral's coat, funny looking motorcycle jacket; or a vest, in one of two optional colors. as a minmatar, i get lots of options with the vest. for some reason, the motorcycle jacket; seems to be the popular trend with the gallente. i presonally hate trends, myself, and generally stick with blue jeans and t-shirts; even going so far, as to avoid any and all printed clothing, striping, patching, and the like. bunch of nonsense, if you ask me."
"if i could upvote you i would.your third paragraph made this an absolutely fantastic post. well done."
"clearly you do not understand what i'm asking for. i'm complaining that all races don't have access to all art assets, and i want this to be changed."
"i expect it's coming. probably with full incarna release. possibly involving microtransactions."
"below is a list of issues with the new character creator that need to be addressed before it is fully released. these have come from both personal experience and from complaints from the sisi forums.the new character creator was implemented in the main stream client long before it was ready and thus is missing allot of clothing as well as the facial decorations that were available in the original character generator. inconsistencies with bloodline and racial appearance have yet to be resolved. there have been many requests to allow characters to select a new race and bloodline however neither the reselection of bloodline nor the fixes to appearances have been implemented.in all the character creator is not ready for the mainstream release and the only way to get cp to actually revoke the patch or to fix the creator is a full boycott of the new character system. until the proper clothing and facial decorations are implemented and until bloodline appearances are either restored or the ability to switch bloodlines is implemented i will not recreate my character and continue to play the game with a blank portrait. if you believe that the character creator has failed to capture your personality and failed to live up to the demands of the eve population than sign here and proudly display your blank character window in game. i have only posted the two major complaints if there is something i missed please add it with your post./signed"
"perhaps this was working as intended?and even if not, almost none of the clothing is all that evident in our character portraits, so why do you care so much? if you want to dress up dolls, i suggest you do just that. the lore and bloodlines are ccps to do with what they want. besides, most look pretty much the same if not very similar. this is merely a whine. perhaps you should play eve for the space combat, trading and manufacturing that it offers. you know, the prime reasons the game exists? i think it works, and looks just fine./not signed."
"1.0"
"tactically this would be a godsend.see the obvious fitings, where is he aligned to? are my drones there yet? which way did he warp out? is he pulling a crazy ivan or straight running?it would almst allow for slightly more skill coming into play for dogfights of the frigate variety.hell yes, pleasem"
"i support!"
"i would rather see only pilot name and ship type instead of icon which takes unnecessarily screen space. screen is already full enough without useless ship pictures."
"i can see this adding tons of lag to bad comps (perhaps an option to turn off, maybe even no pics at all), but what the hell, the lag cant get much worse."
"to those suspecting this will cause more lag:it won't. it's a client-side thing. essentially it'll slow down how fast your computer can render things, so for some people they might have to turn the texture or resolution down a notch, but generally it won't be too bad. in otherwords, theres nothing that has to go across the network for this.it's already rendering the object once out in space, so all it has to do is do it again in a certain frame, which already exists. from a programming perspective, this is almost as easy of a cut-paste job as it gets. the payoff for the work that goes into it will be well worth it.this idea has my full support and then some. a checkbox in options for portrait or 3d would be best solution."
"like"
"very much supported, but only so long as the feature can be turned off via the general settings under escape menu.it shouldn't induce too much lag, depending on factors outlined below, but there would be a pretty big performance hit dependent on how many ships you've locked which is capped to a max as far as i know.bear in mind the tech is there, we've all previewed ships from the show info menu whilst in space ourselves, and we've all \"looked at\" ships whilst in space.the question is how much information should be visible when having a dynamic lock preview, as this would affect combat and the amount of lag (and hit on performance)?i very much like the idea that the trajectory of the targeted ship relative to your ship should be the max. and that it shouldn't change if you move your view and zoom on your ship or any other ship that you're looking at. reasoning is to understand your trajectory relative to your enemies. this would not induce any lag as the dynamic preview would be of basic ship models.the question id love other peoples opinions on is...how much info should be visible?bearing in mind you can determine gun type, active or passive and buffer shield and armor setups from a true \"look at\" lock preview. that kind of info readily available can turn the tide of a fight.+1 btw :)"
"the only other thing id have to say about the preview is it should not have a fixed camera distance from the ship. it should always be set for each specific ship and locked like the default view on the preview feature in the show info window. otherwise locking say a mom or a titan would mean the camera would be inside the ship model... which would be useless and prompt a shower of abuse on forums. tho if ur in a fight with moms and titans... u really should be minimising potential lag and performance hits anyway!"
"give it the stats of the noctis and one high slot and make its align time that of a fast t1 cruiser and you got a reason to fly it over a iti 5"
"... just use the one from the russian client"
"but they would have to add a : for the ))))))) 's"
"support!"
"all the cool kids support their own threads.just to clarify, ccp have been developing their own font for some time now (at least a year), no doubt at great expense.it would be nice if some russian spacefriends could post if there's any conflicts/confusion, notably with the likes of the number 1, lower case l, capital i or upper case o and 0.edit: forgot to support"
"supported."
"it's what i already do at each of my exploration in low/null with my cloaky, even if i don't know if i'll ever return, i bookmark it just in case."
"no to that, unless someone invents windows in stations."
"supported. i have seen this problem with gates many times. one warps to zero and the game manages to land the pod 2,550m away from the gate. it is a tiny issue, but annoying.it is possibly a problem where the object's size is taken into account and then matters too little for a pod, and it ends up outside the desired radius.what it needs is likely not a larger radius, but a bug fix.you might also want to create a bug report."
"noctis salvage is nearly instantaneous.marauder tractor bonus doesn't make sense right now."
"well loot of good ideas here. right now flying marauder in missions is not as effective as faction bs and noctis. so what is it good for? its not realy meant to do pvp with marauders right now, so its a useless expensive ship thats takes a lot of skillpoints. marauders are t2 bs and should be good in my opinion. i see many people want to have them more pvp usable.i would realy love to see a second type of marauders meant to do pvp. why not? its time for a new t2 bs!"
"ccp leave marauders as is but add +1 turret (for kronos maybe +2 turrets )"
"7+2=?because out of 8 possible slots this would give you 9. adding a turret isn't the answer. almost every ship in eve barring a dreadnought or supercap is realistically capped at 1200dps, and even then you have to make massive sacrifices in tank and utility to push that number. this is a deliberate cap in order to put brakes on isk generation from ratting and prevent dps fit ships from overpowering logistics (they already overpower active tanks, generally speaking)marauders need to be rethought from the ground up.as for the poor kronos... the sin should have been the kronos and the kronos should have been the sin. some idiot got them the wrong way round."
"marauder's are not pvp ships for a lot of reasons, price isn't one of them else nobody would pvp in vindi's or machariels.i am in favor of an assault battleship though with a resist bonus instead of active rep bonus, but this is a different idea, for a different time."
"marauders just got 4 weapons each...what the kronos really needs are 50m<U+FFFD> more dronebandwide and dronebay to be able to bring 5 sentry drones with you. the core problem is simply dps output what makes it weak compared to other marauders. also a bit better rails(mostly tracking and a bit dps)."
"i've got mixed feelings about this. on one hand it would be easier to get around high-sec, one the other it could vary well mess up the economy for a while making life...interesting while everything settles down. i don't support this, but i'm not against it either."
"it's remarkable how terrible anubis xian's ideas are, even tho he's trying hardeve needs the exact opposite of yulai superhighways - separation of 4 empire territories with new 0.0 systems - in a grid pattern, so there's no major choke points"
"yes but should their be a toll on it? that way not just everyone uses it, it will be mostly for traders and such. hate to be cure but i hate to see eve become a kitty game like wow."
"i wouldn't say my ideas are terrible, just terribly received. i usually put a lot of thought into them, even when i know eve's forumbase will just troll it to death."
"i am not a fan of this idea, because it would break regional trade and further encourage market superhubs. furthermore, i'm not a fan of anything concord related. the concord systems are such a pain in the ass.-liang"
"i would think that, perhaps some sort of slingshot, mass based isk cost... fires you in a general direction, say rensward, or amarrward and you might even land in the right system, or you might not. and it would cost 1m to fire a frigate hull there, and 50m to fire a freighter there.i made those numbers up. if you don't like those numbers, pretend i put some you do like."
"a fee based supergate? that could be interesting. have one in each faction's capital system and have them all interconnected with each other."
"i admire the effort, and you got a few; but, lets try to remember lag issues. what do you think is going to happen, when you start cycling damage skins for every ship in a fleet battle? each adjustment to the damage skin, requires all possible viewers to see it; and requires those adjustments, as it is taking damage. why do you think they turned bombers into fighters?it's a nice idea, but more appropriate to a single player game; where only one person is looking at the ship, from a single perspective.edit:i should really cover the other bits.nebulae and cloud effects.. yeah they could use some work; but they're not really that important. i do have to comment, regarding wormhole life; it's shoddy, having all wormholes of a type, look identical. first pilot: \"oh look, another pulsar; awesome shield effects, eh!\"second pilot: \"look's exactly the same as the last one we were in mate.\"first pilot: \"right! makes 'em easy to identify, don't it?\"second pilot: \"yeah, but i'm sure that great blue pulsing star; blinking like it is, would do that too, wouldn't it?\"at least travelling across empire, or finding your way through null; you have some time, between seeing these again. in wormholes, its daily rhetoric.remodeling ship debris.. it's cool with the orca's and titans; but i'm not sure its needed elsewhere. they're too temporary, as it is; as has already been mentioned.hit spots, or whatever you called them.. this is cheesy, right along with damage skins. everybody i'm sure, can recall a game, or toy, that showed damage; where it was this repetitious skin, displaying the effect. those old hot wheels toys; where the side flipped, to a smashed in, sc****d up version. this was cool when we were three; but eventually, we recognize the repetition. those laser scorches are always going to be in the same place; and, they'll look the same as the last time they were there.i'm probably not the only person here; that'd get sick of that right quick. i'm happy to say, i'm content with smoke blowing out my tail; and the occaisional flames lighting up my stern."
"a suggestion of pure awesomeness. i have been flying the same came in fleet for months now (due in part to amazing logistics). with this i could fly a ship of scars and bruises from battle. it helps the emersion into an already rich world of space fiction.supported"
"they didn't turn bombers into fighters, they altered the graphic because the missile code is arguably too elaborate for the gameplay vov.i'm not familiar with the infrastructure nor the code that the eve devs write, however the lag issues are going to be there regardless. we've seen from recent devblogs that the biggest lag problems stem from client/server notifications, so the easiest way to implement this idea should arguably be to leverage the power of the client side. for the server end all you're looking at is the addition of another field with a 1-byte value ranging from 0-4 (or more) for each 'level' of damage skins. it would not need to be updated very often at all... so i disagree with you there. would it have some effect on lag? of course. but the effect would be negligible compared to the example you gave.really the onus here would be on the art team more than anyone. i disagree that it's appropriate to a single player game, and especially as eve is supposed to be more visually engaging than other mmorpg's. i'm well aware fleet fights degenerate into clicking on a name some dude calls out over teamspeak and then mashing f1 over and over, which is why they're boring as hell as far as gameplay goes. personally i'm there for the intelligent and engaging conversations in local :)this is not what i was referring to for that subsection. i was referring to the way the graphical effects for turrets always hit the same spot on the model regardless of whether it missed, wrecked or glanced off. this proposal would result in a missing shot being graphically represented as a complete miss, a glancing blow being represented as zinging off the shield/hull on a tangent and a hit/wrecking hit as a direct strike, or a strike on a 'sensitive' area of the model. it would also mean that in the case of artillery, you'd no longer be seeing that silly effect where the arty trails track with the target. the only weapon that should do this is a laser, due to a constant amount of damage applied over time.i hope that clarifies :)"
"so yeah, black ops are basically just mobile jump bridges right now.my suggestion1) give black ops ships a ship bay (like the carrier) but can only hold a very small number of covops, stealth bombers and/or recons.2) pilots in black ops ships (and pilots docked in black ops ships) do not appear in localthis makes them much more \"black ops\"ish. they can now actually get behind enemy lines and disrupt things. they can participate in really nasty traps. they can be used as (super expensive) but amazing scouts. (it also makes them kings of murdering bots, but i doubt anyone is going to use such an expensive ship for that.)preferably, this would also come with a numerical buff so they arent straight up worse than t1 battleships in a fight."
"eve does not need this.local should be nerfed the proper way, for all."
"no sorry. black ops are still in a battleship hull. this is like a mini cap ship.and local should be sov upgrade.good try tho"
"well, a good reason for their existence is that the ships i'm suggesting using have no t2 variants as of right now and need them. now i'm not against a different possible t2 variant for them and i'd like to hear some suggestions from people who might have those ideas.the ship i'm suggesting isn't an \"uber pwnmobile\" at all, its just a best in class ship and some ship has to be that. i'm not interested in creating any \"iwin button\" either. many of the t2 ship variants are progressions of lower class t2 ships. the hac is a higher class of ac and this would just be a higher class of fleet command, what's wrong with that? besides, my idea for a flagship is just a random idea to get the ball rolling. if you would like to present a better idea than mine, feel free but don't just come in and tell me i have no good idea and then not give one that's better.as for a t3 bs, that would be great and i'd love it but that's been discussed countless times and expense is always the killer. also, it does nothing to help use the current tier 3 bs models that need some faction or t2 love badly."
"i see your ideal, maybe if called something beside flagship. for when we are fleeting we need different types of support ships. even so that eve has lots of ships we can always have more..."
"the idea that all t2 ships have to fit a specific role is a huge pitfall ccp fell into, producing many worthless ships like electronic attack frigs and black ops bs, whose niches are so narrow no one bother to use them. there is nothing wrong with having a new normal ship with varying stats from other existing normal ships, leaving the player to fit them according to need. at least they'll see usage. all the roles are pretty much covered, including the narrow niches. trying to invent some even more pointless role for new ships instead of just producing normal useful new ships is a bad idea."
"the idea of just have a bigger and meaner ship is a 100 times worse. especially for the sake of wish to \"just have more ships\". for they will do nothing but obsolete previous ships. this is the way wow follows.the almost obligatory \"bigger cost\" proposal is naive. eve already proved many times that cost is a least important balancing factor."
"i can't count the number of times i've seen this idea float to the surface. i am disinclined to support it because i'm not a fan of ccp spinning their wheels on a ship that won't be used. i'd rather see them fixing things currently in eve.-liang"
"they're always going to be fixing things but that doesn't mean they shouldn't also work on new content. fixing doesn't bring in new customers and keep the game exciting, it only makes the game play better for the people who use the things that need fixing and half of those things people want fixed aren't actually broken, they just don't work the way some players want them to.take hybrids for example. they're in no way broken, but many players want them fixed. games have to maintain population and content growth to stay competitive and spending all your resources on fixing is a bad way of doing that. there will always be bugs and glitches and they will get fixed and more will arise when you change things and add new content. i for one don't really want to wait how ever many years it will take for ccp to track down and repair every last operational glitch in eve before we get new stuff.as for whether or not thew new ship will be used, that's your opinion.every ship has a bigger and meaner alternative except the titan and none of them made any of the rest obsolete. the ac and hac in are nothing more than bigger and meaner versions of frigates and cruisers with the offset being their pricing and skill training requirements and neither have made t1 frigates and cruisers obsolete. why is everyone so damned afraid of having more options available to them?! as long as its properly balanced, it will be a nice addition, no matter what it's role or what it's called and it beats having those very nice tier 3 bs models remain under used and undersold because of their poor operational abilities."
"bah... damn... i accidentally did that in another thread"
"if it can be done and not upset the engines and such, nice i'm for it, but i would like to hear more form ccp first before i voice my mind..."
"yo killer gandry, you're a cool dood and imma let you finish, but the aggression timer has been longer than 30 seconds for some time now. try it yourself and you'll see that it's a full minute."
"and what is a minute nowadays with an <U+FFFD>bertank and the availability of neutral reppers."
"agree - this is not something csm should discuss. its ccp's authority.its if like some local governor elected by local citizens, stated that from now on, people that i dont like cant participate in next election."
"opinions noted. thanks for the feedback. regardless, though, when a delegate requests a csm-related topic be added to the agenda for a vote, it gets added. opinions for or against and related details will shake out in the discussion during the meeting."
"shared sc accounts are against eula, so that's not it.maybe they just wanted a way of retiring old characters, since the skillpoint system is time-based, so this is a \"skill sink\" the same way repair costs are isk sinks?"
"cool story bro! :thumbs up:"
"post. with. your. main.what's confusing you here? just in case you edit your post later to change it, i'll link to eve search and point out that despite your trolling about not providing links, you prove that you really don't care about it and make several claims about threads while not providing links. the fact is that your trolling is pointless, the quotes are accurate. if they weren't, ank's legion of alt trolls, yourself included, would have pointed out that they were false. i'm not digging up links again just because you're trolling. lying and trolling, again. and using a predictable pattern of that ank's alt trolls did during the campaign. first claim that the truth is a slander and a smear against ank. then when the facts are proven beyond a shadow of a doubt, claim that they're being 'misinterpreted'. when it's clear that they're not, claim that they're out of context. so far the only 'context' you've attempted to show was also a bit of your trolling. again, trolling by lying in order to claim i've lied about anything. very meta. yes, you are lying and trolling. i never argued with any csm about the facts of the situation. which despite your trolling and lying now, was the substance of your original trolling and lying. -either you were trolling that disagreeing on subjective issues is \"delusional\"-or you were trolling that i was denying a csm member's eye-witness facts and here we see even more of your blatant trolling.you claim it's a \"lie\". did i, in fact, specifically say that i did in fact disagree on the political implications? yes. and you're lying while claiming that i said otherwise. again showing what that your argument is built on lies and trolling, and nothing else. you claim that i \"lie\" because i point out that you were lying and trolling, and my disagreement with a csm delegate was not over anything \"straight from the horse's mouth\" as you were lying and trolling about, but over predictions for future events. for which, of course, it's impossible to get a prediction \"straight from the horse's mouth\" unless you're talking to a deity. odd bit of trolling to claim that's a lie, though, as if \"no i didn't disagree on firsthand facts. yes we discussed the political implications\" can't both be true. to remind folks who may be confused by wind's lies, by the way, his actual claim was that \"apparently zero is incapable of believing anything other than his own delusions even when he gets it straight from the horsefs mouth.\"but the only thing i was disagreeing with any csm member about was predictions and potential consequences. wind, is a liar and a troll, and wants to pretend that disagreeing with subjective interpretations and predictions of the future is \"delusional\", and wants to pretend that when i disagreed on subjective interpretations and predictions, that it was really \"delusional\", and lied that i'd disagreed with anything \"straight from the horse's mouth\". when only facts, could even possibly qualify as a disagreement on things from the \"horse\". folks should check the relevant post to see the clear and obvious dishonesty and trolling, like trying to claim that disagreement on predictions of future events or interpretations indicate \"delusion\" and inability to accept facts.on the other hand ank, who evinced (or pretended to have) an actual delusion and mental illness by being unable to separate reality and fiction, her, he defends against the mean ol' facts."
"^ this, and bump, and support vectored in for intercept with coding at ccp. hopefully."
"opposed. highsec is carebear enough. who cares about logic, you play an immortal being who can send their consciousness from one clone to another halfway across the galaxy and who can singlehandedly pilot a ship kilometers long with the right training. insurance exists for whatever reason. blown up in war, blown up by concord, etc etc. eve is pretty unforgiving in most respects, insurance is an attempt to balance that out, there's really no need to change the system except to make people who want to make a career out of mining feel completely safe. last i checked, safety is not the point of the sandbox."
"how much more risk free do peopl want high sec to be? because in my 7 years in this game, i have never once even come close to getting killed in high sec since concorde was introduced. latly, unlss i am looking for a fight, its practically impossible to get killd in low sec even, and the only reason people manage to lose their pod is because of lag.insurance is what keeps t1 ships competative to t2 ships, it is important bcause it brings the cost of pvp down and tries to encourage it - clearly - all its doing is creating more carebears who afk haul and afk mine in high sec. high sec and concord was introduced to give new playes the space to learn the mechanics of the game, not a mechanic to hide and make money behind. . . clearly people either don't remember why these mechanics were introduced, or, are playing this game for the wrong reasons. so if insuance is removed, then also remove concord - so then we can have a proper player driven game rather then ai assisted security that people hide behind. i don't even suicide gank, and all i can hear is the wawa and the faceless bots calling for more security."
"why would concord pay you for killing you? if your police and insurance company are the same people and your car was totaled do to a police car ramming you cause you just committed a homicide, you would not get paid the insurance. note: this would only apply to high sec. low and null sec would be unaffected, due to concord not having killed you."
"/supportedsince this is obviously pretty low on ccp's to-do list, why not simply use the font from the russian ui for the english ui as well? i did the same thing after i saw a russian mate's screenshot. not only is the plain english text more readable, but imo also looks a lot nicer.what really scared me was the realization that learning proper russian will probably be faster than waiting for a fix"
"bump!"
"(they should rather make the generator have more options so you can make the new look closer to the old one)i do own a vherokior char and was also somewhat disappointed of a) missing the resembling hair style and b) the eyes looking quite different. however i still like the new look."
"+1. i want to have blod dripping from my fangs that i haven't got! o hang on that's next year sorry cant wait for wodmmog, ywah so hurry up already. can i vote with each of my alts? :) j/k"
"\"everybody was kung fu fighting..\" o yeah baby i want to change my bloodline to samurai o yeah, wait i already am"
"supported, all races should be balanced with respected to one another, as many calculations shows this isn't the case for gallente."
"and my large blaster spec v!"
"bump"
"either the ships or the turrets or both need a review."
"+1 for me!gals do suck and its annoying that most gal ships arent used, all that work designing and implementing a whole race and then nerfing it to the point thats its obsolete.all this coming from a caldari crosstrained to matari and amarr :)"
"do want :)"
"yep"
"hmmmmm? a better hyperion?ofc yes!"
"yes to this."
"lol...i still can't even make sense of that post. and its the only post from a csm in this thread."
"and since ccp seems dead-set against investing in things that the players consider a useful use of dev time (i.e., dear god fix fleet lag) i can only assume this is a resounding endorsement of something that ccp might realistically consider important enough for dev time.point 1: most males are heterosexual.point 2: most heterosexual males enjoy large breasts.point 3: most players of an online video game are male.point 4: most players of female characters are also male.point 5: most players of female characters are heterosexual males.point 6: most players of female characters would enjoy large breasts.tl/dr: boobie physics. do it."
"bumpish"
"hilariously irrelivant numbers and equations in the op.blasters do need lovin though."
"1.0"
"in addition to all the problems mentioned, there's another small but noticeable issue:hybrids damage type is worst for general pvp.a lot of pvp ships are t2/t3hybrid damage type is strongly resisted by gallente and caldari t2/t3, with weaker resists on minmatar and gallenteprojectiles have switchable damage types so they can always hit weak resists. that makes it very attractive for pvp in addition to all the tracking and range advantages.lasers are strongly resisted by minmatar t2/t3, weakly resisted by gallente/caldari, and no extra resists on amarr t2/t3naturally, lasers look more attractive than hybrid damage due to less overlap with t2 resists.in addition to that, majority of sub-battleship pvp ships are shield buffer tanks, which makes lasers more attractive than hybrids.so even when fighting t1 ships without special resists, you are more likely to encounter shield buffers, so you want em and thermal damage. both lasers and projectiles offer that. hybrids are weaker.this isn't a big thing, but it's worth about 10% damage to me, intuitively. meaning that if i have a choice between 1 ship with lasers and another identical ship with hybrids and 10% more damage, i'd seriously think about which to choose. and if both ships were identical, 1 dealt laser damage, other dealt hybrid damage - the choice would be lasers 99% of the time"
"you didnt account for the damage type spread on emp or the armor and hull portions of t1 shield buffer tanks (which are still a considerable amount of total ehp on these, especially on the bc level). in fact, cn antimatter is just as good rf emp against t1 shield buffers.lasers are much better against shields though, agree there.as far as general damage type goes, kin/therm is a great damage to deal, as it offers decent performance against shield and armor at the same time.there is a reason minmatar pilots regularly default to phased plasma (which is kin/therm) when facing unknown or mixed tank type hostile groups."
"i am aware that there are many cases where em is not preferred, besides the minmatar t2but as someone with lots of experience, i can see that the cases where em is preferred happen more often than when em is not desired. if i had to put a distribution percentage on it, i'd say it's about 65% in favor of em, 35% againstand as someone who flew minmatar on my main for last couple months, with about 200 kills worth, i found that the based combo of ammo is fusion and emp. i believe that resorting to phased plasma in pvp is for noobsanyway, i said that wasn't a big issue. it's a small one, about 10% worth."
"well, you believe wrong then. nothing worse than shooting the primary in a gang, or a solo target you attacked and doing fail damage because you assumed a wrong resist profile.in a solo engagement those 10 seconds to switch ammo or going on with the wrong damage type is going to cost you the fight.ofc there are those cases that are a complete giveaway, but these days even attacking a harbinger isnt automatically a case of 'alright lets load fusion'.emp or fusion for those fights where you are 110% sure what you are going to engage (i.e. they have guardians or scimitars with them, or its a drake), pp if you cant be sure, barrage if you want to kite.edit: and to be frank, using emp against any battlecruiser other than drake or cyclone these days is the true noobish move even if you assume its shield tanked. you lose almost nothing by going for pp instead, and the consequences if you guessed wrong is much less severe.and that is with triple cdfe standard shield buffers, before we even take into account the various cheapskates flying around with dual cdfe + em rigs, where using emp is actually worse than pp. or before the standard triple cdfe buffers overload their invul field in which case pp or emp makes no difference at all.anyway, tl;dr: kin/therm is a decent all around damage type, while it isnt specialized against any particular tanking style there is no situation apart from gallente/caldari t2 where it fails completely.now i wouldnt be opposed to increase em resistance on armor for bs by say 5% to shift the resist profiles there a bit more in favor of kin/therm when compared to em/therm, but in general i think there is nothing to knock about that damage type."
"the point is that blasters suck in more ways than onei believe blasters need 20% more damage - all blasters. that would be equivalent of a free damage mod. that would ensure that projectile and laser ships can't overturn that advantage by fitting 1 damage mod of their own. and it would make up for the bad tracking, bad optimal+falloff, hard fitting requirements, energy use, and damage type of blasters.but i'm pretty sure it would fall on death ears at ccp, as they are suffering from collective case of damage-phobia"
"1.0"
"support... some sizings are just fail!"
"bump"
"citation needed.finn proves yet again that he loves jump bridges and that he has no idea of what the words \"facts\" and \"troll\" mean through his continued posting and gratuitous use of the later term. protip: troll does not mean \"person who disagrees with finnagain's opinion\" and fact does not mean \"finnagain's opinion\"by the way, \"evidently 10's of thousands who do\"?. did you do a survey? do you have any, you know, data? a summary look through this thread would indicate quite the contrary unless you count every post by you as a different person. i would like to see the data sources you use. how many tens of thousands by the way? for someone that seems so concerned about clarity and specificity in language, you sure like to make **** up when it fits your agenda. btw props on the awesome attempt to establish complete bull**** as a fact. very sneaky.and the bit about \"done specifically to reshape player created politics\"? you do know how to read, right? i missed the part in the minutes where it is stated that it is their specific goal, but rather their projected results of such a move.and finally, so what?since eve started, mechanics have come and gone, sov is completely different than it was, there are now corps, alliances, how ships work has changed, etc etc etc. a lot of those changes occurred solely because the devs did not like how something that \"worked properly\" \"worked\". so is the game not a sandbox now? are you prevented from doing whatever you want?if there are no jump bridges would you be prevented from being friends with any other alliance, would ccp suddenly set everyone to red or some such? no.your argument is fallacious, and unsupported by anything beyond your opinion.eve changes. what happened to \"adapt or die\"? i've taken to ignoring you because you are the same as a broken record and it gets harder and harder to take you seriously between your wanton use of fallacies (while accusing others of it!), overwhelming hypocrisy, and classy and liberal use of the word \"troll\" but some of your things are just lol.10's of thousands of people agree with this post."
"jump bridge removal will be too much of a leap for the weak and inept, so that probably will never happen since they wont be able to live in 0.0 without their nanny ccp watching over them and making their life almost as safe as jita.but what i think is a good compromise is to place these bridges at celestial objects, maybe allow a few sentry guns to be anchored around them kinda like a star gate which can be in-capped like pos guns. this will create situations for great fights, and at the same time allow for safer travel than just using gates for however many jumps you pathetic souls think is too dangerous for you to move."
"i'm not particularly moved one way or the other by this proposal, though if you forced me to choose i would probably come down on the side of a nerf.that said i mostly wanted to address one of the main arguments that finnagain seems to keep coming back to, ie, that ccp interfering with player emergent behaviour sets a bad precedent and therefore removes the \"sandbox\". what is more, i can do so in one word: yulai.the highway nerf was ccp interfering with emergent behaviour that they didn't like, the fact that jita then rose as the major market hub is proof that the \"sandbox\" didn't fail in spite of this egregious attack on player choices."
"ccp need to fix real problems and don't even need to be thinking this is a problem.... so thanks for wasting your time talking bout irrelevant things during your meetings and focus on the real things that needs to be fixed... kkthxbyedown vote"
"so it's wrong that the designers of a game who intended that nullsec should be about awesome fleet battles between forces vying for control of valuable resource, would want to pull apart whatever game mechanics are in place that encourage nullsec to become owned by two huge alliances?those political arrangements are apparently turds in the sandbox from ccp's point of view. they want awesome fleet battles. the entire game's economy revolves around war and destruction. the current game mechanics for sovereignty don't push people towards war and destruction.when the player-created content sucks, the game creator must find ways to adjust the sandbox to help the players do better.there's more to this issue than just jbs, but jbs are part of the issue. i use jbs myself, they are very useful for avoiding combat you don't want to partake in, and very useful for bringing fights to where you do want them. the advantage they give in tactical terms has very little penalty apart from a few billion isk a month and a supply of fuel."
"nullsec is about that, right now. and if they want to make sure that nullsec is the way they want it, then they need to give up the idea of sandbox play. because otherwise it will be whatever the players want it to be. then as stated, ccp needs to abandon the pretense of running a sandbox game. maybe drop jove ships on any coalition that has more than 1 blue or whatever. otherwise players will create player-created content however they want. again, who gets to decide? 10's of thousands of people have decided that it doesn't suck, and they're playing it that way. and again that sets up quite a precedent; if ccp thinks your sandboxing wrong, they can take steps to stop you. not for exploits or hacks, just for creating the 'wrong' player-created content. no, it didn't target player-created politics. and there it was totally even-handed, everybody in empire had the same routes. it wasn't like those people in empire who'd cooperated well enough to achieve certain routes had those routes taken away. citations provided. stop trolling. try counting the number of people who play in alliances/coalitions that use jb's.then stop trolling. already discussed and you're ignoring what i've actually said in order to, go figure, troll. here's a thought... stop trolling."
"they're talking about getting rid of jump bridges, not chains of cyno alts. capital ships would still be able to get around just fine, with the inclusion of jump freighters for logistics. it would be the sub-capital ships that would be impeded; i.e., the people who are either new or have chosen not to train up for being part of a capital ship blob."
"both you and finn can read but only finn understands. do you really think that ccp will state it is our specific goal to break player created content? you can see and have stated but rather their projected results of such a move. now why do you think ccp made such a projection? come on man think!"
"fixed that one for you looking up the mortality statistics on dotlan the only time null regions even come close (close mind you, never exceeding) the empire regions is when blobs collide.moving bridges away from armed pos' may not be necessary, just de-fang the towers by making the bridge module consume most/all of fitting, they are probable now (was in patchnotes recently) so should be eay enough to find.doesn't address the problem of force projection though so would have to be part of a greater plan.@finn: the argument that making changes to jb's is somehow a \"gateway drug\" to ccp dictating in-game behaviour is, to put it mildly, flawed .. ccp changed wardec mechanics to stop privateers, they declared alliance hopping a no-no, they evicted capitals from high-sec etc. etc.your cry of \"the sky will fall!\" is many years too late i am afraid so move to the next item on your list of talking points"
"i can't stop laughing. i seriously can't figure out if you are a ******, an idiot, some kind of televangelist or an editor for fox news. you don't even meet the standad or coherency for your idiocy, but now you project your opinion over \"tens of thousands of people\" who are not aware of it and dont necessarily agree with you? in fact, most likely don't?(protip, plenty of jb users have posted in this thread for their removal, including me.)seriously, looooooool.but lets play your game, according to the qen newsletter, most people playing the game take years to go to null, or never do. therefore (using your own logic and brilliance), they don't like jump bridges!i believe the number of such people dwarfs the number of peoples in 0.0 alliances. so obviously democracy of people whose words have been made up to fit an agenda, says that bridges should go.how's it go again? stop trolling?btw never stop, you are an excellent poster and it makes for quite amusing reading, your brilliance has brightened my day and shows the level of discourse that can be expected by you. don't worry about providing any other facts, i now see how reliable you are and how you know the difference between \"fact\" and \"your opinion\" 10's of thousands of people agree with this message"
"the only reason my suggestion was to move them to a planet is that pos's would take a complete reworking if you want to make jb's more dangerous while they are at a pos. this way you can leave the pos mechanics unchanged except for the fact that the jb which is supposed to be at that pos is actually on a planet which the pos is linked to."
"i love you minigin"
"by ccp's own explicit statements, these changes are designed to alter the player-created content and allow small alliances to be independent, and to potentially fragment coalitions. it's not flawed, it's fact. and what's the next step when ccp can decide that a certain style of sandbox play is \"wrong\"? the only thing that safeguards anybody, then, becomes caprice and chance. privateers and capitals were both in highsec, highsec is not where player-created empires lie, that's in nullsec. highsec is specifically supposed to be where players interface with concord and the empires. yet again, stop trolling (oh, i know, now you're going to troll about how you keep trolling, and that earns a response telling you to stop trolling. boy, won't that be some great trolling?) yes, 10's of thousands of people play in alliances/coalitions that use them, and use them themselves. your trolling about people who haven't been to 0.0 and don't know how it works can safely be avoided as it's some pretty obvious trolling, as can your trolling about how eve is a \"democracy\". it's not. that's the whole point, the content is player-created, not voting-created. you craft and destroy empires by logging in and doing ****, not alt trolling the forums. rafia landras audeles:center for advanced studies from 2011.01.20 07:25 to this dayyeah... you've used jb's a lot in your whole six days of playing eve as an alt troll. post with your main, troll."
"1. show me where ccp explicitly says this is an attack on player created content (nb. jumpbridges are not player created they are an illthought-out inclusion by ccp a few patches ago.)2. prove to me that should they be interfeering, that it is a bad thing in most cases.3. prove to me that should they be interfeering, that it is a bad thing in this case."
"finn had the choice to join an alliance with politics that were created by the players. simply because he still has a choice to join an alliance after some of the open ended content created by the players has been closed by ccp is no argument at all.the jump bridges were given to us to use as we saw fit to create our open ended content. if the jump bridges are removed then that content is closed off by being destroyed. this one decision alone wouldnt suddenly stop eve from being a sandbox game but it does make you think am i really playing a sandbox game?"
"they are not going to are they? although is it obvious to everyone unless you are completely stupid.no one in this thread has suggested that the jump bridges themselves are player created. the content created with them is however. this is your opinion. read this thread. read this thread."
"the alliances in null sec rarely if ever are in favor of things that make the lives of those of us in high sec better, but i wish them no ill will or hardships. therefor, as this does not directly affect me, i won't come out on either side of the argument and leave more experienced heads to the matter at hand."
"for whatever reason it is, you and finnagain (im not even sure you are different people at this point) are refusing to see this from any other perspective than \"you just hate us you want us to suffer, thats the goal of this patch\".whereas we do not have specific statements from ccp saying \"hi we want all coalitions to blanket cascade\" we do have specific statements saying they want to \"encourage pvp in null sec\".if you could stop being paranoid for about half a second perhaps you would see the benefits this game will derive from these changes.furthermore ccp markets 0.0 as a dangerous environment \"where people can attack you with no consequences\" there are popup messages every time you jump into these systs should you not disable them saying how dangerous these systems are and how not lightly you should take them.that ccp accidentaly introduced a poor mechanic that ended up benefiting you does not mean they did not make a mistake introducing those changes (as they are now realising and saying). in fact nearly every terrible argument you have made can be easily applied to the patch when they first introduced jumpbridges.given ccp now realises the mistake they made, not only do i think they are entitled to undo the harm they have done to the game, but i feel as though they have a responcibility to the community.one of the big selling points of this game is that individuals can make a difference in the scope of the game, that choice due to the obseen buffs to coalitions have boiled down to \"join coalition a or join coalition b\" and that is about the sum of all change you will experiance.the newer manner of playing eve essentially means corps that focus on anything but numbers on a massive scale will have far less impact, and i do not believe ccp ever intended for such a thing nor should they allow this style of play to continue.let me state this again, just because it benefited you, does not mean it was intended by ccp for this style of play to develope nor does it mean a change away from this is unfair. if you are in 0.0 it should be because you are either driven to profit weighing in the risks or because you enjoy the dangerous elements of this game.that we have ridiculous means in 0.0 to avoid all the risks and make obseen profits has nothing to do with player driven content, these are issues to do with game ballance and design.you have no right to tell ccp that \"i want no risks i want lots of isk and you made a mistake and gave it to me unintentionally... now you have to stand by your decision\"be happy that you benefited from their mistakes for long enough. now its time for you to follow through with one of your favourite (and ironic) statements. \"time to adapt or die\".we surrvived the hardest times for small gang roamers, will you survive a tiny nerf to your favoured game play? i doubt it."
"here is your problem. you dont understand this is an alt but i am not finnagain no and to my best knowledge the changes to jump bridges havent been officialy proposed. if ccp did want that to happen they are not going to say that are they? im sure you are capable of such suggestions without even touching the jump bridge debate. you know it is possible that the game might benefit to a change in the manner jump bridges but thats not why i am posting. ok and first thing this is your opinion. did it benefit me? i dont think they made a mistake. ccp are not saying the jump bridges are a mistake they are however not happy with how they are being used. no. they are entitled to make amends but it is your opinion that they have caused harm. yes i agree. i am glad you are citing this. you are still yet to understand that ccp are undermining the scope of the game for what they feel is the better good. your opinion. you might be right but we the players decided this. they may have not intended this to happen but it has. your opinion"
"it seems intuitive to me that a strategy game with instant teleportation of units is going to be a bad one, in a way that it offers less value for developing strategies, and throws in large random factors - enemy of plans.i explained this view in couple posts long ago:"
"ah, so because they didn't interfere with null it doesn't count. ok.i obviously missed the post where it was stated they would only nerf jb for nc, oh wait, they want to do it for everyone, sounds pretty evenhanded to me.also, how does nerfing them take away your ability to be part of massive power blocs? it makes it harder sure, but the choice is still there."
"dps is fine for railguns. what i would recommend is either:a: doubling the falloff (or tracking speed) of rails.b: replacing some of the range bonus on ships with falloff or tracking speed bonuses.leave the dps alone. we understand that the low dps is for balance.thanks."
"no like autos you mean?yes and so blasters, or change t2 amo (rails blasters) to x1.45 instead of x0.45 twice? you can't seriously do that, you take some problem away and you put another in.give t2 ammo x1.35tracking speed (pull it out of my ass that number)andto active armor bonus add rr bonus andblastertubs get 5%speed bonus p/level + imun to armor rigg/mods drawbacksno \"we\" don't, just you. but someone's else idea above is fair enough, give t2's like 425mm 6m3 capacity instead of 2, and the bonus rof to 4% instead of 2 per skill level."
"can anyone identify what the railgun's main strengths and weaknesses supposed to be?and what are the strengths and weaknesses of artillery and beams?artillery have alpha. that's very clear. but how are beams supposed to be different from rails?"
"sad bunnies, but nothing is set in stone, ccp have said they have things planned and as a lot of wis stuff will be somewhat shady.....what we should be lobbying for are \"cosmetic surgery practices\" or \"image rejuvenation and enhancement stations\" in wis stations, basically a shop thats the character torso and head creation process with all body types types as purchasable options and priced accordingly.the process is based in its used environment and open to all regardless (bar standings) and has the potential for being a great isk sink.personally, i happy with me"
"go to journal and expand the listbox for ref type: you can see a \"dna moficiation fee\" listed.they could use that for us to pay isk for a bloodline change but only after we try making chars in diff bloodlines to see which one we want, same race, diff bloodline would surfice no?"
"chances are its going to be a plex for character portrait change/update. i am unsure if the modeling feature will be included but cant really harm any game mechanic in any way. plus its well documented in the eve novels that extensive visual augmentations happen."
"a friend of mine keeps asking me why i took the picture while my vherokoir character was blinking. i keep telling him that it's as big as they get, even after manipulating the musculature in both steps.supported."
"when i first found out there was no way but to look like i have down syndrome, i practically begged for at least the ability for verokhior to open their eyes, or give us the ability to change bloodline.that didn't work.i asked to break the arms of the person responsible for this so no more atrocities would be commited, to no avail...i'm not giving up."
"perhaps suggest to them that we can use plexs to purchase bags for our heads for waking in stations (kinda like valve charging for hats in tf2)"
"supported"
"or maybe it's just you and your lack of ability to make appealing characters. vherokiors are harder to make because you can barely customize the shape of their eyes, but that's no excuse, just deal with the constraints and make the best out of it."
"man, look at all these whining racists.asians in mah spaceships, yellow peril everywhere!!11!"
"race related orphanage tears. best tears."
"i support the unfortunate vherokior brothers and sisters .."
"as a vherokior, i find myself displeased with this topic; and think that, yes, there have been some inappropriate comments made here. csm delegates should know better. personally, i think my appearance is perfectly fine; and see yours, as being no less so.i also seem to recall, vherokior having similar character traits in the old editor; though, they might not perhap's, have been as noticeable there./not supported."
"even if you can manage to look fine - wouldn't hurt to re-do it a little: from wat i've seen it looks more like they can't lift their upper eyelids than asian. mostly because pupil is half-covered by default, which is stupid 'cause it only makes seeing stuff more difficuilt - can't imagine humans evolve this if they still rely on vision mostly."
"keeping the eyes open, is part sculpting brows, cheekbones, and eyes; and part making sure they stay open, in the portrait. it's not that bad really; try moving the brows around, and see how it affects the eye shape."
"i prefer squintz to looking like i'm going to evolve into an asgard."
"sorry, but it's not just the horrid case of their eyes being slits; they're ape-like ugly too in bone structure and facial feature choices, no matter how you slice it. with the launch of the highly-touted new character creator, people should not be forced to turn their characters away from the bloody camera just to stomach the whole process, but that's what i'm seeing. that, and butt-ugly vherokiors. some sort of race-change option is in order here, call it what you will (cosmetic surgery, witness protection, whatever). new eden's characters have implant surgery constantly, and every one is now forced to undergo more cosmetic surgery if they haven't already or shortly they will not even be able to log on in-game anymore. it's not that much of a stretch to offer a race change (which doesn't affect much of anything but looks these days anyway).i think ccp would then be shocked at the sudden plummet of the vherokior population in particular; maybe they just don't want to admit how bad it actually is.if avatars weren't important, they wouldn't be a part of the game in the first place, and the new character creator wouldn't even have been implemented here (okay, aside from the fact that ccp needs a giant beta pool to test world of darkness' features on, haha)."
"careful man, vietnam might hear ya."
"not shure why they didnt do some thing to make the way points visable since they changed stuff around, making them flash would be the way to go, you could see at a glance where they are at, and when one is coming up, nothing like realising you missed one 3 or 4 jumps after that fact.also, i used to keep my chat window in that area and just used the colered dots to see how i was progressing in my rout, being on the side of the screen that worked out great, but now having them accross changes that, i would like to see them placed back verticly along the edge.come on ccp, mark our way points so we can see them at a glance with out having to open up the dam star map. :-("
"i like them how they are right now, but by all means an optional vertical placement wouldnt hurt, along with the ability to move the \"location box\" and the \"autopilot box\" around on the screen.also waypoint highlighting would be great!op is supported"
"ccp should start by making commander and officer spawns in 0.0 be like sleepersat very least, have c3 difficulty, maybe c4 for officers"
"huge support for #3-#8.but i actually saw some guristas warp away the other day. is it actually happening already?"
"yes all of them or at least one of them randomly can do it. if they don't do it's a matter of ai level."
"they sometimes do it, but it is such a rare occasion. they need to try to run away every single time."
"that....doesnt fix anything. it just makes drone boats also the best ecm platforms."
"while the non-ecm drones are underpowered, there is a problem with all ewar drones in general. dps is very important in both pve and pvp, and by using them you lose dps. in return you get extra midslots to use, but there are no dps modules that go in midslots, except for things that affect effective dps like tracking computers and target painters. even if they were buffed i have a hard time believing people would actually use them, especially since they can be destroyed. the only time i've seen ecm drones used consistently is for things like the pilgrim, and again they are only used when you need to gtfo and when dps is not a concern."
"now that's a boost i could get behind! -liang"
"excellent points.i think this discussion is well on its way to shaping into a proposal that can be supported by 3 consecutive csms over two years during which time it will be completely ignored by ccp.how can we incorporate this into incarna? could ccp sell players tatoos of appropriately-balanced ewar drones for microplex? i think you should explore this angle more."
"chance-based stunlock is an intrinsically horrible and unbalanced idea, and the guy who first proposed it should have been fired on the spot."
"yeah!"
"i support this idea."
"1.0"
"i am looking for more supporters."
"ty for the message white i didnt relize , my bad"
"well, i'm not sure what i think about even more information available on the map, but a buff to miners would be a good thing. my buy orders need a buff."
"sounds good white. im in :)"
"i support this message."
"i was looking forward to the beta neocom. i definitely would like to see it activated with a quickness! the whole ui does indeed need a revamp/cleanup."
"no :|"
"it's a noble idea but i don't see how it could ever be less laggy than the request to be able to paint ones ships would be.2x500 people jumping in on each other, each ship with a slightly different look .. the amount of extra data that has to go back and forth is insane.i think ccp has said that they are looking at the corp/alliance logo as a tag on hulls (or that it would be cool or some such). question is if even such a small thing would not degrade performance unnecessarily in large scale conflicts."
"i can't help but feel that big fleet lag should not be the driving force in everything ccp does. if that's the case, just turn all the ships into sprites and be done with it. the fact is that more than 80% of eve residents never get into those large battles that go south to lagsville. its not fair to penalize them for the sake of something they have a 1 in 5 chance of being in maybe one time in their eve existence. now don't get me wrong, i've been in one of those big battles on sisi and it was awesome but it was also practically node death. i can't see what little lag this would bring making any noticeable impact in what was already 1 frame per 20 seconds. still, i imagine you could always have a button to disable those effects, the same as turret anims for the sake of making large battles go smoother."
"well problem is the nodes only have a certain amount of bandwidth, and when thats exceeded then u have a problem. yes ccp have a lot of nodes available and yes market hub systems have their own dedicated node. each other node hosts several systems.if you start asking tens of thousands of people to send and receive custom made skins for their ships, the amount of people using it in hisec will outstrip any and every available byte of bandwidth in all the nodes ccp has... meaning nodes will max out everywhere and start to melt.corp and alliance logo's on the other hand are stored client side. alliance logos have very very specific requirements and only appear after a major expansion because they have to be included in the patch. corp logos are built around a series of pre defined components, so implementing them would be fine too as theyre already client side.plus the art department has expressed that they dont want eve turning into a space version of second life, cause it looks effing apauling!"
"o god yes i always wanted to change teh texture at elast onmy ships and if we could place the turret were we want that would be amazing cause im ntired to see my baddon shooting from 1 saide or another .... why not 4 turret each side when target is in friont god damnit .... anyway i totally suport this idea and i really wish this can go trough and ccp could make lots of cash with this like sell ship textures for 1$? im sure youll make lost of cash with this guys so comon lets make this nice for both of us"
"at least allow us to remove pilots without standings from our overviews!"
"the overview was absolutely perfect pre-incursion, barring the occasional bug.i want it back immediately.fix your **** ccp."
"aye!!"
"ccp told me they meant to do this, i am not going to put up with it quietly.+1 supported. see my own rage thread.setting overview appearance was fine, though there were some issues with the overview filter (it needs the same ability to sort by priorities as the appearance menu).but, as of the incursion patch, they changed it. this is just something else altogether. this makes it completely impossible for a logistic pilot to have an overview that properly only includes fleets and blues, or for anyone to make an overview that only includes reds/wartargets."
"i support thisfailure to fix this issue will result in the mass ragequit of a near infinite number of accounts."
"yep, and i'll be one of them, specialy if it turns out this was on purpose, since up to this point in time i thought it was a bug, and thought it sucked that they wouldnt revert it since a fix seemed a bit more then they where planing on.if this was an intended change, then i just might be through with ccp, and there game, get fed up with devs who dont take there players in to account when they do stuff like this, one of the reasons i no longer play eq2. ill be playing the new star wars as soon as its released, one person leaivng wont affect things much at all, but if your not carfull ccp, your gona loos more then that."
"i made a bug report for this issue. i was told that it was by design, and i should post on the forums.also, edit your post and check support topic bro."
"funny...tomaso told me last night \"theyre telling me this should be fixed by tomorrows patch\"...which is something i find to be utter bs. thread needs moar support. don't make me get the orphanage in here :p"
"supported"
"yes!! bring in the ccp cold case team."
"didn't they allegedly create/repurpose some small team for things like this? i could have sworn i read that somewhere in the 30whatever pages of csm minutes, or maybe that \"small things\" thread that akita t(?) started...but this shouldn't just be one small team -- this should be a several teams, and a major part of their development efforts.not because vets are bored, or even just because most all pve content is years old at this point, but because it will make ccp oodles of money and make eve a popular, thriving place like it was before dominion.say what you will about world of warcraft, but blizzard knows how to make popular and successful games. a large part of that is keeping the playerbase engaged with timely and frequent balance changes and constantly revising and iterating on old content -- cataclysm was a total revamp of the original game levels 1-60, lich king started with a remake of naxx from classic, bc featured new starter zones, new content in the old world like dustwallow marsh... those guys are filthy rich and have ~10 million customers.what does ccp have? a shrinking, dissatisfied customer base with declining revenues and two unfinished games that won't be done for at least another year or more."
"wtb ccp iterative developer team. salary is commiserate with how happy you make the community. bonuses will be given on the basis of how much iteration a feature is given."
"removing aggression transfer for rring someone with a criminal countdown (global or not) is a bigger issue.it is still needed to prevent neutrals from repping people at war without the ability for the attacking party to retaliate on the helper.however, i hear ccp is working on a fix for the particular issue of people dropping from fleet in incursion, which would solve that issue."
"no it won't, if you are in fleet and are being repped, just shoot the nearest asteriod or object or yellow wreck to trigger concordokken."
"i'll reiterate. make them aggressors, and capable of being attacked; as this is the only sensible solution. this will also help wardec's, and both sides of the wardeccing process; in that, neutrals will be able to become involved without concord intervention. wars will cease to be small-scale griefing drama's; and become real engagements, with unpredictable elements. let's face it: right now, with maybe a few exceptions; the only real wars, happen in nullsec.this, would be good. it should also be applied to all ewar related forms of assistance; making these fair game, on both sides of the coin."
"has neutral you have nothing to do in their business, find or create your own fleet. if you are in fleet then you have nothing to worry or care about remote neutrals coming in, they have nothing to do in there so let them blow in silence?"
"obviously you've never been the logistics pilot when two pirate/fw fleets clash under the watchful eye of gate guns. i don't need a gcc or faction standings hits for repping flashy pilots.-lianged: also, i don't want any of the crap about my rr disabling when someone takes a gcc or whatever. but, i agree the topic should be addressed in some way."
"do not support.be more careful who you fly with. if you are driving around, and the passenger in your car shoots some guy on the street, the police will be after both of you."
"this rarely happens. jesuschristmotherofgodccpwtfareyouthinking?"
"aggression transfer is not the issue.people dropping fleet is not the issue.the issue is that people who are being remote repped (or remote anything) are able to make a decision to invoke concord without asking permission from the people they will get concorded.a solution might be to prevent people making that choice when they are being remote-anythinged. that is, where the warning dialog would normally pop up, just assume they said \"no\" and prevent that module being activated.this is entirely independent of the \"i rep my friend's tower, now his war targets can shoot me\" issue.the issue here, in a nutshell, is a reps b, b commits a criminal act against a, concord kills b and then a because a inherited bs criminal flag. since this is eve online, not \"the day the earth stood still online\", this kind of punishment for unintended criminal acts should not be able to happen."
"after looking at some various threads regarding bots, it seems that there is a general consesus that bots will prevail regardless of what is done. as whitehound put it \"they are a plague.\" and in the same way they will adapt to any countermeasures as long as there is $$ or just isk to be made. ratting and mining can be made different, but neither will be bot proof.but if we have to live with the bots (we do so already anyway), perhaps its time to exploit them back. an account could recieve a number of hours every month (week or day is too short of a time i think, weekends and vactions considered), that can be used on isk harvesting business like mining or ratting. this could be like 8-12 hours per day or so on average (so 240-360 hours per month). a normal player would have to play crazy much to fill this quota, i don't think its humanly possible to fill it, not even for someone between jobs. when this alotted time is up mining cycles would no longer give any ore, and rats don't give bounties nor do they drop loot. (edit: time spent docked should be subtracted for this, the idea is to manage the effective game time not just time spent logged into the game)the obvious way around it is to get more accounts, and thats the idea. people who bot will have to use 2-3 different accounts to get a full 24/7 farming operation running.this doesn't solve the bot problem (which is unsolvable) and ingame plex prices will probably rise. but it has two positive effects, ccps earns a bit more and the macroers earn a bit less. hurting the botters financially is the only way to go, its the only thing they care about and the only thing they can't solve with clever coding. players would only be hurt if they play so much that its clearly unhealthy and possibly dangerous to them. it could potentially spur a development for market trading bots, but since the economic damage done by this measure is moderate at best it will probably be better for them to stick with what they already got and just use more accounts."
"hithis is my first post on here but i find this an idea to take to ccp.0.4 security systems are a combat area and where cap ships can both be built and jumped in... but here is the prop... in some of them they have a hidden hi sec status... which you only are aware of when trying to put up a pos, you can't set up low sec structures in these hi security standing low sec systems... and i find that wrong... it is low sec in all reguards except in the above mentioned situation, maybe this could be changed so that they don't have that hidden security standing... which i can't see the reason for other than annoy ppl who wanna use these systems.thx for reading and i hope it ccp will see this issue and change it ;)"
"can you give an example of a system like this?"
"if you are talking about needing permissions which you can buy from the lp store. i thought this was never the case. there was a change in the 1.1 notes about this. try again and see if you still have problems and post the game supplied reason you could not set it up. we need more specifics before we can comment further."
"you would think it wouldn't matter what the true sec rating of the system was."
"are you talking about moon mining?-liang"
"i never understood why 0.4 is considered lo sec space but you can't do lo sec space stuff in it. there's probably a good reason. i just don't know it."
"the technical detail:the security status is a floating-point number, meaning, it has many more digits than just one after the point.for example the system obalyu has got a security status of 0.423576765115572. the value then is rounded to 0.4 for an easier reading.all systems from 0.350 to 0.449 count as 0.4-security systems.this also explains why one can set the auto-pilot threshold in 0.01-steps and not just in steps of 0.1, because of this hidden precision.the answer:a pos module will likely do a check against the raw floating-point number instead of the displayed rounded result, leading to the observed issue.___my advise, you may want to file a bug report only to make sure that it gets attention from more than one side. in any case, i support this, because it is one of the many little things ccp has not managed to straighten out in their code and it will always appear as nonsense to players."
"but then why not make the 'check' against the round(lo_sec_number) instead of the unedited float ?"
"ccp's bug hunters are all volunteers. my guess is that at least half of them are politics and arts students. you can point out a missing letter within a description and they will understand. point out that 4% is not the same as 5%, and you will find yourself in an endless argument with someone whose grasp of mathematics is not just weak but esoteric. sometimes these things then just do not get fixed."
"it is as whitehound says, and i support the issue myself ;)and yes it is with moon mining i have the problem, and near where i live we have 2 systems ;) toustain and ratillose.an easier way to change the prop is to change the req on the pos structure so that it works in 0.449 systems. could be an easier fix than changing all the systems."
"ok, 0.4 systems and the rules regarding pos's and structures is a bit confusing."
"it would be great if ccp took eve gate to the next level and created an app for the smartphones. currently it's being done by independent fans of eve who have ceased development and updates for the apps currently out there. the creators have given up on the apps for various reasons. not enough support from ccp, not enough time irl to update, cost to maintain too high, whatever.ccp should take advantage of this growing opportunity. aside from the occasional google advertisement, eve isn't really all that well known nor advertised in the mmo industry. i can't tell you how many people i've convinced to try the demo simply by showing the eve online dominion video on my iphone. wouldn't it be great to have an app that shows more details about the game and lets players interact with their characters? i think so.also, if it's in the realm of what's possible on smartphones, can we also get a ship spinning app? it doesn't have to be fancy or anything. just something to rotate around and show friends the ship i'm proud to fly with. oh and an eve jukebox too please."
"the only thing i'm in favor in changing about killmails is how all the killboards count kills.killboards award \"kill\" credit to everyone involved, instead of just the people who deal the killblow. when 3 different alliances participate in combat together, each one with its own killboard gets credit for the same kill.what this results in is that whenever alliance coalitions fight, they all seem to have positive kill ratio, even tho they are fighting each other and can't mathematically have positive ratios for everyone involved.that type of ***gotry i'm against. it makes killboards inaccurate in representing alliance combat prowess.claiming that killmails \"force\" people to fight a certain way is just stupid. that's like saying the \"threat of pvp\" is forcing people to stay in high sec."
"killmails are currently the only metric about the damage dealt and received in fights.removing them won't end blobbing, it will just remove the ability for people to see how they're doing in the fights, deprive the ability to estimate one's success or activity (useful tool for recruiting), it would also remove intelligence tools used to know standard fittings of your ennemies.i will oppose this motion if it ever gets to the table.actually, i favour extending killmails to pods as well so implants would show. this was raised twice (and will be raised again), so far it hasn't happened because of technical reasons, but i'll keep raising it.your solution to the \"blob\" problem is not one. i agree that small gangs should be encouraged (not at the expense of the ability of having huge fights if people are so inclined however). providing more incentives for small groups such as, for instance, smaller disruptive targets in sov fights, decreasing big blobs mobility by nerfing/removing jump bridges and other things along those lines are things i favour."
"gtfonot supported"
"exactly, however it's not just the risk factor. there needs to be a push/encouragement for more people to get into pvp zones. those who live in empire are often driven by the pathological fear that low sec and null sec mean instadeath for them no matter what they try which is just wrong. there needs to be a better way to introduce them to pvp not being a horrible thing. perhaps making the start systems a null sec system connected to empire but putting a very low player sp limit on the stargates so only newbs can screw around but this is quite an extreme idea. however there is of course the people who would never pvp and have no desire for it and that is to be expected, but i do believe there are people that would if introduced to it properly or in a fun way.on another note, low sec may never see an exciting rise in activity even if theres a rise in rewards until theres some way to \"control\" systems like null sec sov allows for alliances to do. whats the point if hostiles can just dock up in the same stations?"
"side note: if low sec offered same rewards as 0.0, i'd be there, roaming the regions. if others wouldn't take the opportunity, more good stuff for me."
"it isn't. if i want to get in some corp being sure they will look at i just have two problems to resolve:find some friends to rr/ecm/dps and gatecamp with me.orprobe missioners in high sec and blow them faster than you can take your pants offand so:i have an excellent killboard and super killmails, because this is what you look first if i apply isn't?.lets face it, you can put all the bad will you want in this matter but the fact is that this system is the best way to push people to farm killmails and any thing to get them goes.no matter the corp you have ben or you are i'm pretty sure the first thing you guys do after any \"fight\" is to lik your killmail on the corp/alliance/intell/private etc etc tchat.if you are realy loking for fights then you have wardecs in high sec, do them. in low sec, jump in your enemies systems and stop pussie games at gates and with mission boats (lol fake this one) and if that's not enough you can play with reds at 0.0. i'm pretty sure that if you search fight's you'll find them, but you don't, you search killmails and so you don't take any risk of be someone else killmail. you can try to convince yourself that it's the isk loss to the enemi and all the blah blah blah, you are the only one who is convinced that every one else is going to belive you, is that because your killboard is better than others here or mine?"
"yeah, its because you people are ****ing stupid and i don't have any patience to deal with you. i absolutely despise douchebag killmail *****s and ***gots waving their epeen about and trumpeting about their uber killmail history - and frankly that's all i'm seeing from you people.do you even pvp? this is the way things really work:- 50 guys get together and go on a roam- they're awesome and get 15 kills (total drop = ~50 mil) and 5 losses (~150m each)- the fc collects all the loot and promises to disperse the isk to the people who lost ships once everything has sold- best case scenario, you'll get ~10 mil for your 150 mil ship... but in reality you can kiss that isk goodbye because you ain't getting **** from the fc.no, if your goal is to make isk by pvping, then you need to be in a very small gang and be very successful. you solo the guy, you scoop the loot, you make it back to station, and you liquidate it. i've also set up \"loot cans\" in hostile space so i don't have to haul it to a station.the next conversation requires context:let's see - the chain of conversation is about killmails showing skill. i say that no killmail can ever show skill because it doesn't tell the whole story. for instance, you can't establish relative gang sizes from killmails. tbh its no surprise that such a statement wouldn't make sense to someone who pvps purely for the killmails.comments:- counter strike is one of the most played pvp games in history. there's nothing ever really on the line except winning and losing.- did you know that you don't get killmails for many kinds of pvp in eve? market pvp lets you risk more than dozens of fully faction fit faction battleships. you don't get anything except the satisfaction of having beat the other guy.i underlined the really interesting parts there. i agree that it's a game, and its nice of there's a way to measure your success. but that method of measurement doesn't have to be or need to be killmails. in fact, it would be much better if they were removed... because they measure failure more than success.ultimately, my question boils down to this: why do you feel you need validation of your pvp \"skill\"?-liang"
"this is not an important metric. hell, its broken on almost every single killmail and nobody even *****es.i agree, it wouldn't end blobbing. certainly not in sov warfare.there are ways to do this without providing killmails. aggregate kill/loss totals by ship class for example.also useful for being an epeen waving ***got. probably the biggest reason i despise killmails.and that's a fantastic reason to get rid of killmails. :)glad to know i won't be voting for you.if you gotta have killmails, might as well.good, good.-lianged: i should note that i don't feel we'll ever get rid of killmails... they're very deeply ingrained into the pvp culture of eve. too many people treat them as the validation of pvp prowess even though there are much better ways of going about it."
"name one?make it objective, measurable and meaningful in the context of eve."
"why are chribba, istvaan shogatsu, tank ceo, and sirmolle 'famous'? why was lord zap and ginger magician notorious? why is menod pentor well known even outside of rens? why are there still hundreds of players in eve who knew and respected golan trevize for his work in new and old cva? why is cyvok still... oh wait, score one for killmails. why do people troll my topics and posts just because i'm the one posting regardless of the content?if you need a killboard to validate yourself to others, you don't have anything special to contribute to the community and as such you should be forgotten and overlooked. i don't mind being nobody, i mean i change my main pretty much every 2 years... so obviously i don't care about having a name people remember. but killboards screw with that. you can't be a pvper without having a record on a killboard somewhere, and that annoys me. not because i care about how good or bad my record is, but because i don't want people to know how good (or not) i am. i just want to fight, but those fights are cheapened by killmails and those who pvp only to get them."
"reading comprehension practice it. my question wasn't to provide a way to show how someone could become famous or notorious. rather the request was to provide an objective measurable metric that is meaningful measure of pvp prowess in eve. there are thousands of people playing eve and a vanishingly small percentage of those will ever gain the level of notoriety as those on your little list there. just like a vanishing small number of people will ever be the next billionaire or blockbuster movie star in real life.how do you think an employer would react if you came in and said \"i don't think i should have to provide a resume, it's not an accurate reflection of my true skills and work ethic plus they can be faked so just take my word that i don't suck.\" probably wouldn't go over too well would it?well the same goes for killboards. since the vast majority of players will never become famous and corporations still need grunts they need a way to filter the decent prospects from the riff raff. and the only tool for doing that in an objective way is the killmail system. null sec alliances want to know if people are going to be disciplined enough not to screw up during major ops. pirate corps want to make sure that recruits aren't going to do stupid stuff that's going to result in their older members losing ships that shouldn't have been lost. mercenary corps rely on killmails to prove they are actually meeting the obligations of their contracts.there is a hell of a lot more built upon the killmail system than simply epeen stroking."
"fyi, it tends to work out pretty well when you give a lecture on their field and outline both the problems they're going to face and ways in which they can solve them. it also helps that places tend to have actual proficiency tests and don't just look at your resume. furthermore, i wouldn't really want to work for a company where your resume played a more important role than filtering you through the hr department.no, there really isn't.-liang"
"i would be very much in favor of aggregate kill statistics that were available via the api.-liang"
"well since killmails aren't... what do you propose we use when they are neutered?things are not always as they seem and letting killboards run your standards methodology is probably why i've never heard of you nor your corp before this thread.even so, you can't always be sure you aren't missing something important. maybe the candidate is the type who never posts killmails... what does that do to your methodology?in my experience, people will read killmails any way they want and the only ones who actually care about killboards are the players who care about killboards anyway. i'd say that the best pvpers probably never use a killboard... why would they?killboards can't tell you that.killboards can't tell you that.there are plenty of other methods, methods that might even be more impressive.nope, not really."
"good ****ing luck getting in the door to give your little lecture. yes there is. i just described several. how would a merc company show their activity to an employer with out the killmails to document it? how is the average recruiter supposed to know if a potential recruit has any actual pvp experience?"
"i don't need luck, considering i did it - and got the job. i also notice you neglected the rest of the point. for a more eve based metric: my corp kicked someone's ass a few days back. we now have a standing invite to their alliance. zomg.maybe by actually flying with them for a few days. maybe by talking to them for a few minutes. just maybe.-liang"
"the \"flying with them\" is the job interview, their killboard record is their resume.when you apply for a job, you usually require both, a lousy killboard record is a bad resume and won't get you invited to an interview. the killboard is the first filter, if anyone could apply join our corp and fly with us to test them and no records existed, we would never get time for anything else than recruitment and training.the \"flying with them\" part is more about personality and personal kompetence, how well do the guy fit into the group, the other part are the \"facts\" (as accurate as they can get, since faked/forged resume are quite common).i simply do not believe that the removal of killmails would provide any tangible benefit, and many corps use those boards as a vital tool in their recruitment process. incidently i looked you up, nice record, tells me that you're a competent pilot... :) i might want to invite you for an interview."
"absolute nonsense from the op. people blob because a) they can, and b) there's safety in numbers. people don't like losing isk, ships or face, and killmails have nothing to do with this."
"how can they lose face if there are no killmails?"
"oh, i dunno, maybe people get embarrassed having to warp out in a pod. or maybe the victors smack in local?i know that your point is that publication of losses via killmails enhances the loss of face. and it's not an argument without merit. but it's still just one of many contributory factors. perceived loss of face, and the potential loss of face, isk and time will still be the dominant factors.if you want to reduce blobbing, as your op suggests, then you need to increase deployment and fleet form-up times, reduce the ease of dissemination of intel and to spread people out in space. this could be achieved by limiting/removing jump bridges, removing local as an infallible instant intelligence source and dispersing pve rewards away from single systems (nerfing upgraded systems and sanctums?). blobs will then take longer to form, react and move."
"so you're saying that you just walked in off the street and the hiring manager gave you the time of the day to give your little presentation? no you provided a resume that indicated you might actually have a clue what you were talking which got you the interview where you got to expound on your expertise.without that resume to get you through the hr screening process you'd not have gotten the opportunity to give your little spiel. a killboard serves the same function as a resume it gets your foot in the door. you still have to sell yourself. and how do you think they figured out you were worth a damn? probably based on your killboard performance against them. like the tusker said no one claims that a killboard is the only thing one should use to judge a characters capabilities. just like no one is going to hire someone strictly on them having a good resume. however if a recruiter has to fill 3 reqs and has 100 applicants interested he's not going to try to individually interview all 100. he's going to use some filter to reduce that number to a manageable level. if i'm recruiting for a pvp corp and the ceo wants to add 2 bodies and my compensation is based on getting them quality apps and i've got 6 guys with good killboard stats and 10 with crapy or nonexistent i'm not going to be wasting my time with the 10. sure i might be missing out on the alt of some utter bad ass but the odds are that i'd just be wasting my valuable time that could be used doing something else. further it cuts both ways. i'm currently in the process of looking for a corporation. and while the recruiters of the corps i'm talking to have judged me on my killboard i also judge them on theirs. how active are they? how successful. do they tend to kill more than they lose (and as noted earlier the way killmails work it's particularly telling when the reverse is true) do they tend to be blobby or are most of their engagements relatively small. where do they operate who are their primary enemies. i've set certain criteria for the corps i'm looking at. primarily that they have more kills than i do but also that they are relatively active.just talking to them isn't sufficient, everyone always tries to put the best spin on their own stories. everyone is extremely active and into small gang pvp and are fighting a bunch of blobbing tards if you ask them and their enemies will refute those claims with their own spin. are my criteria potentially keeping me from joining some up and coming corp? possibly but the odds are low plus i'm looking for something rather specific at this point so killboards give me a good read on whether a potential corp has what i'm interested in.of course the killboards aren't the end of the process. the good corps will have an interview and trail process where they'll judge whether i'm a good fit for their organization and i'll return the favor.but it all starts with that objective measure as a jumping off point. the alternative would be far more time consuming and likely far less effective. (rl corporations use resume's and other filters for a reason after all if they weren't effective they wouldn't be used)"
"ok this thread has actually reached the point where the final posters are arguing the best way to make isk in pvp is to solo. i'm no longer going to continue arguing there.as far as adding pod kills, i think thats a bad idea. it would indeed accentuate the problems with killmails without much in the way of good.remember a good game has at least 2 things. 1) a challenge that requires skill and 2) consequences. adding killmails for pods just adds consequences to something that requires no skill. its a bad idea to put more emphasis on something that requires no skill.it would also put an emphasis on killing pods which would be a disincentive to newer players who need those attribute implants to help catch up with older players."
"alright, since we are getting the point where any new points we bring up aren't really having anything to do with the premise of the mandate, let's discuss neutering killmail negatives:no longer show destroyed items in the killmail. want to know the fit, use some brainpower and figure it out from the loot.only add the top 4 damage dealers (adjusted for ship class, so frigs have a fair shake at being on it), top ew user (not sure how to really determine this, most time spent ewing the target i suppose, including tackling), and the person scoring the killing blow. yes, that means nobody else would get any credit for participating, but there would be a total for number of opponents. period.pod killmails removed entirely. unless we want to make those the only killmails.that would be interesting, no more ship killmails without a podkill?"
"oh look more bad idea's.what difference does it make whether dropped/destroyed items are differentiated. honestly i don't really care save that it seems that it would be developer resources wasted on a pointless change.limiting those shown on killmails to the top 4 would be a horrible idea. then we wouldn't be able to tell who the blobbers are. also damage reports in killmails are often less than 100% accurate particularly on ships that are killed really fast. pod killmails should remain unchanged. most people who fly in places were pods die regularly aren't sporting expensive implants unless they are cap pilots or just rolling in money anyway so who cares? i don't see the point in removing them either. not to mention the small matter that it would harm the operations of my former corp (rvb) in that the no podding rule would become unenforceable. once again the only real improvement i could see in the killmail system would be for ccp to host an official one so we could do away with most of the ambiguity created by fake killmails. oh and it would be nice if the bugs with damage reporting could be corrected as well."
"so reading comprehension is only for other people?"
"first off let me introduce myself, i'm a pirate/lowsec pvper and this is my main account.from what i gather in the original post i'm ruining the game because i take a certain amount of pride in my killboard stats. even though i have pride in my stats i still take time to ransom when and if possible, by the way, ransoms aren't verifiable so you will just have to take my word on it. also if i get a chance to get a good fight i usually take it. but that must be a lie, because if i take pride in my stats then it's not possible for me to actually do these things.the sarcasm was intendedon to the good stuff, killmails cause blobs - i have a few thoughts on what also causes blobs1. killmails don't cause blobs - friends cause blobs, let me explain, this is a massively multiplayer online game, people are encourage to join player run corps and fly with friends/corpmates, now i don't know about you but i enjoy flying with my e-friends. the more friends you have the more people in gangs, and what are you supposed to do when you find a lone battlecruiser ratting in a belt, tell them sorry, you can't engage this guy because it wouldn't be fair.2. e-war, these days if you have a small gang without e-war and run into a equal sized gang that has lots of e-war (not as uncommon as you may think) then you don't stand much of a chance, even though you may have even numbers, so you have two options, bring more e-war or bigger numbers.3. logistics, see e-war4. bait, if you find something juicy in a lowsec belt people assume that it's got backup waiting to pounce, therefore you assemble a greater force to combat said backup, and on the ofchance that it's not bait are you going to tell the rest of the fleet \"sorry, it's not bait so you can't shoot it\"all of these come from my extensive lowsec experience, killmails could very well be the entire cause of blobbing in 0.0 and highsec for all i know.those are just my opinions, not fact as the op implies his statements are. for those of you that think you would never get into corps/alliances based on your killboard stats might i suggest that you are trying to get into the wrong corp/alliance. any corp thats worth joining (my opinion again) doesn't base entry solely on killboard stats, and would suggest where to get some training before you are accepted, or even train you then selfs. and why would you even want to be in a corp/alliance that places such and emphasis on killboard statsas far as hotdropping supercaps, if you had/could afford one and were stuck in it would you really want to just wait for even/fair fights, or would you want to kill everything you could because you can, i know where i stand on that, however i'm not supporting hotdropping everything, but i understand why i happens and it isn't only because of killmails.i'm a little confused about something you have been been saying about the accuracy of kill boardsyou say are only in pvp for the good fights, and not killmails therefore you don't post killmails.you also suggest that the majority of people are killmail *****swith that said killboards will not be accurate about your stats (i'm not saying they are)you have suggested that killmail *****s are very worried about there losses, so would it be fair to assume that most post all kills and losses.if that is the case then your killboard stats should be more accurate then not, unless you are killing tons of carebears that don't post killmails.i'm sorry i don't play the game the way you have envisioned"
"no think this through. how do we know when someone is a blobber? because they end up with an endless history of kills where they are one of 50 others on the killmails. if those kills aren't counted on their stats then we never see them. also many corporations track participation though killmail activities.further why shouldn't the guy get credit for the aid he gave in killing an enemy ship whether that be from actual damage dealt out or keeping a point on it (without which the kill would never have happened anyway. and read your bit about crediting ecm to some extend but how do you know which one was most important to the kill happening or even if only one was important?which point was the most important to a kill the initial that resulted the target being caught in the first place? the one in the middle that kept him from getting away at a critical moment or the one at the end that kept him there to finally die. the answer is all of them. the problem i think is that you are focusing too much on individual killmails while the true value of the killmail system is only realized when one looks at a large sampling and at a larger picture. consider things that can be gleaned from a killboard beyond k/d ratio.if i see a pilot with 1000+ kills but less than 100 losses i don't automatically see a great pvper. i see someone who is generally risk adverse and very good at picking fights. particularly if the bulk of those kills are either against weaker opponents or in blobs.on the other hand if i see someone with 500 kills verse 400 losses but the majority of their kills were against even or superior odds then i see a pilot who is good and willing to take risks. take a look at someone like lady spank's killboard he/she/it's k'd ratio is relatively low but their fights are mostly solo against superior or even odds as such i'm going to view that pilot as generally more dangerous than someone with far more kills but in more blobby/ganky circumstances.even someone like your alt/main anubis for all the teasing i did his killboard really doesn't have enough activity to draw any conclusion of competence from. 60 something total engagements just isn't a large enough sample size to say ****. at best it's an alt who had some bad luck at worse it's just the kb of a pvp noob. killmails and the associated killboards are just tools like any tool they can be used effectively or wrongly. a hammer works very well for driving a nail into a board when used properly it can also seriously damage the piece you are working on if you just bang on it wildly. this doesn't mean that there is anything wrong a hammer just that the user sucks and needs to learn how to use it properly."
"uh, a noob's few suggestions here.1) if killmails are to still be in the game, there needs be an official killboard.from what it looks from my perspective, ccp did not foresee the killboard phenomenon when they implemented killmails, it just came as a natural side-effect they hadn't predicted.if this was something ccp were aware of, i'm sure they would've come up with a more elegant solution for killtracking.it's easy to forget that ccp created killmails, but the community created the killboards, so if you don't like the idea behind killboards, you can only blame the community.what you can do, however, is ask ccp to redesign the way killmails work, and possibly implement their own killboard to fix potential issues with the unofficial records, and that's what i will do now.2) most of the criticism aimed towards killboards seems to be the fact that they encourage blobs and picking fights only where you have a huge advantage.this tactic is great if your main goal is to destroy isk, and if so, you shouldn't change this tactic.however, if you're looking to have an impressive killboard record, this is a sad way of achieving it.so i propose: combat pointsi would like to see a killboard organized more like the fw boards' victory points, but where points are rewarded based on your odds in a fight.the points the destroyed enemy targets are worth are divided among your fleet in a fair fashion.that way, a blob destroying a small fleet of flimsy ships would result in almost no combat points for the individual members of the blob, however, a small fleet overcoming a disadvantage and destroying a larger fleet results in a good amount of points for the pilots.that way, pilots who claim to be true pirates, aiming only to destroy isk, can travel in gangs picking easy targets, but they will be rewarded with only a minimum of combat points.those who want to risk traveling in a smaller pack and picking more even fights, will not only destroy the isk, but also gain a fair amount of combat points and climb the board.with this, you could have a daily and weekly top list for pilots in your corporation and overall.oh, and, if this is implemented, keep killmails for show off if you did a particularly impressive kill and want to share it with others.i'm sure many seasoned pvp'ers will disagree with me here, but this is my honest opinion, and being new to pvp, i'm not biased either way.-zijal"
"i support the idea of official eve killboard.as long as it's setup in such a way that it is mathematically impossible for alliance coalitions that fight each other to have positive kill ratios. if somebody is winning, somebody has to lose."
"well at least youre changing over from thinking it would be good to do away with killmails to reforming them. but i think youre going in the wrong direction. killmails need to document *more* information not less.if 8 t1 frigates fight a battlecruiser is that a blob? no not at all, its likely a good fight and some gutsy t1 frigate pilots. but if they actually kill the bc then what none of them get on the killmail except 4 who did the most damage? and anyone looking at the killmail might think the other 4 ships were scorpions? this is not an improvement.first accept that killmails are not going to be perfect. but then i think there are some very clear things we can do to improve them. 1) if a ship is providing reps to an attacking ship that is on the killmail the repper should be on the killmail too! eve already logs the repper as someone the victim could shoot so the mechanic must be close to there anyway. plus they will likely make some changes to the repper mechanic in light of high sec griefing during incursions anyway. i hope they fix a bunch of the problems that exist with logistics.2) if an attacker is receiving gang boosts from another ship that boosting ship should appear on the killmail. i dont know but from looking at a certain top ranked pilot i think both of these shortcomings are being gamed. i dont necessarily think he is intending to get a high ranking from this behavior but whatever. its still stupid that you have a logistics or a t3 helping you get kills in a t1 frigate and the killmails fail to mention this."
"even if they remain, i think fitting information needs to be removed entirely from them, or every participants fits need to be on them. i much prefer the 'no intel' option though.register pilot names, pilot ships, pilot corp/alliance, pilot weapons used to kill the ship (all offensive modules and drones), any rr modules or drones used, and any ganglink effects."
"to me, it really comes down to what you're up to. if you've got 50 guys roaming through an area of space where you know nobody is going to be able to challenge you, and you've got half your fleet ****ing over the last 50v2... well then you've got a problem. if you're out looking for a fight and the 5 of you run across one guy? not so much of a problem.as to ewar and logistics causing blobs: no. that's simply differing gang compositions. it's totally possible to have too much or too little ewar/logistics on the field, and it's a natural thing for you to lose to a gang that has better gang composition than you do.ok...which is true...and they won't be - not only about my stats, but about everyone else's too. they don't tell the whole story even if they get submitted.no, they tend not to post losses.or if you're killing pvpers who don't post losses.funny - it seems that i don't play it as you've envisioned either.-liang"
"zijalit would be nice if they could do what you propose. but how do you know when a battle ends and begins? some battles happen over time with ships warping in throughout the fight. right now a problem with killmails is a session timer. i might be able to burn my bc back to a gate through a gate camp in 2% armor only to be caught on the other side by a ceptor and a cruiser. killmail shows i was killed by only the ceptor and cruiser. (the session timer made it into a new battle) like i said its not perfect and there seems no easy fix. although the 2 ideas i posted above would be pretty easy. but then again maybe ccp should start working on the harder stuff and really make killmails better. i would rather they did this instead of barbie dress up. why not just request that they put some real resources to make killmails very good.i dont mind that the killboards are community run. the diversity is good. many killboards like the eve-kill killboard do reward blobbing much more than battleclinic or eve arena. these later two killboards really do pretty much as good of a job as you can with the limited information you get from a killmail. unless and until the killmails are improved the killboard rankings wont get much better than these two."
"...... are you ****ing serious? 8 t1 frigates will ****ing murder a bc.-liang"
"i disagree with this because it would ruin my ability to thumb my nose at killmail *****s and provides free intel to people that i would rather not have it.-liang"
"yeh, my suggestion isn't all thought through, but one solution to the problem you point out here, could be that one could let the reward for destroying a damaged ship be percent-wise reduced by the damage the ship has suffered compared to it's ehp.as for deciding when combat starts and ends, it's a bit trickier, and requires some more thinking."
"if fact there should killmails about implants loses and if capsuller had up-to-date clone"
"fine, let there be an option to choose who'll be able to see your statistics then."
"not if that's an ac hurricane. sure the fight could go either way depending on numerous factors. but if both sides got balls, it can make for a good fight.i can easily see how the fight can end up with 4 frigs dead and others running away"
"i dunno - the cane is likely to have a pair of neuts, but it almost certainly isn't going to have web+scram and its drones are gonna get instanuked. i'd say the odds are firmly stacked in favor of the 8 frigs.-liang"
"first of all, cane would have 1 neut, not 2.second, if the cane has neither web nor scram, then there'd be no point engaging. but if either is present, it will be enough against most t1 frigs.if those were t2 frigs, then they'd be too hard to hit and do more damage. 8 inties would win in most cases. but t1 frigs really not that hard to hit with medium ac"
"comments:- almost all canes these days are ac canes with 2 neuts and a shield tank. i don't have any idea what fit you are thinking this cane has.- the frigs were the aggressors in this position. they decide if they're even going to engage. they absolutely control and shape the battlefield.- i agree that roflket condors using with 5000 sp using orbit will die, but 8 competent t1 frig pilots will absolutely **** a competent lone t1 bc pilot.-liang"
"so based on the responce i have gotten on this topic here are the basic area's as far as i can tell where most people agree are.1)sitting ducks: destroyers are too big of a target without the ability to either mount a good tank or enough speed to evade fire from cruisers and other larger ships. a)so we would like to see slightly smaller size ship size/signature. b) slight increase in speed and better manueverability2)weak fittings: destroyers are supposed to be anti frigate ships but have such poorly configured mid and low slot arrangements that they are unable to mount effective tanks and have tackle. a)increase mid and low slots to a minimum of three and a maximum of 6. (or an increase of 2 slots to both mid andlow slots for each ship respectively)3) role bonuses: as anti frigate ships the destroyer is lacking one critically neccessary bonus. \"tracking\" so lets see a 5-10% bonus in weapon tracking per level of destroyer skill.optional stuff that is optional since opinions on these differ quite a bit.a) drone bays: it would be nice to see destroyers have more in the way of drone bays we can live without it if we must.b) 1 or two more missle slots for caldari destroyer but like the drones issue we can also live without it.c)it may be neccessary to tweek the powergrid and cpu for the destroyers due to the increased mid and low slots.i removed the part about increasing the structure, armor, and shielding of the destroyers. while i would still like to see some improvement in this area but the additional mid and low slots would be enought to allow better tanking on destroyers.so is this something we can all get behind?"
"destroyers always seemed to be filler ships with no real purpose. new players can't use them effectively and vets don't need them at all.so what should be done? make them to frigates what battlecruisers are to cruisers? maybe."
"they just need to be adjusted so that veterans would actually consider using them for their designated role."
"thrasher"
"i think the problem is, where ccp is concerned, is to make 4 dessies that arent basically the same ship in different models, so the idea i think should be that each of them should have bonuses to different ways of keeping frigs down, but make sure that no 1 type dominates at taking out frigs.if u cant lock fast enough u cant push dpsif u cant track fast enough u cant push dpsif u cant get close enough u cant push dpsfrom those 3 'if' statements u can make 4 different flavours that compliment each other without 1 being overly dominant.the problem is to cap their abilities to not challenge combat and force recons."
"i think there is plenty of variety at the sub cruiser level compared to the cruiser and up level. lots of variety of ships being flown. if you lower the sig radius on dessies then how is this much different than a t2 frigate? it seems this would make the game less diverse. sure you will make t2 assault frigates even more obsolete but why is that good?instead of continually tweaking sub cruiser stuff i wish they would work on the cruiser and up ships to give more variety. drop the stupid tier system and/or boost the tier 1 bcs so they are competitive. boost allot of the worthless t1 cruisers. give us a reason to fly something other than blackbird, anti frigate caracal or rupture."
"shamans are fine. learn to play."
"if you refer to my original post you'd see that i didnt mean change the dessies sig radius, but improve 1 of the races dessies scan resolution.heres a forum thread explaining the difference linky!!the difference between a change i was referring to would still mean assault frigs are faster more agile and have a lower sig radius... yes theres a variety of ships sub-cruiser, bt theyre almost exclusively frig hulls.the only exception are dictors, and theyre only used solely for bubbling."
"ok, here's something i wrote up a little while ago with the intention of making destroyers not completely terrible:universal changes:remove rof penalty.remove 2 highslotsadd 1 midslot, 1 lowslot.add hitpoints (something around 20%)to racial tanking layerreduced sig radius (something around 20%)further changes to individual hulls described later."
"catalyst:notes: the catalyst is particularly ill-treated by the current destroyer profile, splitting its optimal and falloff bonuses awkwardly. this profile reconfigures it into a genuine gallente role: tackle, blasters and drones.new catalystdestroyer skill bonus:10% bonus to small hybrid turret tracking speed per level5% bonus to drone damage + hitpoints per levelrole bonus:50% bonus to falloff range for small hybrid turretshigh slots: 6medium slots: 3low slots: 4power output: 60 mwcpu output: 170 tfturret slots: 6launcher slots: 0shield capacity: 677armor hp: 885capacitor: 468drones: 45 m3drone bandwidth: 15 m3signature radius: 64mmax speed: 245 m/s"
"coercer:notes: the reduced number of turrets means the cap usage bonus is less critical, and extra mid and lowslot allow for cap modules if needed. new coercerdestroyer skill bonus:10% bonus to small energy turret tracking speed5% bonus to small energy turret damage per levelrole bonus:50% bonus to optimal range for small energy turretshigh slots: 6medium slots: 2low slots: 5power output: 75 mwcpu output: 160 tfturret slots: 6launcher slots: 0shield capacity: 625armor hp: 900capacitor: 450drones: 0 m3drone bandwidth: 0sig radius: 60mmax speed: 220 m/s"
"cormorantnotes: keeps the pure sniper role with the double-optimal bonus and only loses one turret hardpoint to keep it on par with the others (unbonused launchers can't reach out to sniping range anyway). the damage bonus helps compensate for the low dps of rails in general.new cormorantdestroyer skill bonus:5% bonus to small hybrid damage per level10% bonus to small hybrid turret optimal range per levelrole bonus:50% bonus to optimal range for small hybrid turretshigh slots: 6medium slots: 5low slots: 2power output: 55 mwcpu output: 215 tfturret slots: 6launcher slots: 1max targets: 7shield capacity: 882armor hp: 625capacitor: 500drones: 0 m3drone bandwidth: 0sig radius: 70mmax speed: 210 m/s"
"thrashernotes: intentionally pushing the thrasher towards autocannons/tackle here rather than the mostly obsolete alpha sniper role. only 5 turrets, but double damage bonus!new thrasherdestroyer skill bonus:5% bonus to small projectile turret rate of fire per level5% bonus to small projectile turret damage per levelrole bonus:50% bonus to small projectile turret falloff rangehigh slots: 6medium slots: 4low slots: 3 power output: 70 mwcpu output: 170 tfturret slots: 5launcher slots: 2max targets: 6shield capacity: 880armor hp: 677capacitor: 437drones: 0 m3drone bandwidth: 0sig radius: 60mmax speed: 250 m/s"
"i support teh idea i love the thrasher design but its more serve as a decoration in my hangar than any use"
"i can take my cormy into many level 4s and survive. they just can't do the dps to make it worth it. :)i think it's fine as it is...until we get tech 3 dessies!"
"sign here if you want to see an incursion start next to jita 4-4."
"troll the eve economy? sign me up."
"apocalypse starts in jita? yes! ))))"
"like that idea :domg yes please!"
"troll eve economy thats great but sadly most wont notice for they will be docked playing market games."
"they will scratch their eyes out at the green hew."
"supported. start the incursion on friday afternoon for maximum tears, next to jita 4-4 is one option, at the perimeter gate another."
"although a gallente is suggesting incursions get going in caldari space... *ahem*i think it would be a bold blitzkrieg kind of move if i were an evil cyber entity bent on collapsing the resistance of new eden. plus it would shove the economy out of that lag filled nexus."
"i too support crashing tranquility."
"**** yes!"
"puh, leaz.yes yes yes."
"do it, jita needs a bit of fun."
"yes ..... and i want the jita cam capturing it all xd"
"yes! :) i was hoping the first day would include jita in the incursions"
"ccp trolls jita? /signed"
"instead of just faction ships made by npc corporations, i would like to see special ships made by player corporations.proposal:based on existing hulls and their existing stats, manufacturers can modify the cpu/powergrid/number of slots/resistances/etc. based on a give and take balancing system. the resulting ships would be specialized, but not necessarily more powerful. one corp could make a name for themselves by specializing in anti-gurista ships by making armor and shields heavily lean towards ballistics.for example:1 more high slot in exchange for one less low slot and one less mid slot.15% more powergrid in exchange for one less low slot15% more kinetic resistance in exchange for 15% less em and explosive.10% hybrid tracking bonus per rank in cruiser in exchange for 10% hybrid range bonus per rank in cruiser and 15% less em resis.i hope one can see the opportunities to customize ships in this manner. i realize that this would be a major project (not just tweaking numbers) but the opportunites would be endless."
"this would be overpowered, someone could just make a uber ship and kill everything. now if it was like a slider where you can take attributes out of certain parts of your ship and put it into others i would support (example take 100 cpu and turn it into 50 pg and 50 capacitor). actually being able to nerf certain parts of your ship to buff other parts would be pretty cool!"
"i think we're actually in agreement, but you might have misunderstood me. it's not about making uberships, it's about making customized changes. the resulting ship might very well be weaker, in fact it should be, but specialized for a specific task. i want it to be balanced, in the examples i gave, i was hoping to demonstrate that the trade off would be substantial. a slider system could work for slots and resistances for instance. i believe the gain in a certain area should cost more than what is gained. ccp should decide what would be allowed and not allowed, but i think a 1:2 cost ratio would be more appropriate than a 1:1 ratio in stats like pg, cpu, slots, etc. and of course all the mechanic skills should be able to reduce it 3% per level to a total of 15% :)"
"submitting a help ticket did nothing to resolve this issue. i do not understand why the scanning interface icons can not simply be returned to their former graphics. the change served no real purpose and made this entire section of the game completely unusable. if it isn't broke, do not fix it."
"the aggression timer seems small when someone tries to pop you. 15 min is really nothing.i propoes that the aggression timer of 15 minutes stays - but a multiple day kill right is added to the region that it happend in.so if someone is mining - there is a chance to get 'even'. by the time you get in a pew pew ship the other ship is eitehr docked or gone - waiting out the 15 min counter.its too easy to fit out a ship with cheap mods and blow up an expensive exhumer.-and no - i didnt get popped - i survived - but since the guy docks for 15 minutes - i cant get 'even' unless i actaully war dec the corp.i would like to have someone 'free' to hunt in the region with proper kill rights on just him."
"um, no.the reverse situation of this would be a godesnd to ninja types who already know how to extend aggro mechanics far beyond 15 min, for them to be able to hold on to a grudge for days would be horrific, at best, exploited beyond all words at the very least.m"
"just so you know, ship crews have already been raised and while ccp isn't opposed to the idea per se, crews would effectively technically be the equivalent of an extra \"row\" of slots to be filled like mid slots, low slots, rigs, etc.. no matter how fun they may be, they prefer balancing the existing ships to adding even more complexity.you'll find more information about ccp's thoughts on this matter in the csm 3 minutes."
"i'll have to read that. ..an extra row of slots huh? lol ..that is so sad. loli wish you were joking; but for now, i'll assume you're not. hopefully, it's just a very fuzzy notion at this time; and will see some work in the near future.realistically: chronicles indicate that most capsuleer vessels; have no more than a smalll crew complement. a few engineers, and technician's; and nothing more. the rest of a capsuleers ship, is controlled by automated systems; which is the real reason why the technicians and engineers are there. i like this idea, and consider it the best option available; though, i suppose it entirely depends on the capsuleer.if you ask me, my ships are automated, without a single living crew member; and if something needs fixing, i'll get out of my capsule, and do it myself.i will support the idea of basic crews, filling a handful of positions though; and see it as potentially valuable to game dynamics, while being entirely optional. so you could fly your ship, by yourself, and sacrifice crew benefits; or you could handpick a crew, to increase the overall effectiveness of your ships. these would transfer ship to ship; or even be decommisioned, or left behind. optionally, they could stay on station, or be temporarily hired for a position; on a contract basis, for a single term. there's a lot of possibilites there; and i imagine if ccp said they would, then they are doing. seems to me, that pieces of information i've heard, read, or looked at; might indicate this is the case anyway, with some degree of planning already done.i just don't want them to be lifeless, if they are there; though, i don't have too much fear of that. be nice to sit in a station bar; and watch the crew have a bit of fun."
"the thing is crew wouldnt be optional for pvp if any sort of boni would apply.just another thing you had to have like heat and rigs.making them expensive wouldnt make sense from a lore perspective, so they'd be cheap and everyone would use them.again: there's already enough to balance as it is without adding extra stuff.and if they wouldnt give some kind of boni what would be the point at all?"
"yeah, if they removed all low slots from ships and added identical \"armor repair engineer\" crew you can get on board, you'd get the identical result.the difference is a rp one. it's a significant one though, i agree...here's the gist of the csm 3 minutes:"
"crews imo is a good idea and can add so much more complexity, it would be amazing, but balancing will be a pain.one thing that i would like to see as dust gets closer, is the option to deploy teams onto ships to nuetralize the pod pilot. the idea would support true piracy, pirates take capture a ship and effectively disable it while dust marines storm the ship and kill the pilot. right now piracy involves the spray and pray method, shoot to kill and hope something good drops, while the dust option would allow for complete takeover of the ship.capturing ships should be an option, supported in this aspect."
"crews are a stupid idea. it's equally stupid that ccp decided to put this lore in supporting their existence on a pod piloted ship in the first place. as far as i'm concerned my ships are un-crewed. why the hell would i want a clumsy assed human bumbling about my warship needing to be fed and changed and having their poop disposed of when i have nanonics, drones and waldoes to use. my assumption is that the reason pod ships have windows and the various indicators of a crewed ship is because the designs are retrofitted versions of standard crewed ships. this is also part of why tech iii ships are so much more powerful than their older counterparts they are built with a pod pilots in mind from inception so aren't bound by the needs that a human crew would have for space and habitat."
"how very un-gallente of you!"
"i dont agree the idea how can i ship with wasted room for bed command bridge corridors bathroom and all necesary stuff for a crew be stronger than a ship who use all this spacev to install rigs computer and more module???? thhis is a bad idea if this go trough rig should not be an option foo these ''human'' ship-1"
"it's, i'm 95% sure, an oversight that happened when ccp changed keyboard shortcuts, including the ability to map the targetting key (historically ctrl) to whatever you like. i pointed this out early to them, but they apparently didn't manage to get it back in in time (or just forgot)."
"wow.... qa anyone?"
"point 1: most males are heterosexual.point 2: most heterosexual males enjoy large breasts.point 3: most players of an online video game are male.point 4: most players of female characters are also male.point 5: most players of female characters are heterosexual males.point 6: most players of female characters would enjoy large breasts.tl/dr: boob physics. do it."
"there is already an assembly hall post for this."
"just out of curiosity, is your character supposed to be a man or a woman?"
"s/he is a very unhappy (wo)man who takes out anger by making angry forums posts.see, i am roleplaying."
"lol. sorry, i had to."
"op is a virgin who has only been able to side hug a girl."
"well, duh--i'm a goon."
"incursion site gate access should be restricted. assault and above to t2 cruiser, t2 bc hulls only, while vanguard and below also including t1 bcs and bs. there are too many noobs in bloated fleets. they serve to dilute the few logis and hacs among them, making them less available to serious attempts. one more logi getting popped in fail fleet is one less for rest of us. if this is ccp's version of raid, gate restrictions should be their version of level restriction. people who obviously have zero chance should stick to easier things, it would cut down on the whine and ragequit. i don't see looters and salvagers being locked out be a problem, pretty soon the stream of suicidal machs will cease anyway as interest wore down and word spread, it's only a temporary source of lol-income to begin with."
"you just go on to mention that getting rights for setting up that pos may be hard since your corp need to watch out for spies. if anyone at all except you (and possibly chars that you specifically gave the right to do so without corp roles being onvvolved)can access your \"personal pos\", it's not personal anymore."
"100% supported.connot be a member of an npc corp<0.7 sec spacei also like the idea of a \"micro-tower\"anchored outside shield of standard pos owned by same corpcan fit labs & arrays, no moon miningplayer cannot change corps while tower is anchoredhas shield and supports defenses."
"yes i support it."
"you didn't read the whole thread did you? especially the post right above yours that proves the op was laughably wrong.so now he's wrong and you're look like an idiot.anyone else want to necro a stupid thread without reading all of it?"
"this certainly doesn't fill me with joy."
"no, just no. it's quite the opposite. each bloodlines should have their own assets"
"that's a little harsh mate; but yeah, he is walking the plank now.."
"god, man! do you people have to keep bringing the same bull over and over again? seriously?1. you are among the few that whine constantly about the clothing variety in a vast population that cares little about it as we all know that these clothing options are appetizers for the main course to come (incarna). you want better variety? you want your tattoos? you want more accessories besides those ugly policemen sunglasses? wait for incarna. if you can't wait for incarna, the door is that way and you can drop your stuff off at my hangar.2. good luck trying to convince enough people to boycott the new system. the previous system may have had more variety, but the graphics were lame and the individual characters all looked the same in terms of facial features. in the new system, the graphics are stunning and caught up with the times (i'm spoiled by gear of war's graphics). we now have full body characters that will be walking around soon enough in the next big expansion.3. the only way ccp could improve the new system is if they had implemented it like they did just now. that way, they get the most feedback and catch the most bugs before incarna hits (not everyone logs into sisi, nor even bother to try). they could hold it back, but delaying it to add more features will only create more headaches as they then have to fix a larger patch of code in a much shorter time.*/me breathes a deep sigh of relief that his rant is over."
"i finished creating my new avatar and like in old creator i'm slightly disappointed about results. why?in old creator i made nice avatar which looked great on big picture, but when i entered game, little icon with my face in chat window appired to be completely different and looking just tragic!!now we have new creator and the problem is just the same. on big picture avatar looks awesome, and in little icon in chat window situation can still be tragic and there is no way to check, how my avatar will be looking in this little picture earlier than i login to gameproblem is, that this little icon is my real in game picture, because 99% of time other players looking on this little picture of my character other thing witch came into my mind during recreating my new avatar is this. there is 4 shots of character in creator when u creating it why can't they be all used when i first time logged, after recreating my new avatar, i was seen in chat list and local as old avatar and in chat window as new and it was awesome. same face in two different shots. if there is problem to manage more than one shot of character in one game session, there shouldn't be a problem to load one different shot every next logging. this way we have 4 pictures of our one avatar simple and great isn't it"
"only if it's client side, not server side, and can be turned off. otherwise the lag caused by this will kill the hamsters."
"supported but plz make it optional for bigger battles / slower pcsbut in general great idea :)like that one"
"allow us to unlock new bloodlines with plex/ uplex during the character creation process.this would be a purely vanity option."
"my main concern in flying around doing pi is not that i wont have enough space to haul things, or that i need to scan the planets better.my main concern is that some watchful pirate has noticed i fly to the same planets all the time, and when he sees me in local will just wait at the customs office, cloaked up in a recon or something so i cant even dscan him.i would not use this over a transport ship, unless it had ridiculous agility and acceleration. edit: this actually happened to me today, but it was such a fail pirate that i managed to warp out before he pointed me."
"apparently they hired a typography expert 2 years ago.i think he got lost in the basement and no one has managed to find him."
"looks like arial.:|"
"right now there's only one tab to sort your agents in people & places, and that's by name. could more tabs please be added, like corp, division, level (and quality), sec rating of the system, etc?"
"well i'm for not having to wait 2 more minutes when my freighter appear at 2000m from a station.i do way enough bms on w-space, and on unsafe space, to also have to bother for a simple station."
"repping a target with aggression triggers aggression. as for reps, y helo thar neuts."
"ow woot, i get a neutral rep and when the repper get's targetted he just docks up. no sweat. next neutral repper in line and so on. less crybabies about how this would diminish their ganking style and more people who see the logic.seems those who mainly deploy neutral reppers are bigger carebears than their socalled soft targets."
"wait, what?do some people seriously have hordes of neutral rep alts they can undock and rotate between aggression?"
"i know several corporations that have at the minimum of 10 neutral reppers ready at standby. and those were only the counted ones."
"in this forum, any eve player can raise an issue for debate.the best and most supported of these issue threads are picked up by the csm for debate. the issues that pass debate are bought to ccp, and if ccp consents, the issues get implemented into the game.edit to add assembly hall post."
"i saw this and at first decided i wasn't going to comment (and perhaps indeed i shouldn't). it seems that ccp, in their wisdom (or lack thereof depending on your views), are going to allow me to run again for the csm this term. whether or not i do is still up in the air, it all depends on dates, work commitments and, considering how serious the csm has gotten, whether or not i feel if i'd be capable of stepping up to the plate to do a good job of representing the players.i can understand dv's concerns. what i did was unspeakably stupid, and noone knows this more than me, both from a personal standpoint and with regards to the csm process as a whole and i wouldn't have batted an eyelid at a permaban from the game and permanent exile from iceland. however, that wasn't the case and i was told that, given time, i would be allowed to run in the future, istr words like 'redemption' and 'coming back stronger' being used. from an internet law(l) standpoint there was no provision in the csm white paper banning one from running again after an infraction as a member when it was published during my election. the fact that i'm getting a look in again and that i wasn't exiled is perhaps testament to how much they thought of my abilities and performance before the 'event' (to relieve the pressure in my head before it explodes due to my ego i'll say i find this both humbling and hard to believe).yes, there is of course a perceived risk to the csm if i find myself allowed to run, or even get a spot on the council again. both to the procedure as a whole, some would say it would discredit it, and that i'll do something silly again... well, i don't think there's much to fear. i'm very much a reformed character and having seen ccp arkanon in the flesh i shudder to think what would happen if i fouled up for a second time (note, he's a thouroughly nice chap but has the appearance of a wwii era french resistance assassin). i'd rather suffer my defeat at the hands of the people after a hard fought campaign (given the calibre of some who have stated there intention to run i'll have to work hard to prevent this if i decide to run) than in a closed discussion dominated by personal agendas."
"regardless of the subject of larkonis himself, the csm has, and should have no say in the matter of who is allowed to run or not. eligibility is a ccp issue, not a csm issue.it would set a very bad precedent. what's next, the csm deciding every candidate must be in a player corporation? or maybe nobody should be allowed to run who hasn't lived in 0.0 for at least a year? or is not a member of an alliance of at least 1000 people? or that the man/woman parity at the csm must be representative of the playerbase and that only one woman can have a seat at any time?thanks, but no thanks."
"there seems to be a lot of bs posted as to what csm can and can't recommend. fact is csm is elected and so long as they comply with their ndas they can recommend *whatever* they want. if players don't like what they do they can elect someone else. in the meantime csm is elected and it is their business what they want to propose to ccp. its not like ccp has a decent track record of listening the csm anyway. i don't see why we should *make up* further restrictions as to what csm can do out of thin air. so yeah csm has the authority to adopt this proposal.as to this particular issue i hope csm decides *not* to recommend this proposal to ccp. i hope csm takes the approach, as much as ccp will allow, that *the players* can decide who is on the csm. the limitations on candidacy should be kept to a minimum.it seems larkonis owned up for what he did. he likely could have easily fought and denied these allegations. (like a certain other former csm) but it appears he was honest about what he did when it was pointed out to him. he dealt with the embarrassment he had coming and didnt lie about it and never even tried to minimize it. some players may forever be shocked and horrified they he bought things on the eve market based on what he heard at a csm meeting. they will never vote for him no matter how much he can help the game. that is their choice. but the other players should be able to weigh in on what he has to say about the game. it really is a shame in our society that people like martha stewart lie lie and lie some more, about what they did and they are right back in business. but someone is honest about what they did and people are relentless trying to tear them down. give it a rest. tldr:csm should not shirk their responsibility and *make up*rules claiming they have no jurisdiction. but when they do address this issue they should vote the proposal down and let players decide who they want on csm."
"my personal inclination at this point is that, like meissa, i do not believe i can support dv's proposal.while i understand where dv is coming from, larkonis violated an nda with ccp, not with the csm. as such, ccp has discretion to decide what consequences are appropriate, from a slap on the wrist all the way up to lawsuits and (my personal favorite) ninja death squads.imho there has to be some discretion, so that ccp can deal appropriately with edge cases, such as an accidental nda breach caused by a misaddressed email. those of us who live in the united states are perhaps a bit sensitive to this issue, as we have seen first-hand the problems caused by \"zero tolerance\" policies.the above should not be construed as support for a larkonis candidacy, as he tried to troll my election thread last time, and i have a long memory."
"leaving aside the patch changes to pi, the numerous bugs, and the generalized whining. can anyone answer this question: would you play pi if it was a stand alone game? is it excellent? when it was announced i imagined an eve flavored command and conquer.....is there any gameplay, any real, interest any development? does it compare to any god game? rts game?why have we allowed ccp to dictate the terms of the discussion on this? pi is a horribly thought out, very boring mini game inside eve. this patch does not alter that at all.i can't see a way with the current design that they can \"iterate\" it into anything less boring or tedious.i certainly don't think that they have lived up to their promises to put energy and attention into iterating it (iteration means in this case to incrementally improve.)i would suggest a really serious rethink - and possible complete redesign - anyone else agree?"
"i understand your point, but i understand ccp too. now pi is a minigame that you play a bit and make some money. for that, it's perfect: just play as much as you like, without exceeding your personal \"boredom\" threshold. is has been revamped a bit, now resources actually deplete and the game is less clicky and boring than before. this has been the work of just one team, team pi. see pi as it is: a minigame.you must consider that a miracle happened since tyrannis: ccp actually committed to iterating on a feature before dust settles. and while i think that it is due, for many reasons (even good ones) this has not happened before. you want more? me too. i think that planets should be huge breathing worlds with huge population, with immense needs of commodities, and developing a planet should be a really big endeavour, something that gives you pride and joy. on this point, i would like to elaborate a bit exposing my thoughts about \"pi for space and pi for planets\".now planets are only useful to produce stuff for space like poses, pos fuel, pos modules, outposts, and some other commodities. all activities on planets are \"for space\". in my opinion, expanding pi continuing on this way without messing the current economy can become very complicated. i think that the best way of expanding pi is actually creating long term goals to achieve on planets, with population control, pollution or whatsoever, giving players the ability to actually administrate a district on a planet, with people, academias, infrasctures to keep those people living, food harvesting and packaging... this would also encourage people to move huge quantities of \"planetary-for-planets\" goods using industrials and freighters, giving a new powerful impulse to interstellar trade.in my opinion, this is the first step on the best way to link dust to eve, and i hope that ccp wants not only to 'write game design history', but even write the best history."
"i think concord should get its act together and get tough on crimeinals, i mean criminals! concord waiting for people to commit crime simply isnt working, so they should just assume that everyone is planning crime. blow everyone up and pod them repetedly concord!!! (remember a pod afloat if a criminal boat) we should all just live in the stations and never leave, our ships can remotely fly podless to trade and such like as we hide behind thick walls and locked doors guarded by our concordian protectors, cctv survailence monitoring us 24/7 to make sure were not planning some kind of crime....... the perfect society"
"yeah i'm pretty sure they were rank 5 back in the day when they first came out, i remember sulking about the time i had to spend grinding an advanced learning skill that didnt do anything except put one of my attribute points up :("
"currently there is none. but with new pi mechanic ecus are often moved around, and routes need to be recreated each time. without a route, all extracted material goes to waste. there's no positive reason to not route products, so why not forbid players from accepting installed program if no routes are present? or at least ask if s\he really wants to do it?"
"yes, i saw the battle report, if you notice my comment was \"wow someone is using dreads\" :)i am no saying they are useless, just saying supercarriers fill their role and well every other role.the issue really is supercarriers > titans > carriers > rest being the norm, or titans first if a turkey shoot is expected, this seems to be the problem and the fact that supercarriers and titans fill the role of dreads, even battleships are for more effective than dreads now.before the supercarrier buff (and titan nerf), alliances frequently used dreads, the option to use battleships instead was there but there was equal pros and cons of using either.who am i kidding though, theres been alot of issues for several years, bug reports and other stuff that isnt gettng sorted or fixed so i hardly doubt ccp will actually change supercarriers and dreads despite commenting and agreeing there is a problem."
"sweet jesus in a jumpsuit, would you carebears just dry your tears, accept that this is a legitimate game mechanic, and let this thread die already!!!!!1: find alternate routes around the most heavily ganked systems.2: use a scout!!!3: have a corpmate escort with a webifier fitted so you warp faster.4: have someone excort in a logistics ship to keep your dumb *** alive.5: travel at off-peak times.any combination of the above will keep you from dying in a fire and coming here to whine about it.if you really feel the need to continue crying to someone, try a gm and file a griefing complaint against the involved parties so a the gm's can have a turn laughing at your tears.no, i'm not a suicide ganker, i do have an alt that makes the jita-amarr-dodixie-hek run twice a week and has never been killed. several attempts, none successful. now htfu and quit being lazy."
"supported because it makes no sense.\"hello, this is betty at pend insurance, how can i help you?\"\"hi there, i just intentionally set fire to my own house to kill off a few family members, knowing i would lose my house in the process, and i was wondering if my insurance policy covers that.\"\"why, of course! here at pend insurance, we offer full replacement under any circumstance and without further investigation, unlike any other real insurance company out there\""
"this is all a load of rubish.concord show pay out double insurance to suiside gankers. and not turn up for atleast 2 mins to give time for the ganker to get in destroy the carebear and get out."
"bomp."
"yes please and soon."
"bumpers"
"i support this - everyone should be allowed to be a beautiful gallente!"
"i definitelly agree. i played with the new editor for hours, and while i was satisfied how my alts look, with my main's ancestry i am unable to make anything that i could like."
"supported."
"/supportwhat else can be said? there are a ton of post already proving that hybrids / gallente ships need fixed. take a look at evekill top 20...ships: # of gallete - 4 (3 of those are caps)weapon platforms: # of gallente - 1 out of 20.... thats reallllly sad, and its a cap weapon.real question is.... why does ccp take so long to get a fix out :/"
"<U+043B>  <U+043E><U+044C> <U+043E> <U+043D><U+044C>, <U+043C><U+044C> !"
"yep."
"hybrids!"
"supported"
"hope dies last"
"hybrids, tank or something..."
"however you need to make gallente competitive again, please do so."
"only if caldari gets rebalanced aswell not later than gallente."
"if they sort out the tier system, all the ships would get rebalanced. hybrids need the fix mostly"
"hey look, a terrible poster emptyquoting another terrible poster :d"
"bump"
"cat does want gallente to be buffed while keeping hybrids what they are now i.e. blasters short range"
"which is the exact problem. kinda like how companies plaster breast cancer logos all over their products to attract the eye of the consumer using the idea that sex sells. oddly enough breast cancer (while sucking big time) is not really that high on the list cancers (in terms of which is most dangerous to your health/life/etc). that is the reason there will be such a stigma around this topic.lols.more lols.i hate to agree with a ****ing goon, but, i do agree. also; point 7: some women are unhappy with their own breast size (irl) and would probably opt for a larger size in a game, given the option to increase (and given there are any femal gamers out there at all). notice i said 'some women' and not all of them. need to clear that up before some of you start trippin' boobs and responding to ish i didn't say."
"well the way i see it is that the close range nature of blasters should mean that they should have the best tracking of any system ingame. they should also have the highest dps of any weapon system ingame because of the short range nature of blasters.just take a look at evekill top 20.only 1 sub cap ship that is gallente on the top 20.only 1 gallente weapon system on the top 20, and its a cap weapon.as for failguns, i mean railguns i honestly think that they just need a complete overhaul."
"it would be a bit unfair if blasters had best damage and best tracking.it would make them more general purpose, easier to use. damage should be high, but it should be hard to use. damage should be high enough to make overcoming tracking difficulties a useful thing. employ web + scram, take advantage of falloff, try match traverse velocity. things that take real player skill. cause if you get high damage and ease of use, then it's unbalanced."
"i agree with you and i think the more diversity in weapon systems the better off pvp will be in the long run. however, the way gallente ships are currently its really hard to get into range and use blasters how they were ment to be used. if they wont fix the weapon systems (hybrids) or the ships (gallente) or a combination of both then ccp needs to reconsider and rebalance lasers and projectile based weapon systems and even take a look at missiles. as it currently stands both hybrids and gallente ships (sub capitol ships) are vastly underrepresented in the grand scheme of things. just take a look at evekill top 20. its quite easy to look at game balance from evekill top 20 because people will always gravitate towards what works best because this is a full loot pvp game. people will do anything and take any advantage that gives them a better chance to win. there are so few gallente based weapon systems and ships because they don't win you fights (except gallente capitol ships :p)."
"i would disagree here. the limiter is already the short range(plus fitting, ammo, cap use etc. if you want to include it), what makes it mostly a small gang and solo weapon. in this scenarios it is mostly important that the gun performs a very solid job(better than other weapons in his engagement range and if you play it to the strength of it). it isn't difficult to apply very good damage to heavy tackled or ranged targets with lasers, it isn't difficult to apply damage with projectiles at a very huge range spectrum. this only leaves close range for blasters, where they must outperform other guns by a huge margin, both in the ability to apply damage(mostly by a proper web instead of higher tracking) as well as by superior base damage to make them a viable choice over the other options again."
"(sucky) bump."
"suported missile lunchedv from, core of ship suck i want to see a pack of missile instead of i big ball of light ..."
"bump. gallente's hurting and needs some love."
"mmmmmmmmhhhhmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm(10th pg!)"
"the problem with his argument is, of course, that ccp has never said that a single person is guaranteed to be able to make a difference if they're outmatched by other 'single players'. it's an absurdity, and he doesn't really believe it. \"i fought two armageddons in my omen, and i lost. but ccp promised i can make a difference!\"individuals can still be beaten, especially by others working in groups. that's the whole point, and that's part of why the demand for \"making a difference as an individual\" is a troll. if one individual can make a difference, then two people working against that one person can too. by demanding that only that one person can, then the two people who oppose him are stripped of their ability to make a difference. it also deliberately ignores the fact that there have been many, many people who've made a huge difference on eve. from personalities like molle to traitors like hargoth to skilled fc's (in point of fact, fc's often do more to shape the world of eve than absolutely anybody else, at all), individuals can and do shape eve. they're just not guaranteed to be able to 'out individual' another group of individuals, especially since doing so means that when individuals choose to work for a common goal, they'll be smacked down if individuals who can not or will not cooperate with others get upset about it. it's a rabbit trail. here, let me repeat in case you really don't grok:no, it didn't target player-created politics. how players interact with concord is not player created, it's player-mediated. 0.0 space is designed for players to create the content. these two are not interchangeable: -nerfing jb's only for those who've managed to get jb's set up and/or networked with other alliances due to holding space, and for those might hold space later on. -altering the flow of jump bridges in empire for every single person, regardless of who they are or what their politics are. you seem to be confusing my argument with someone's trolling about what they pretends my argument is. i never said that taking jb's away eliminates the ability for people to form coalitions. in fact, i pointed out that ccp's attempt to break sandbox play and make smaller alliances \"independent\", whether or not the rest of the players in 0.0 wanted them to be, would fail. in point of fact, i have continually argued for why trying to stop player-created politics from developing as the players want it to, and trying to break sandbox play by making nonviable alliance \"independent\" are bad precedents. in and of themselves."
"ie. it didn't happen in null therefore it doesn't count. so, evenhanded then.fact is, precedent exists. emergent, player created behaviour has been forcibly changed in the past and may well be changed in the future. burying your head in the sand and saying effectively that empire isn't a sandbox anyway is disingenuous and ultimately weakens your point. if for the sake of argument it had been nbph-n that had developed into a trade hub and then nerfed would that then qualify?i'm open to being convinced finn, but you are going to have to actually argue a real point. to say that it wouldn't alter anything anyway is effectively saying that they might as well do it as not. in other words, why is an eve with jb as they exist today preferable to one without, or one with weakened bridges. (convenience doesn't work as an argument for me incidentally)"
"i'll assume that your (second) misunderstanding is not intentional. yet again, it's player-created content that's at issue. not nullsec in specific. it simply happens to be resident in nullsec. if faction warfare produced actual benefits and allowed the players to really build empires, it would be as improper for that, too. rather obviously, \"effecting only those who hold space\" is not equivalent to \"absolutely everybody who travels in empire.\" rather than pointing out how they're equivalent, you simply say \"yah, they are.\"bull****. no. yet again, how players relate with concord is not at all the same as how players create and run their own empires. the hint should be that in empire if you do something wrong, you have an invincible, implacable, unavoidable enemy that will automatically kill you and avoiding them is an exploit. does such a mechanic exist in player-created empires?"
"well i must thank you finn for showing me that you are not in fact interested in debate but merely shouting down anyone who disagrees with you with \"nuh-uh, sandbox\". i gave you the benefit of the doubt as many of your previous opponents have been somewhat adversarial and you seem to be somewhat articulate.i could point out that the only thing sanctioned by concord is actual unprovoked aggression, and that all other activities, regardless of how reprehensible they are considered by the playerbase are acceptable, but that would obviously be pointless. after all, only nullsec is part of the sandbox.good day to you finn, fly safe 07"
"so nobody cares about game design of war strategy games, just political and personal mumbo jumbogreat"
"just let them get rid of jump gates, what changes for you? -for me? -in most general terms, for the whole community?nothing, just reorganisation and more titan bridges."
"i support finnagain zero's suggestion of jump bridge removal and delayed local."
"an interesting way to look at it is as follows: at current there is effectively no way for a small or even a large alliance to effectively go head to head with the nc for any length of time.examples such as triumvirate, pl, xxdeath, rk/smash, all took on 10 20 or even 30 alliances spread around most of the north. sure there may have been initial successes and in some cases prolonged success, but there was no way for these alliances to ever have a lasting impact or even a genuine one so long as they did not enter into an existing powerblock.in the old days before jumpbridges, when d2 still ruled the north, i remember an enourmous cta (200 people lol) coming down to roll a few small alliances in geminate. the entire onslaught lasted 2 days because no one could be bothered flying to and from the staging area. why? because as you have been so rightly pointing out, not everyone is playing this game for the pvp. thus any argument relying on alliance numbers being projected via closeby staging systems is largely just crap imo.changes to these machanics will give smaller or just non-coalition alliances a bigger chance than they previously had. this will likely give us a much more dynamic 0.0 with more active people (hopefully unalligned to the current 3 powerblocks), this no matter how you are spinning it is not bad for the game. everyone gets more content. everyone gets more weight put on their decisions. this wont get rid of the sandbox, it will reinforce it!your choices will hopefully matter more. we are litteraly never going to see 0.0 cease to be controlled prodominantly by coalitions, but we can hope to let people who arnt interested in that to have a greater than sub 0 chance. eve can be dynamic, it can be active, there can be plenty of pvp instances. atm there are not because there are no insentives for coalitions to stop non-sovthreatening gangs rolling around their sapce, there is no insentive to restrict the amount of space alliances hold (too easy to sustain / expand), there are no insentives for conflict eg. differing value of space. these things being introduced would give meaning back to the sandbox. your choice is no longer coalition a, coalition b, lose.what i would like to hear from the people against this proposal is \"would this change make eve less fun?\"theres been a lot of crappy sidetracking about ccp shouldnt mess around with what they have already added into the game, but honestly all it boils down to for me is... will these changes make eve better, and will it be more fun?if either answer is yes... i dont think any of this other crap matters."
"and part of the reason is - no way to disrupt logistics. no way to starve the beast.it has to be all-out pitched battle for every pos/tcu. and it's always a pitched battle because it's always known in advance, with the reinforcement timers and all. anything small is completely irrelevant.jb may not be the only thing to blame, but they sure add to the problem.that's my belief."
"lets get rid of it!"
"this really is what this thread has been about. you have side tracked into a debate about the effect of these possible theoretical changes.you dont understand. the fact that csm/ccp are in the position of discussing using a game mechanic to institute a potential change to content that we the players created matters.it matters if you like jump bridges. it matters if you dislike jump bridges."
"we are talking about political mumbo jumbo as you so ignorantly put it. if you want to talk about the design of war strategy games please do so in your own thread."
"i support this.getting stuff to 0.0 is just too easy....and you still have jfs and all the other cyno capable ships. it will make 0.0 more exciting....think of all those ppl roaming around without jbs.....yeyeve is suppost to be hard/harsh...no jbs will make 0.0 what it used to be."
"one can change the texture and colour of sand in the sandbox without changing the fact that it is a sandbox. if ccp was hoping players would build sandcastles, but instead we are eating the sand, would making the sand unpalatable be making it no longer a sandbox?would simply increasing the time-cost of materiel movement lead to large coalitions breaking up? would making moon goo spawn randomly lead to large coalitions breaking up? would making sovereignty dependent on pvp kills lead to large coalitions breaking up? would restricting the number of moon harvesters/poses a corporation can run lead to large coalitions breaking up? would adding rts concepts such as \"control units\" lead to large coalitions breaking up (or would they simply spawn more overlords)? would restricting the number of jumps per day that a hull could endure, lead to large coalitions breaking up? would \"making eve bigger\" lead to large coalitions breaking up? would causing system resources to \"dry up\" over time lead to large coalitions breaking up?would the large coalitions adapt to the changing texture and colour of the sand in the sandbox and remain large coalitions? perhaps it is in the nature of humanity to form large groups?would it be possible to modify the sandbox to the point where nullsec alliances end up constantly at war with their neighbours instead of forming naps with all and sundry?"
"you can improve server performance greatly by just no longer allowing connections to tranquility which seems to be the desired result. that is, less people playing eve."
"man i can't wait to base out of the nearest empire market and still steamroll whoever the **** i want"
"this proposal is not the first indication that ccp wants to tell people that they are \"sandboxing wrong\". the npc corp tax was and i wonder which side of that debate the various posters in this thread were.those of us who opposed that change did so based on the fact that it was only justified by the idea that ccp wanted people in player corporations and were willing to change the game to \"encourage\" them.actually i know one, ephemeron has shown a consistent willingness to ask ccp to force others to accomidate his playstyle. as such he's supported every half brained idea that would somehow make the game \"hardcore\" (translated provide him with easy targets) that comes along. from the npc corp tax to removal of l4's from highsec so i'm completely unsurprised he would support this one.then we get this proposal to break up large coalitions by making logistics more difficult, another attempt to force certain behaviors in gameplay through mechanics.the npc corp tax set a bad precedent of ccp using game mechanics to force gameplay choices on the player there by breaking the sandbox model. removal of a functional gameplay mechanic that is working exactly as designed would be yet one more step down that slippery slope of themeparkdom.too all the supporters of this nonsense fin has soundly thrashed you in this debate no matter how much your little intellects think you have faired against him. i've only recently decided to give null a go so i'm no expert to all this i've not even seen a jump bridge yet. but i have been spending a lot of time reading up on null politics while trying to figure out where i want to go. so i've been following the conflicts that finn mentions and his descriptions ring very true. nc was not able maintain their offensive in the east while defending their tech moons despite their extensive jb network that would supposedly enable them to do so. they had to break off that offensive to return and reclaim their tech moons from pl. pl managed to project force perfectly friggin fine in this case with no jb network. the idea that making logistics more time consuming and tedious would in anyway shape or form improve the quality or quantity of pvp opportunities in the game is ludicrous. the more time consuming and tedious logistics becomes the more risk adverse people will become. consider if it takes 1 hour of logistics to replace a pvp ship one would far more willing to risk that ship in an uncertain engagement than if it took 5 hours. one of the major reasons that rvb gets such a high quantity of the \"goodfights\" that so many small scale pvp proponents want is because it's logistics were relatively painless. when you are only looking at 2-3 jumps to reship and get back into the fight it's far easier to e motivated to reship and turn right back around again then if you were looking at an hour of carebearing to earn the isk plus 3 hours of hauling **** from jita to get the ships and modules. obviously there needs to be some balance so that there is actually some risk but care must be taken to not make the pita factor beat out the fun factor.turning this game even more into logistics online is a bad idea.oh yeah tedious and boring /= hardcore. besides it's a game if you want hardcore join the marines.not supported."
"looking at both sides, and having lived in 0.0 i agree with bridges going.hardly ever did we move in 0.0 without using a bridge, and there was never any risk to it. empire is riskier.furthermore ccp makes the game and they are fully entitled to make changes that in their opinion improve the game. i've seen what the game was like when it started, i honestly didn't like it.i like it now. ccp changes have consistently been in the right direction imho.supported."
"this is honestly the stupidest idea ever that would make tons of already cramped space useless and dead wow"
"ability to disrupt enemy logistics adds new dimension to strategy.that's a fact of both game design and real war. anything that increases strategic and tactical choices in war is automatically good for pvp.political discussions are irrelevant. personal preferences are irrelevant.those things are valid only in the scope of the sandbox. decisions to modify the sandbox are outside the scope of the sandbox"
"pretty bad argument.- pl had nothing to loose.- pl had nothing to defend.- pl had no need to go and help out \"friends\" on the other side of the map.any group in this game can project their force anywhere they want. the real issue is when a group can change the area they wanna do this in, within a short amount of time.one can argue that \"oh wow, 15 jumps instead of 30 jumps\" hardly game breaking. maybe not, but think in a bigger picture. think relocation of assets, dreadnoughts, carriers, multiple ships, mods, fuel, everything that needs to be moved for longer fights.before jumpbridges, moves like that had to be proper planned and executed. and people moved in groups. i`m not saying people aint moving in groups today, but they did in a much bigger degree before.with jumpbridges, people can move on their own for the most of the time. they simply move through the jump bridge system. if that had been done before jump bridges, they would simply been picked off by even the smallest gangs.region wide logistics could simply be cut off by small roaming gangs, if the groups moving was not prepared or of a proper size. and small roaming gangs can not compete with deathstar pos + jumpbridge.add titanbridges and some carefully located cynos, and groups can practically bypass/jump over entire regions.a very common tactic i have seen been used is simply move the entire fleet by jumpbridge until the jumpbridge network ends, then do the rest with titans until the fleet is within a few jumps from the target system, if not jumping directly into the targetsystem.another argument that keeps getting brought up is that it will reduce activity in 0.0...i can simply point back to the time when ascn was still alive. anyone who was active at that time, know that ascn space was booming with life. at it`s peak it was almost it`s own little empire. one of it`s goals was that it would be as selfsufficient as possible. this was also before jump freighters.look at feythabolis today, and it`s a wasteland compared to the old days.either you live in empire, or you live in 0.0\"people dont wanna travel x jumps just to get a fight\"then alliances should stop putting everything within 30jumps of their borders blue.main reason every major fights today ends up with a+b+c+kitchensink vs d+e+f+toiletbowl is because they can!! there is`nt really any timesink or logistic reason not to.my experiences with jump bridges comes from the short time in aaa. aaa didnt have the biggest jump bridge system around but anyway.it was a joke!! it had daily roams comming in from querious through the fat area. they had no impact, no impact at all on my movements. i could sit in local and see them passing by, then jump on the bridge network, just to pass by them a few jumps further up the pipe. i could move freely without any interuption by any gangs. within minutes i could move from fat to hed and back. at the same time the entire pipe from hed and down to ge could be camped for all i know. it did not matter!!!"
"well put."
"tzeer says the truth.i was member of ascn for a while, i remember the space used to be more lively than it is now. and as he says, small roaming gangs are completely irrelevant to a local alliance with jbs and titan bridges."
"kill all bridges...oh, my friend finnagain zero is here!"
"in my humble opinion the best approach to \"fixing\" hybrid weapons is no a straight damage boost to a weapon system, that would favor gallente more then caldari, but an addition/ modification of:rate of fire modifier (rof * x.xx) to hybrid ammo;base damage tweak of hybrid ammo, taking into account the rof modifier;diversification of % kin/thermal base damage(70/30, 60/40, etc.);modification of exiting cap usage modifier;*possibly spiting ammo in 3 range gropes (-50%, 0%, +50%)?this way both factions get some what of an even boost?"
"beams: uses cap, no reloadinghybrids: uses cap, ??? bad damage ???missiles: no cap, always hitsartillery: no cap, high alpha"
"+1rails need fixed plz."
"all i'm saying is i know that dps is a big part of the equation. if our dps is destined to be crappy, then at least expand the range (via tracking and falloff boosts) where our rails are useful. being able to hit something 100km away but only have a 8800 m sweet spot due to falloff is rediculous."
"well, that's why in-breeding is frowned upon. now get back to work you dirty matari slaves.....oh, wait...dammit."
"all the minmatar look like crap. my mains old picture didn't look asian at all! now i have a half asian ponce that i am trying to dress up so he doens't look like an awkward foreigner trying to fit in. last i checked minmatar were slaves and escaped the amarr, yet now we look like them suddenly?fix fix fix!(also, face tattoos. now.)"
"everyone knows there are lots of bots. most of us can spot miner macros on high sec pretty quickly, they are everywhere. they are so many of them in fact, it almost changes the focus of player events (hulkageddon).most veterans also knows there are tons of botters in null sec. up to the point where it becomes common knowledge. nicknames (aaa botters, legion of botters), bad puns (drone regions, get it?) or mottos (what happens in venal, stays in venal) are all products of rampant botting.ccp's stand, at least officially, is that botting is illegal and punishable by bannings. they say they are doing the best they can, yet we see more and more complaints about botting. if it is so easy for us to spot and prove that someone is botting/macroing, how hard could it be for ccp to assign 1 gm to hunt bots. its not exactly a secret where they do this stuff .there are lots of threads about botting and ccp is certainly is avoiding them. there's only one method of inquiry that they cannot ignore, and that is csm.thumbs up if you think next csm should bring this situation to the table and ask why is ccp openly allowing bots to flourish.note: as a person who's income is coming from market games or mission running, i have no direct quarrel with bots as one might assume. however, i am concerned about the current and future state of my favorite game."
"not a day goes by where i don't encounter at least three unique bots ingame. that's not an exaggeration."
"ccp doesn't care about botting unless it involves rmt and evidence that botting itself is harming the game is dubious at best."
"we should all start botting then."
"yes, you do."
"it does because it hurts players...that said ccp is failing because the only care about the rmt problem and care about bots as a function of rmt.they need to stop botting...even if it is not tied to rmt. i got so mad at teh csm minutes because ccp seemed incapable of saying they are working on botting other than how it connected to some rmt operations.players want bots gone....all of them.i don't want to bot....but with the lack of enforcment and rampant bots creating an alt acount funed through isk bought plex's and making me isk sounds rather nice. as mentioned it not hard to see bots...everyone knows who and where they are..any step towards banning these acount and thier ip's would be a step in the right direction. we need more unholy fury.currently eve is rampant with bots. at the very least that is the player perception of the cituation and reguardless it needs to be delt with as players are not happy about the bot situation and thus it should be delt with.additionally penalties shoudl be harsher. when you ban a bot let us see nto onkly who..but what alliance. if we see an alliance with a large amount of bots banned the players will scorn that alliance until it shapes up. i know my corp does not tolerate botting..why should thiers...thismay be the most effective tool. if a corps or alliance stands to lose reputation for botters they may more actively police themselves. further a better tracking of where the isk goes.if i know that if i use a bot and transfer the isk to my main that my main will get banned(and my alliance shamed) i will be less likely to use a bot.this needs to be done now....not ina few months or years but now. let us see action."
"i don't really encounter bots unless i'm trading in mega-hub, so i have no direct quarrel as i said. that doesn't mean they don't effect me however"
"i support this!+1"
"i think the problem is that some players are so stupid and carebearish that if you look at how they play and how bots play, you won't be able to see the difference.some people just play like bots. and neither you nor ccp can tell for sure if there's a real person behind the computer, without discriminating against stupid."
"supported. +1i doubt csm will get an honest response from ccp, though. but heck, stranger things have happened in the universe. :)"
"are you seriously suggesting there are players out there who play 23/7 ratting in null sec, then warping off and cloaking up when someone enters the system? are you really suggesting there are players out there with no corp history, barely 3 months old, and fly an industrial through low sec all day every day 23/7?are you implying that all those players with zxbdqkl names who mine ice belts in high sec 23/7, with no corp history, barely 3 months old, and warp back and forth from station to belt repeatedly in their pod after they get ganked aren't bots?really!?i can't tell if you're truly that naive or just incredibly stupid."
"there are people who play 8 hours a day and leave eve running overnight while afk cloaked. i used to do that.most cases it only looks like the player is 23/7, when in reality it's probably 6 hours or less and afk the resti know a lot of people who use alts for carebearing - alliance members in fleet ops, who switch to other chars while they are waiting for something to happen.some of those could be alts of real peoplei'm not defending bots, and i'm not claiming there are no bots. neither do i care for carebears and stupid people. i'm just pointing out a simple fact - it's not easy to distinguish between a botter and a mindless carebear. ccp cannot afford to make the mistake, even if there's only 5% chance the player is legit, they can't make a move. they gotta be 100% sure. and it's sure hard to get those last 5% of certainty.i am for modifying the game to make it either to grief botters and carebears.removing local in 0.0 would be a good start."
"supported."
"i guess you trained evasive manoeuvring to lv v, the way you side-step the obvious with your reply. :) being online 23/7 is not a sign of being a bot per se -- mining 23/7, however, is!since it would take ccp like 5 minutes to write a small script to see who falls into the latter category, the only logical inference must be that they don't give a rat's ass."
"supported.i don't care too much about the isk, i just hate the fact the only way you can reliably kill macro ratters in a reasonable amount of time is with awoxing (especially the interdiction nullifier tengus like the goons all use). and this means recycling characters which is a bannable offense (i don't do it personally)."
"i'd like the next csm to champion delayed local and a new d-scanner with new scan mechanics.bullsheat nc alt op not supported."
"supported.bots can be fought the same way ccp is going after phishing, by multiple actions at different places.modify the code so its harder for a bot program to control it.modify the content so its harder to be botted.add means to identify potential bots; activity monitors, player reports (which seem to be ignored currently), and maybe others. seeing someone's client do stuff that can only be the result of mouse or key clicks 23/7 is a rather good indication.have a gm challenge potential botters identified above. add a clause to the eula that says failure to respond to a gm challenge while you are playing can get your account suspended. if the player continues to do stuff requiring manipulating the client while a gm convo sits in the middle of the screen, they get suspended. if they suddenly stop doing stuff, or log upon getting a gm challenge, they get flagged for future challenge. repeats of this behavior can result in suspensions.name and shame would also be good, as well as releasing data in the qen as to how many accounts get banned, and an estimate of the number of bots still in the game. at the moment the only ones who have any idea how many bots are in the game and how good a job ccp is doing against them are ccp and the botters. us honest players are left in the dark.at the moment it may be eve does not have a player driven economy. it has cheater driven economy."
"supported!to allow cheating in a computergame will evidently lead to it's doom.please ccp! take action against cheaters before it's too late!!!"
"i know for a fact that ccp is not ignoring bots. at least two bots players have been removed after my alt filed a report.however, i would like them to continue working on this, in some form or another. at least tell us they are working on fight it. don't need specifics. just something along the lines of \"we see you posts, and are working on a solution\"."
"or..... csm could focus on something that actually matters and for which they can make improvements.faction war is a good start."
"i entirely agree. i hope they appear on the backlogs for june, and i've poked people about them. the t3 refit is an important fix for wh residents.there will be some news coming out about upcoming fixes in the reasonably near future, i hope."
"maybe i'm late on this, because i haven't bothered to read the last3 pages of comments, but perhaps we should be allowed to plug into some sort of \"virtual reality\" to kill each other. it makes your wish of in-station combat come true, and it doesn't violate any sort of out of pod safety concerns."
"what's this i hear about the csm wanting to make wrecks probeable?! i'm very much against that! because it makes running missions in unprobeable ship meaningless!"
"well personally i don't think unprobeable ships should even be possible to begin with. as for the major benefits though, it makes salvaging an actual profession and probably helps reduce lag or something when all those wrecks are cleared."
"scanning down players is apparently too hard for some people who want the easy kill."
"bull####!its way too damn easy... just go stop by dodoxie some time.wrecks do not need to be probable."
"i believe the issue is not what happens in dodixie or other hi-sec systems, but missioning and plexing in lo-sec and null."
"i was being sarcastic. i know its too easy."
"why not create a special wreck probe that can only be used in highsec then, sort of like the opposite restrictions to an interdiction sphere launcher. doesn't change people running in unprobable ships, allows people to clean up and salvage after other people in highsec fine (where the salvaging profession will primarily be used)"
"thats actually quite a fantastic idea.i support this guy's post."
"in a way, i support what the csm is recommending - under one condition. if the wrecks are not probable in a deadspace area, but only in normal space (such as when turning in a mission), then i have no problem with it. otherwise, it would become way too easy to ninja in high-sec, and gank in low/null sec.in general, though, i support your measure. also remember to click the support checkbox if you do support it."
"^this"
"perfect!"
"not all missions occur in deadspace, though.currently missions aren't probeable (except for ded complexes, with known locations). via probeable wrecks people would get an easy backdoor to find missions (and the people in it), after all.if wrecks must be made probeable per se, then make it simply so that all your wrecks become probeable only after you turn in the mission. that is more logical anyway, as, immersion wise, it's kinda strange you're able to probe inside a deadspace pocket anyway, from the outside (what with the existence of acc gates and all)."
"why should unprobeable ships even exist though? eve is all about risk vs reward, and there is currently no risk in flying an unprobeable t3 cruiser which can negate bubbles. being able to probe wrecks brings nothing but benefits, and you can always pop your wrecks anyway and still have your supercloaked mission runner."
"supported conditionally. the condition is critical.as long as wrecks are not probable in a deadspace or within 1 million kilometers of a mission's warpin point, i will support a wreck-scanning probe.no \"currently active mission\" immunity, no support."
"eve is not just about risk vs. reward. it's also about fitting choices. if someone is willing to gimp his or her ship with 3-4 mods to make it unprobeable, thus not leaving room for other mods in their stead, then i say that's a perfectly valid choice.also, in 'attacker' vs. 'defender,' often a lot of people seem to side with the attacker. which is to say, whenever someone finds a way to defend himself (from ecm, from probing, from being jammed, whatever), there's always folks who immediately look upon said successful defence as some sort of exploit, or dishonest advantage. why is that? you have tools to scan people down, i have tools to defend myself from that (when fitted accordingly). if i don't fit those mods, you can find me. if i do fit those mods, you can't. i say that's good balance. and making wrecks probeable, while the missioner is still in mission, only introduces a great disturbance in the force.not really. it only takes a fraction of a second to probe down a wreck of mine (if someone just happens to be scanning in that area); and then you're humped.also, flying unprobable ships is 'working as intended.' we have talon implants to increase our gravimetric strength, for instance. they serve no other purpose than to help your ship become unprobeable.and, like i said, introducing probeable wrecks, to circumvent a valid game mechanic to stay unseen, is un-balanced. after the mission has been turned in, i'm okay with wrecks being ffa, though."
"author does have a point. however, in my opinion, importance of advancing salvager proffesion exceeds the importance of unprobable ships by a large margin"
"i'm stuck on this. as a salvager, i would love this. but there are many ways it can be abused..."
"like i said. it is very annoying but it works how ecm is supposed to work. gone are the days of olde where you were always perma jammed from 90 to 150 km away. so i welcome this chance based system as i can improve my chances of not being jammed by eccm'ing up and have a command ship boosting sensor integrity.but that's ecm and i'd like to mainly focus on the other ew drones as these drones are clearly underpowered. having powerful sd/td/ev/tp drones as well as the feared ec drones would really mix things up. simply nerfing ec drones isn't the answer as everyone will just forget about ew drones and use combat drones. which is dull as i want variety. i want to think \"crap! he's using td drones, i can't hit anything! wasn't expecting that!\" or another generic \"oh dear\" line with other ew drones."
"this"
"you're absolutely right. ^_^ guessing it's not made the list or something ... here's hoping!"
"i think everyone has proposed this at one point or another. naturally, i support this.-liang"
"i will support this only with the following additional condition:if any of the items in a fitting can be found inside the station hangar, then only those items needed to complete the fitting shall be bought.this will enable two functions:one can purchase only that what is needed to complete the fitting and thereby avoid buying unnecessary items.it prevents players from spamming the market with too many requests by forcing them to either fit or store the purchased items away before they can buy the same fitting again.you do not want to have a player who is sitting in jita and hits the \"buy fitting\" button a hundred times per minute.i do not see a problem with buying an incomplete fitting in case not all of the items are available. the feature could be made smart and have it check for available variations to offer them to you. this way a fitting can be used as only a template and one can buy better or cheaper variations of an item.the proposal itself could be made part of a bigger one around buying and selling multiple items, including the support of shopping lists where a saved ship fitting is just an alternative for a shopping list."
"1.0"
"hey,"
"thank you, but the information needs to be provided by the game's map. this is where the players expect to find it.you can get the numbers with eve maps or by using the ccp database dump, too, or by just reading the orbital body information to a system and then count the belts and fields yourself. this is however not the point.with pi did we get new filters and for each type of planet. and ask yourself, how often does one need to look this information up on the map? or, have you ever used these new filters yet?the point of this proposal is to get the information onto the game's map together with a 24h indicator for the state of a system's asteroid belts (based on an average).it will be of good use for every miner day by day and it is also the core purpose of an intelligent map as the one in eve to be of good use."
"hulkageddon guys will love this feature.no idea how this helps miners.edit: roids respawn at a crazy rate now anyway, not like you have to go far to find roids."
"do not post when you have no idea, but instead go mining. if you are trying to say the mining activity shall stay hidden then you should say why you need to hide it, too."
"i support this thread"
"sure why not. doesn't hurt, does it?"
"i'm sure ccp is working on banning bots(not just working on fighting rmt....)but as a player we see nothing and we grow frustrated that day after day we see bots in system that any dollard could spot.players would be less likelly to use bots if they felt there may actually be a penalty(not worth the reward).so let us see the bots you have banned..show us a list of banned bots...there must be some every month.further more let use see what alliance they where in or forwarding isk to.for banned bots show who benifited.also display how much isk was taken from those who benifited or who was banned.this would do a number of things.1) alliances would police themselves to keep thier reputation. 2)players who bennifit would be ostrasized by the community3)people would actually feel like there was a penalty to botting...4)non botters would feel that ccp was actually doing something."
"ccp is not legally obliged to report anything to you, and in fact are against the 'name it and shame it' crowd. i would like to see numbers without identities just to prove the actions they perform, but asking any more is useless.not supported."
"^^ highly questionable premiss.everything from there is pointless. not supported."
"one of the usual problem when we lock targets is that they can be affected both with positive effect (rr for example) and negative effect (turrets, etc).it's a problem in high sec (concordokken !!), it's borring when you are in logistic ship with warriors, it's borring when you are in carrier, etc.the idea is to have 3 small icons near the locked target icon. like this :please visit your user settings to re-enable images.by selecting one of them, you'll be able to limit by yourself what what you can do to your target.neutral icon : the basic one, automatically selected when you lock, no change from now (can be both affected by hostile and positive effect)red icon : target can be affected only with hostile modules/drones (turrets, scout drones, energy neut,...)blue icon : target can be affected only by positive modules/drones (rr, projected eccm,...)that's simple and effective.for example, when you have both scout and logi drones in space you can send them to the right target far faster cause they are automatically distributed.that can be also usefull in rr bs fleets, no more friends shooting you instead of remote you.usefull during fleet fights, usefull for new players, help you to reduce mistakes,... a must to have"
"i do like this idea. how easy it would be to implement though i do not know.also, confusion is a huge weapon on the battlefield. many many times in real life history military forces shoot at their own forces either by a simple mistake or because the enemy has caused so much confusion that they have no idea what they're doing anymore.so sadly, although i think it is a good idea i'd rather leave something like this out."
"\"cheating refers to the overt or covert breaking of rules to gain advantage in a competitive situation.\" from wikidediausing bots and macros is cheating and a violation of the eula, plain and simple!in my opinion the problem with players cheating is not up to the players to solve, it's ccp's problem to solve. what we can do is to keep telling ccp that we don't like there way of handling the problem and demand that they fix it. whine so much about it that they are forced to take action. being silent and/or accept that cheating is part of the game and even defend it in whatever way will slowly but surely drive players away from the game. is that the eve you want to play?i been playing this game since early 2006 and i think eve online is the best game i ever played. but when i see that players cheat and gets away with it without ccp even lifts an eyebrowse to correct the problem, it takes away alot of the feeling that this still is the best game ever. i talked to other players that share my opinion and it seems to be the opinion of lots of players writing on the forums as well. tl;drseeing more and more players being allowed to cheat takes away the fun in playing eve online."
"if i may suggest:i see the problem is that the mining sites are \"handleable\" per say.the idea would be to increase the number of rats that attack the belts, and the frequency (come on, if you're defending something and lose it, you'll try as fast as possible to regain control of it). mining in 0.0 should be dangerous fluff wise. have the npcs increase the more miners there are.make the botters spend time defending their operations, and by that, i mean a lot of time. scannable grav sites in 0.0 would be a very nice alternative to static roid fields, while ccp could keep the static one in 1.0 to 0.7 security (after that, scan only), and the same rules apply accordingly."
"not supported.i am against all game mechanic changes that are meant to fight macros & bots. any change that is being made to stop macros & bots will be fought by the makers of these. the players have to live with the changes, while macros & bots have gone past it. i am not willing to pay ccp for such changes. all features shall always and only be made for a direct improvement of the gameplay. if then a change has got a positive side-effect on the macros & bots situation (i.e. by forcing them to adjust) shall it be preferred over other game changes."
"there is no other sec status. it has got only one sec status per system and all that is being displayed is this number rounded to one digit after the point.the sec status can also go from 0.0 over -0.3795748325448 down to -1.0. all that you see being displayed in the game is however \"0.0\".this is also the number a pos module is being compared to. if a module can be anchored in some 0.4 systems, but not all, then it is likely a bug. this is how i read the op's comment.eve is full of little rounding bugs in case you have not noticed it yet. sec. status of toustain is 0.411824000977859, or just 0.4 for every other eve player.sec. status of ratillose is 0.36646798152469, or just 0.4 for every other eve player.if it is a problem with rounding then the module should work in ratillose but not in toustain."
"as so far as pos modules go 0.4 is 0.4, the problem is that the op is trying to moon mine in a 0.4 system. it cannot be done.he is under the assumption that a pos in 0.4 should be able to anchor and use all the modules, as a pos in 0.3 and below.read hooman target's post and check out the web sites listed and that should clear up the confusion about what you can and can't do in 0.4 and higher systems."
"i like it!edit: feel sorry for the developers who already put a lot of effort into independent apps, tho"
"yes please, i've got one for my android phone that does most of the basic stuff but i'd like to be able to access my mail and calender from an app instead of having to deal with scrolling constantly in the browser."
"this is a great idea! when i'm at a computer with free time, i play eve. why would i use eve gate when i can just log in? a great target market for eve gate would be popular mobile platforms.i can't speak for everyone, but while i'm at work looking at eve / eve gate would be frowned upon. at home i just play eve if i feel like it. the only time i don't have access (and would use it) are the in-between times or while traveling. thats when i read blogs / e-mail / ect. i would love to throw eve gate into the mix with a mobile friendly app."
"not sure if this is a troll, but i'll bite.this is idiotic. people are willing to make great apps like aura and capsuleer for free/cheap. ccp should just pull their heads out of their asses and let those guys make a buck or two off it without threatening to throw their lawyers at them. we're still waiting on that new forum software that we were told would come out w/ incursion. also, look what a useless piece of junk eve gate is. do you really want those guys doing the job? they will delete your phone's boot.ini.not supported."
"i agree, ccp needs to give a little to get a lot back in return. they are running off an old mmo model (blizzard and 3rd party apps). if you let the developers make money, an app community will grow and thrive, giving us players more options to access eve, giving ccp ideas they dont didn't have the time to create. in return, they will get increase in interest and subscriptions.you have to give to get."
"with the api now coming thru"
"probably i am just missing something, however what is the big deal with all the phone apps these days? there are apps by weather radar sites, television stations to view stuff later, etc. all stuff that is also possible via their normal website. now you can do two things to make them accessible by smart phones:1. make an app for the iphone. and obviously blackberry, windows mobile, android and symbian. i think that are the major players atm, so you got to make 5! different apps.2. make the site itself suitable to be viewed by mobile phones, and w00t we are ready. okay a few things might require redundancy because some fanatics for example refuse to allow flash (*cough* apple), so then you can make it choose between flash and html5 for example. but that is just way more logical to do than making an app for everything, with added risk the appstores want money (you pay for eve, evegate is a part of eve, so effectively you pay for evegate and they want part of that for being in the appstore).similar you want an eve jukebox app. why would you possibly want to make an app for that? just release the freaking mp3s, or again make it a site that plays them.in other words: i dont see a reason why they should make 5 different apps to do the same thing (one for each os), when you can also just make evegate scale better on mobile phones (i honestly have no idea how it scales right now, if it allready scales well i really dont see the issue)."
"you need quite a lot of training to get into app development, and unless they already got someone who's been doing it (not likely) then it would keep devs from implementing feature x.not supported."
"better idea;perform an analysis of the apps that have been developed already and just pay the developers of the existing applications a wadge of cash then put a ccp badge on it."
"fine, i'll get in a cane and you find me some 8 t1 frigs to kill. surely they'll jump at the opportunity for easy gank?i don't mind losing a cane, it's cheap enough. where do we do this?"
"i recommend checking out the fw areas for frig blobs.-liang"
"the chance of encountering a blob of exactly 8 t1 frigs is very low.i will concede that i was mistaken about cane using only 1 neut. i just tend to have cloaks on my ships to bypass gate camps with mwd+cloak trick"
"it's true. i'll see if i can scare up exactly 8 t1 frig pilots for you. i promise it will be very amusing for you if i can. :)-liang"
"i guess it also depends on you definition of 'blob' i assume since there are so many generalizations in this thread that 'blob' ment a 5 to 1 ratio that seems to be the common perception. one of the solutions to the better composed gang it to bring superior numbers aka 'blob'wasn't trying to say there were 100% accurate, just more than you guys are giving them credit for, i do agree tht they don't tell the entire storyso let me get this strait, killmails encourage blobbing because people don't want to lose and they don't want other people to know they have lost, but those same people don't even post there losses in the first place.i'll let you think about thatthe fact that your responce is exactly what i had hoped for leads me to believe that you play the game precisely how i thought you would, not that there is anything wrong with how you playby the way, i don't think that killmails are perfect, they are far from it, infact if you presented any sort of rational arguement as to why they need to be removed or atleast changed then maybe people would actually listen, but this whole \"killmails need to be removed because they are the only reason people blob and use e-war\" it total bull**** and only makes you sound like you lost some ships to a pirate blob who then made fun of you because of a fail fit"
"funny - one of the counters to the blob is to bring a better composed fleet. zomg.let's see:- joe thinks he's awesome at pvp- joe doesn't like to lose, so he blobs- joe gets lots on lots of killmails- joe actually loses a ship and doesn't post the loss to his killboard.... yeah, what's the contradiction there? it's exactly what i expect from killmail *****s, and it's a very normal example of why killboards are a ****ty way to evaluate someone's pvp skill.no, they wouldn't. people are killmail *****s and like to be able to wave their epeen about.sigh. let's go over this one more time:- killmails are a terrible metric for measuring someone's pvp skill for a huge variety of reasons. those reasons aren't going to go away by \"improving\" them.- killmails provide entirely too much intel about what you fly, who you fly with, and where you fly.- lossmails provide incentives to not pvp and not risk failure. that is always bad.- killmail *****s tend towards blobbing and getting on as many killmails as possible (which actually damages the fleet because it doesn't perform as well as it should)- killmail *****s tend towards being elitist asshats that constantly wave their pathetic epeens in everyone's direction. (this is the biggest reason i want killmails to die).-liang"
"in this case you have my frigate, i will say though an armor cane will tear alot of tech 1 frigs a new one, if the frigs start is scram range of a shield fit it could go either way. edit. i am not against killmails, i like seeing them show on my board and as far as im aware i dont blob"
"whether they are a good or bad metric is a matter of opinion. as long as killmail data represents the facts (no fake mails), it is real data that can be used in logical manner.any factual data is better than no data at all.you can choose to ignore it, no problem there. but you can't choose for other people to ignore killmails - by denying people access to facts."
"a couple of comments:- not all factual data is good data to be disseminated. the intel (who, what, when, where) provided by killmails is a perfect example of this.- while the data can be used in a logical and useful manner, it most often is not used in this manner.-liang"
"do you post a killmail as soon as you get it?"
"in most good corps and alliances, people don't need to post their mails, they are automatically retrieved by api.the fact that ccp added that api suggests they don't have anything against killmails, don't plan to scale them down in any way.and i'm 99% sure that ccp would not remove killmails. they understand game design, they understand the importance of score keeping in games."
"there are many ways to keep score without the negative aspects of killmails.-liang"
"tell us about them"
"funny, i thought that the way to counter a blob was to eliminate killmailsif no one even posts their loss mails then why would there be a massive need to blob because of loss mails ok, you are most likely right about thatok, so you are ****ed that your pvp skills are not being respected because killmails don't show everything about every engagements, and you don't like killmail *****s, but you still fail to provide a rational reason to completely eliminate the only source of pvp record keeping that we have in eve, yes that sounds reasonable."
"you might want to get your dictionary examined.because that person doesn't have to post their loss mails for them to get posted.it's much less about people respecting my pvp skill, and much more about inappropriate use of information.-lianged:read the thread."
"i had hoped that you would see the sarcasm in that postthis is much better, a tangable thought and not some mythical problem that only exists in your head.i'm guessing that information is location and fitting of your ships, how about keeping killmails and just not giving a location and only showing whats drops, wouldn't it have be better to propose something like that instead of saying 'get rid of killmails because they cause blobshowever if you still believe that killmails are the root of all the blobbing/e-war whorage then we still have a long way to go"
"nobody has claimed that killmails are the only reason for blobbing."
"by eliminating the source of the problem wouldn't you be eliminating the problem all together"
"it was dramatic flair. killmails do negatively effect pvp as a whole, that is undeniable."
"ok what you are saying is that we've misinterpreted your dramatic 'killmails are the root of everything bad in pvp so getting rid of them is the cure' posts. could it also be true then that you are misinterpreting how the majority of players actually veiw killboards.i believe that killboards/killmails actually help to motivate people to get out and strive to be the best at their given trade, and that without any kind of ranking system (however flawed it may be) that people wouldn't have the same drive to be the best because no matter how hard they worked there would never be anything to show for it.eve is a game, so is, baseball, football, futball, hockey, tennis, basketball... what do they all have in common ? if you guessed, a ranking system of some sort congratulations. i dare you to find one of those ranking systems that doesn't have any flaws.my point is, eliminating our only ranking system is not going to make competition any better, infact it may even make it worse"
"they post themselves my corps board has the whole api thing, as does battleclinic.i like seeing them on there though so i have a record of things i forgot to fraps. im terrible at remembering to press record."
"same here, it's actually not every time i post my kill and lossmails, as i've let that job be done by syndication, and clever use of the api. the api calls you can do, as a ceo/director of a pirate corp, makes the actual data extracted true, we trust the 3rd party sites to represent this data in a meaningful way. again...trust. the removal of killmails, would also close down quite a few 3rd party fansites and out of game resources which i think is bad as you'd effectively close down a small-ish subculture in eve...those that work with development of said resources."
"this bad sugestion coz ur mum."
"he asks for how people can be measured for *pvp prowess* in an objective way and you point out chribba?? chribba is certainly well known and respected but i would think he would agree its not for pvp.i do not know sir molle for pvp prowess. i know him for politicking in eve. he may be a very good pvper he may not but he is not known to me as a good pilot. maybe he made a name for himself back in the day but they did not have killmails so his former glory is lost. if only they had killmails sooner. istvaan shogatsu, isnt he famous for doing scams? i have no clue if he is any good at pvp. as for the rest, i never heard of them. but you are clearly mixing up fame due to politics, goodwill and other things and fame due to being a very good pvper. look at the players that do well in the alliance tournament. you will likely see they rank pretty well on battleclinic. again im not saying this ranking is perfect but does give you a rough guide. and you can set up killboards to automatically pull your kills from your api. if someone does not do this then yeah sure, i question whether they are posting all their losses. but if they do this then you have all their losses, but you wont necessarily get all their kills though. you can also fraps but without killmails you dont know if all those ships going down were horribly fail fitoh and about the 8 frig v. bc im in fw so my solo bcs often have 2 webs. 8 t1 frigates would have a tough time<U+F04A> if i were in a shield cane i would say the frigates would win. i know that if a frigate gets under my 425s in a rupture with 2 tracking enhancers they just need to orbit at 500 and i cant hit them. plus although you can neut the frigates if one has a nos you may have some serious problems. even if you kill their cap you wont be able to pulse the mwd (because the others will still likely have you scrammed and likely at least 3 will have webs.) to get decent transversal. i would think 8 frigates will hold the field against a shield cane and it might indeed be a slaughter."
"not supported"
"supported , they contribute nothing to the game"
"you don't know who tank ceo is? or ginger magician?the point i am making is people will get a reputation if they deserve one. dark rising, for example, has a reputation for hotdropping good fights they aren't necessarily losing. dragoons have a reputation for dishonoring 1v1s. sard caid has a reputation for being impossible to kill.none of those reputations come from a killboard. nobody memorable is ever memorable because of a killboard. but that doesn't stop people from trying to become known for their killboard, which is the problem. the problem isn't that killmails are a record and testament that a fight happened, but there are better ways to go about it."
"and how exactly was the evidence of the guiding hand social clubs killing of their targets prized ship verified?how do we know that people dishonor 1v1s? because of killmail evidence. otherwise it's simply hearsay. how do we verify that a group likes to hotdrop? killmail evidence. otherwise it's simply hearsay.you continue to ignore the actual request though which was to provide an objective metric to measure a pilots pvp prowess. the fact that many of us have never heard of some of the people you mentioned shows just how poor such a measure actually is. not everyone has played this game from beta and paid attention to every single article written or chest beating post made to c&p or coad. you were asked to provide (actually liang was asked to provide and failed to do so as well) and objective metric through which pvp prowess could be measured. instead you provided a list of famous/infamous people who for the most part aren't actually famous/infamous for pvp prowess.i didn't ask for a metric of whether someone is trusted or a successful scammer or alliance leader. i asked for a metric to measure a pilots pvp performance. specifically a measurable, objective and meaningful one in the context of eve.you have failed to do so. your attempt to misdirect have been noted and soundly thrashed. you claim that \"the problem isn't that killmails are a record and testament that a fight happened, but there are better ways to go about it.\" but don't actually bother to mention what that better way would be.hearsay isn't a better way particularly in a game where anonymity is as common as it is in eve where not only do you have the anonymity of the internet to contend with but also of alts and sockpuppets. \"flying with them\" isn't particularly effective particularly if you are trying to screen many applicants and have limited time.\"reputation\" doesn't work because the game is simply too vast for most people to have any reputation at all much less a positive or negative one. plus once again it's all hearsay and we all know that no one would ever exaggerate the flaws of their enemies.hell this idea is so bad that ephemeron and i are on the same side of the debate. that takes some serious suckage to make that happen.so far all i've seen from the proponents of this idea are groundless assertions that are not backed up by any facts. a refusal to actually rebut any arguments given by your opposition. and a complete lack of ability to differentiate between what is an objective fact and what is an opinion.killmals (assuming they are api verified) are statistical facts. a fight took place at this time between these parties with this result. those facts may be able to be interpreted in different ways and those statistics can be used in a variety of manners some more effective than others but they remain facts.they aren't perfect but then again no statistical sampling is perfect any metric will have some level of confidence associated with it. and generally the larger the sample size the higher the level of confidence since outliers tend to get beaten down to a statistical mean.as i've said repeatedly and neither you or liang have managed to refute. killmails are not only the best objective measure of a pilots pvp prowess they are the only objective measure of a pilots pvp prowess."
"screenshots i'm sure. i don't know if killmails existed back then.how do you prove that it was dishonored with rr? killmails don't do that.so are pilots who lost a fight, but were able to disengage? why not make killmails for all fights, explosion or not? observation, as i've said, is the only one that actually matters.or just how big eve actually is? there is no reason the average pilot should know who anyone in the top 10 of any killboard is. i'm versed in eve history and it isn't found on a killboard.i did provide one. battle reports.you ignored the pvp part of the list entirely.except, i did. battle reports.anonymity is better than engineered notoriety.your recruitment practices or lack thereof are your problem.yet, you want everyone to have some kind of reputation-o-meter.that could be said of the counter argument as well. the entire subject is subjective.except for the inaccuracies. of which there are many.so your argument is that killboards should have an acceptable margin of error? i thought this was about accuracy?and that isn't a problem in your eyes?"
"i already told you that aggregate killmail statistics distributed via api would be fine.the most famous pvpers are not famous because of their killmails; but because of fraps.the funny thing is that it doesn't provide those facts - even if the killmail is 100% genuine. they are not. and if they were, there are still better ways.-liang"
"okay, so a pvp video showing a faction/deadspace fit tengu killing 3 crappily fit t1 battleships on a video makes the tengu pilot awesome and famous? a video showing us a guy killing other guyes, is not by any length of imagination a better or worse indicator than a simple killmail of pilot skill. it doesn't reveal anything about the victim.i'd be fine with anynomous killmails, aslong as i can peep at what items i just blew up tbh. atleast for me, and being in a pirate corp much jokes are had about all the hilarious fits we kill and the rage when we discover the loot fairy abandoned us. it's just fun for me tbh, and you'd be taking away something which i enjoy chatting about in eve. each to his own i guess. but i'd be more worried about what would happen to much of the comunity which has based itself off this system, like battleclinic and eve service corp. real communities. commoner out."
"awesome? no. famous? yes. notably, killmails don't provide any more information.but, it shows far more about what actually happened.yeah, i'm fine with that.-liang"
"once again you keep talking about fame. i don't give a rats ass about fame. someone could be a famous pvper and be friggin cluesless for all i know if they frap only their wins and ignore their losses. what should we all role around frapping every friggin fight we're in so we can present something of value to a recruiter for the corp we want to join?that's just stupid.what exactly about what i said about an api verified killmail being a fact was wrong? it tells you the place. that's a fact of the engagement. it tells you the involved parties who shot who, who ecmed who, who pointed whom. those are facts. are there things it doesn't tell you? duh of course but that doesn't change the fact that things it does tell you are accurate. any inaccuracies are generally due to fake killmails. note i didn't say anything about the amounts of damage done or taken which is sometimes inaccurate. it doesn't tell you things like was the target engaged and damaged on the other side of a gate. but what i described as things that are facts still remain facts. direct observation is by default subjective not objective. that doesn't mean that it doesn't have value but it does not qualify as being an objective metric.your knowledge of eve history is also irrelevant to the discussion. battle reports are subjective. everyone puts their own spin on them and will try to make themselves look as best they can as such they are crappy metric and fail to qualify to match the criteria i laid out of being measurable and objective. add in the fact that few people like to spend large amounts of times documenting their screw ups they end up being incomplete as well.like i've said already i'm not talking about fame or noteriety. i don't care about reputations. i nor anyone else arguing against you has brought fame or reputation up at all. what we've said over and over again is that killboards are the only objective measure of a pilots pvp prowess. no one ever claimed that you could tell if someone was an asshat or a cool dude or a great alliance leader or a great fc or a good scout or a great industrialist. only that you can get a general idea that someone with good killboard stats is at least competent as pvper.as to the ones who are famous for frapping. i know willl adama pretty well the two of us have spared many times on the rvb boards and he's one of those famous f****rs. but you know what he's got a good killboard history. if you know where to look you can see the kills he fraps on the killboard (i know i was a few of them) but you know what? his fraps didn't cover every engagement. for example he showed one between himself and i were he managed to get away he didn't show a fight where i killed him nor one where he killed me. because his video's aren't about documenting all his pvp activity but rather to give a sample for the sake of fun. like i said though he's got the killboard to prove that he's not some jerk off just frapping his successes. seriously you two are scrapping the bottom of the barrel for arguments here. you're forum-fu is weak and you're flailing about at strawmen while i laugh at you and decimate your \"arguments\"first you tried to lay every flaw you see with pvp a the feet of the killmail system then when that nonsense if completely debunked you try to shift to strawman claims about chribba and scammers.you've completely confused the differences between subjective and objective as well as fact and opinion. you've failed to offer any viable argument to refute my assertion that killmails are the only objective measure of a pilots pvp prowess. further neither of you have been willing to put up any actual evidence that you are competent enough pvpers to judge whether killboards are an effective metric. like i said earlier, anyone can regurgitate crap they read and pretend they have a clue. so i don't give that much credit to forum warrioring without some external evidence of competence."
"the funny thing is that you are personally dead set against a rational conversation. you refuse to evaluate alternatives and continue to regurgitate the same mindless crap that has already been dismissed. you rant about what the current situation is right now instead of examining how it could be, or ways to address the negative side effects of killmails. your contribution to this discussion has been nothing shy of trollish, and i suspect your entire contribution to the eve community is the same.good day to you, sir.-liang"
"you haven't offered a single reasonable alternative.all you've done is make some unsupported assertions, accuse everyone who views killmails and killboards as a bunch of killmail *****s.you haven't actually established any negative effects of killmails.if you wanted to talk about ways to make the killmail system more accurate i'm all for that but this nonsense of claiming that it creates ills that it doesn't is just that, nonsense.talk about trolling."
"no. op must die. doun't touch killamils. improbe them, rework them, but don;t you dare kill them."
"oh really?oh really?also, i'm really confused. you seem to be addressing me and valdore as the same person. stop that.-liang"
"are you who are in favor of getting rid of killmails of the generation that grew up being told that winning and keeping score is bad? i'm thinking so. stats are kept in battles. assets, monetarily, and body count. factscore is kept for games. fact. if your ball team sucked and got stomped you didn't work hard enough. man up shirley 'cuz you lost.you want an argument for killboards? ok, how about this. perhaps the fight was close. perhaps one of your targets had a hero tank. killmails let you see the fit. they let you see why perhaps something worked well or why something failed hard. speaking of fits, km may give you an idea that you hadn't thought of before in a fit. killmails can also let you see how much isk you lost or killed. record keeping, if you will. what's wrong with that? not a ****ing thing, that's what. and yes, killmails let you have a \"trophy\" of victory. poor little johnny doesn't like that someone has a record sheet of his fail so ban killmails. i've never once heard anyone use the killboard as an excuse to go roaming or looking for a fight. people do it because it's fun. if a person is solely dependent on e-peen kkb stats then they're likely 13 years old and have more zits than sense. one week a kb might look like gold and the next you're embarrassed that it's there to be seen. but **** happens. not supported."
"amusingly, i've seen killboards used as an excuse not to go out roaming or fight.-liang"
"panic much? i don't have a problem with winning or losing for that matter, just the way your eve ball game lacks official scoring or rules that encourage less cowardly pvp."
"but that's like saying fat people blame cake for becoming fat. the solution isn't to ban cake. it's to start eating responsibly.if some corps use killboards as excuse not to fight, explain to those corps why they are wrong and tell them to seek professional help."
"shamans. are. fine.learn. to. play."
"hmph... i strongly disagree when people say 'destroyers are a bad pvp ship' or 'destroyers are nerfed'.granted, they are a typical choice for newer players after a frigate, due to cost and sp requirements. although that is the case, they are almost completely wrongly identified as being a worse ship class, and, what i disagree with most, the fact that they should be boosted, or in even more influential symantics, fixed.although i hardly know about minmatar, amarr, and caldari destroyers, i do know that the catalyst is an excellent ship when flown right, against even large cruiser fleets. it is designed as being an anti-frigate gunboat, and it does that job exceedingly. i've flown with a pro catalyst pilot, and during a deadspace he was consistently killing frigates and light cruisers faster than i could target them in my thorax.alas, hardly anybody flies them right anymore. the ship hasn't been nerfed. the pilots have.i'm going to get a actual destroyer pilot to write an article about it in the ships 'n fittings section, and link it all for you to see, and to learn.i hope ccp knows that still."
"can't really speak to pvp, but i've been doing ok knocking off sansha frigs with my catalyst.they are one-shottable by many cruisers, though, and this really limits them in what i think their planned role was (anti tackle & anti drone in fleet fights). as long as you remember that it is neither a big frigate or a small cruiser, they deliver good bang for your buck. if anything, maybe a slight sig radius reduction and perhaps adjust pg a little upwards."
"this is where proper flight comes into play. i'm still awaiting my corp's catalyst pilot to write a proper flying guide, (who flies an eris at incursions taking down frigates, and took all aggro once and didn't get popped), so you can see how to fly one and not get killed."
"i would absolutely love to see the option to change the background color of the next gate enroute to your set destination. i know that the gate icon is yellow but at times it's impossible to see."
"it could \"accidentally\" happen!"
"oh heck yes, i would love to see the tears on the forums if this happens."
"yes yes yes yes. ccp please do this"
"ho double yes !"
"nice to see such strong support for the idea. and yes, as a gallente i have no problem seeing a caldari system go to hell (especially one which most players depend on).also, can you imagine the amount of wrecks to be found there should such a thing \"accidentally\" happen? oh it would be salvager's galore!ps: i got a strange feeling that everyone in high-sec would come after me for suggesting the idea should it ever happen."
"sansha don't gate camp in high sec.. jita has got no belts nor agents. effect of incursions on trade/haul/manufacturing = zero.might be the only system where incursions last for a full week though, as the lag to fight in them would be bad, esp on weekends."
"you just had to ruin it for everyone. thank you for destroying my hopes and dreams."
"hell ye"
"as i have an alt in jita, and have been in systems where an incursion is active, i can say it would do virtually nothing to harm jita or the activity there. it sure would not interfere with me. no sanshas at the station or gates in high sec. people will just carry on as usual.in fact incursions seem to create quite a bit of trade activity. this would actually be an opportunity for profit.so, let it happen, but no reason to target it specifically."
"thumbs upthumbs upthumbs upthumbs upthumbs upthumbs upthumbs upthumbs upthumbs upthumbs upthumbs up"
"supporting my own topic (durr)"
"just like valve steam games allow to open a bug from within the game and to even capture a screenshot to attach to it.i cba to switch to the desktop from eve or use the crappy ingame browser to log into eve bug report and then addd details switching between the game and the browser.make it easier in order to get more bug reports because currently i cba reporting them the awkard way."
"\"cheating refers to the overt or covert breaking of rules to gain advantage in a competitive situation.\" from wikidediausing bots and macros is cheating and a violation of the eula, plain and simple!in my opinion the problem with players cheating is not up to the players to solve, it's ccp's problem to solve. what we can do is to keep telling ccp that we don't like there way of handling the problem and demand that they fix it. whine so much about it that they are forced to take action. being silent and/or accept that cheating is part of the game and even defend it in whatever way will slowly but surely drive players away from the game. so however clever solutions you can come up with to solve this problem will all be meaninless until ccp actually decides that cheating is bad for the game and does something about it."
"yeah, it is annoying."
"i second this motion..........."
"not supported, and add silent hill zombies too. :d"
"i want dust514 to have silent hill mode with sanshas zombies coming after you ;3"
"erm..would i like to design my own ships? yes.is it easy to implement? nodo we need it? not reallywe can;t balance eve the few ships we have. this would kill eve"
"first off, ccp had good icons for singniatures, easilly distinguishable, and clear.now they use same icons ans wrecks whave (why?). even i find it difficult to see against a dark background. for a colorblind this must be horrible. can we have it customisable??? full support. ccp: why fix what is not broken?"
"i finished creating my new avatar and like in old creator i'm slightly disappointed about results. why?in old creator i made nice avatar which looked great on big picture, but when i entered game, little icon with my face in chat window appeared to be completely different and looking just tragic!!!now we have new creator and the problem is just the same. on big picture avatar looks awesome, and in little icon in chat window situation can still be tragic!!! and there is no way to check, how my avatar will be looking in this little picture earlier, than when i login to gameproblem is, that this little icon, is my real in game picture, because 99% of time other players looking on this little picture of my character!!!other thing witch came into my mind during recreating my new avatar is this. there is 4 shots of character in creator when u creating it.why can't they be all used???when i first time logged, after recreating my new avatar, i was seen in chat list and local as old avatar and in chat window as new one and it was awesome. same face in two different shots if there is problem to manage more than one shot of character in one game session, there shouldn't be a problem to load one different shot every next logging.this way we have 4 pictures of our one avatar. simple and greate!!! isn't it???"
"note: this thread somehow got duplicated and one moved to features and ideas, both have been blocked so there was a hiccup on my part and also on ccp's. therefore here is an unlocked thread since it was locked in error.hi,i am sure i am not the only person tired of all the unimaginative and peurile trolls and whiners on the forums. since moderators either sometimes have a hard time determining genuine trolls and timewasters or simply do not want to hand out bans to paying customers (i appreciate this is understandable) i propose a simple fix to this solution:allow players to 'moderate' what they see on the forums. to this end there are a couple of features that would greatly benefit the community as a whole...1. add colour standings to characters and corporations. similar in style to in game perhaps although acting independently from in game standings. this would let us see quickly if a thread comes from a dodgy source.2. ability to block certain individuals and corporations not only from showing up for you but also ideally to stop them from posting in threads of your creation.number 2 especially would go far to reduce the timewasters on these forums. note: i am not suggesting that we have moderation over players to the level that it blocks them from everyone, just a bit of control over what we ourselves see. with this power available to us it may deter some of the horrible posters we see cluttering up good discussions.regards.bongo debbie."
"no.but csm or some other volunteers could at least moderate assembly hall and other places where you're not supposed to post unfinished ideas like \"remove killboards\" \"boost gallente\" \"boost my guns\" \"nerf suiciding\". these don't really belong here. \"hey i got idea when i woke up and i am going to post it on assembly hall\".i'm not sure if even this thread is worth supporting or voting whatever."
"most of those ideas, unfocused as they are, represent a significant concern for a large portion of the playerbase. we are asking for a fix and whilst we might not be able to agree on a way forward we at least want an open discussion on how to best achieve it. moving a discussion like that to the assembly hall from features and ideas merely represents an escalation request.pure troll posts should, of course, be moderated (and they are)"
"wrong"
"qed"
"supporting blocking op from further posting."
"if trolls were really moderated, all of my topics would lose a lot of posts."
"can of goons."
"please enact this. i can't wait to get a 1,500 man gang together to mass-flag people we don't like so that they can never post again."
"the colouration will probably become reality at some point when they merge the forums into eve gate .. which has standing lists.moderation by users on the other hand, are you completely bonkers? do what was possible with the grease monkey add-on for firefox and allow people to ignore others just as if they were on a block list. out of sight, out of mind. but from there to preventing people from speaking .. orwell would be so proud of you"
"^^ this.censorship is a dangerous tool. post something against suicide ganking, for example, and every twelve-year-old and their lolz buddies are going to vote to have you blacklisted.if you don't like an idea, come up with a better one yourself; or simple ignore the idea; or vote 'nay' on the idea.not supported."
"supported"
"bamp."
"this results in more hilarity when you focus on another object and your own ship comes up in neutral brackets for an ohnosecond."
"tired of repackaging to sell at jita? tired of repackaging to reprocess?it's time for a \"repackage all\" context menu option ... we have sort all, and stack all...support \"repackage all\" please!"
"what have you been smoking!? just press ctrl-a, right-click, and reprocess! i've never had the need to repackage anything prior to reprocessing.not supported for lack of need."
"find some friends and gank/pod him repetedly? -it's quite easy to find scum, all you have to do is give him his own medecine."
"my only aguement is its not worth the time to \"chase\" an alt because when it happens -the alt logs off and thats the end of it.but if you had kill rights back for 'days' then when that alt logs back on - you dont have to go about urself and start lowing ur sec to gank back.plus - you have to 'wait' for an alt to log back in....if your mining again - you have to 'wait' for them to shoot you b4 u can shoot at them. it would be nicer if you can shoot first for once and not get blown up by concord.concord is protecting 'bad people' in hs. ty for your replies.cheers'"
"i am tired of losing the same ship over and over to the crap logoff bug. never leaving space is not a sweet feature. i am not sure why this isn't fixed."
"it's a \"feature\" just like logoffiski, working as intended. what they need to fix is gms reimbursing your ship, so you don't lose the same ship over and over again."
"i propose that ccp advertises on video websites such as hulu, youtube, etc. especially hulu, as they use video adverts. i think it would be awesome to be watching something tagged as sci-fi and have the incursion ad. it would certainly peak my interest in eve online. i could click the video and blam, there i am creating a trial account, and downloading the client for a highly-awarded mmo"
"human beings will go from commodities to modules?warhammer 40k called, he wants his grimdark back. no seriously, i'd rather completely ignore this aspect of the fluff.but a game where you got to manage a spaceship and its crew? i'd like that. but there's no place in eve for this."
"ship balancing is a nightmare because there appears to be no rhyme or reason to who tackles the task of curating game balance. it needs a permanent team of dare i say it, specialists (hardcore d&d statisticians or something scary like that), who are accountable - or at least should thoroughly explain themselves on issues they tackle - to the playerbase/csm.i hate the module implementation of crews, it's a horrible idea.i would much prefer for crew experience to be based somewhat off something like the standings system where certain actions would introduce modifiers for your ship. this wouldn't add server load as it would simply be an additional calculation performed off a killmail - yes it would require more robust killmail generation but that's no bad thing, either.this allows you to control how quickly your crew becomes more experienced based on the ship type - frigates would level up fairly fast, whereas capitals would have to see huge amounts of combat and usage to become experienced.to reiterate - killing npc ships would not result in an experience modifier this completely eliminates concerns about 'elite afk dominixes' becoming fotm. additionally the crew experience modifier would only affect ship functions by an extra 5-10% or so. selling your ship would result in its crew being broken up and returned to rookie statusccp's nonsensical statement about afking confuses me. the only person on a killmail whilst afk is routinely the one that got killed.it encourages pvp activity and therefore isk sinks, it discourages pve activity for anything more than isk generation and it will make people think twice before throwing their crack-crewed ships away on a whim."
"i don't think it's up to the players to solve the problem with other players cheating and breaking the eula, it's up to ccp. so however clever solutions you come up with solving the problem it will do nothing if ccp keeps allowing it. instead let ccp know that we think cheating is bad and that it makes the game less fun to play.so to ccp: cheating is bad for the game, ok? please fix...."
"anyone got an update on this?"
"incarna isn't going to destroy the space portion of the game. it's just another thing to do that's all. if you wanna pvp, mine, or whatever do it. i believe ccp has said many time that incarna won't change the core game play experience. it will be ok everyone."
"if i want to learn rogue i can play city of heroes or wow."
"i can confirm that. everytime there's talk of \"it rapage\" he gets all excited and starts ramming my ship in the rear. it's very uncomfortable, for everyone present."
"i was going to wait until the meeting, but as csm are putting their opinions on the table already, i will post a summary of my post in the csm internal forumccp have said that lark can run and if he decides to do so many people will use the insider trading to discredit his campaign. he'll just have to deal with it."
"it may just be me, and dv feel free to correct me if i'm wrong, but i get the feeling that lark is collateral damage on this one."
"i am a tad more blunt sir.for those not able to read between the lines.is this more directed towards lark or perhaps ankh as hershel suspects.thing is that you have set an air asif you are using the csm for certain personal agenda's and this is a bad thing. a very bad thing."
"larkonis is exactly the reason that item was put on the agenda, any other consideration is accidental."
"the fortunate thing with lark is that the information on what he did is publicly available and therefore we can make up our own minds as to whether we want to support him again.what this conversation does bring up is the issues that might come about when someone whose actions have been buried wants to run, though i'm guessing those would be seen as more serious infractions that would mean ccp chose to permanently ban that individual from running for the csm.i have to say that if this is a personal attack on lark then i'm horrified that any csm member would think that was an appropriate use of their power. dv can you explain your reasons for this proposal since i think the playerbase now deserve a clear explanation of your motives so that we can be informed as how you intend to use your position within the csm next time if you get in."
"these are really 3 different arguments. i altered you quote to make this clear. the first argument seems to be that csm lack authority to make a recommendation on this issue. but its sort of poorly worded. csm does not make *any* decisions on the game at all. they merely *recommend* proposals. if you mean to say it is not the job of the csm to *recommend* who should be eligible to run. then i disagree. i think csm is fully within their rights to make any recommendations they want regarding any aspect of the game. what if it appeared ccp was considering that *only* players who work for ccp are going to be eligible to run for csm, thus pretty much defeating the whole idea? couldnt csm recommend that they not implement this? sure they could. csm could also make recommendations about whether someone would be ineligible to run again after serving a certain number or terms etc. your second argument is not whether you *can* vote on this type of proposal but rather whether you *should*. csm does not need to address every issue they have the power to address. this is a argument (a good one i might add) that csm should not start taking votes on these matters unless there is a very good reason. but it is not saying you cant do it. i am not sure if there is a procedure as to what csm will and will not vote on. the third argument is just a simple but good argument why the proposal should be voted down. it has nothing to do with csms authority but instead addresses the merits of the proposal.i think this clarification is important because i have seen this authority issue come up before and cloud issues. for example mazz had a proposal that ccp employees play eve. this was apparently rejected in part because some on csm thought they had no authority to make this recommendation. i have no idea why they thought that. certainly no document was provided to support the claim that csm has a limited scope as to what they can recommend. i think the csms scope of authority as to what they can recommend is very large. imo csm members shouldnt punt issues due to unsubstantiated claims that it is not within the scope of their job."
"i should have been more specific. \"it is not the job of the csm to decide if an individual is eligible to run\". yes csm can and do make recommendations about the csm process (in fact the requirement to supply a campaign message was one of them), however now is not the appropriate time to attempt to change parts of the election application process. at the end of the day ccp reserve the right to exclude a candidate's application.please note that only two people have left csm due to nda issues. one publicly apologised, resigned and was told by ccp that he could apply again in future. the other was removed and afaik hasn't been allowed to run again. i believe ccp should continue making case by case decisions based on the severity of the infraction rather than a blanket ban."
"no, suicide ganking is not a hack, it's a feature. and entirely working as intended, which is to make elite eve players feel superior to wow's players."
"i would like to lend my support to this post.i don't want to have to look at people who aren't as good looking as me."
"minutes in the usual placeseve wiki | csm database"
"originaly, i'd thought this original: pos rebuildturns out i was wrong. i'd never noticed any such thread here, on the forums; or bothered to take a look back in history, with the search bar. i've just though of an original idea; that happens to be much like others. as it is sort of a second run, at the same thing; i'll post it here, as reference to my own idea, how it should be done. ..and support this thread.ultimately, i'd like to see pos's get a major mechanics upgrade; a new way of controlling and managing them. some idea of how that could be accomplished; may be found in the thread i posted, as well as my idea's for how to develop a modular pos. personally, i don't want to see some square, chunky thing; with a bunch of big bay doors. it actually reminded me, of something from an old rts game, or something; which i only half remember testing, at one time, when i saw the pdf file earlier. ..and not much different; from the picture i saw somewhere around here. lets try for a cross between a pos, and a station; as they currently exist in game now, within reason. obviously, there are some limitations to that; but, not as many as you might think.take my single module, with auto-skinning of textures, one step further; and you've got modules that auto-architect, based on the tower they are connected too. that would require some additional planning perhaps; as you would require both a modular construction package, and some additional materials, based on your pos.just a thought anyway.preferred:1. new management and control options; preferably in a system, like i have described.2. keeping with history. lets not change the overall function of pos too much. i don't believe they should allow station like docking; or enable repairs without cost. a station module, which functioned as a repair facility; using stored minerals, and the like, would be reasonable. but, how to dock at it?3. it has to look like it belongs; and unlike, it came from somewhere else. i'm sure ccp will be happy to oblige there; which makes me happy too./supported."
"supported."
"got my support for the issues!"
"i support any buff to bo but i would suggest the domi hull used for sin and mega hull used for maurader be switched. considering that domi is more pve and mega is more pvp. plus guns are way better for bo role than drones. main thing i would support would be allow covert clocking device on bo ships. for me the ability to warp while cloacked alone would make me more interested... or 50% price reduction. secondary i support extended jump range and abilities being brought in line with their t1 counterparts which are about 1/10th the price. all other buffs i would consider gravy.feffps c'mon ccp :)"
"they still need to be looked at."
"support. maybe while they're at it they could get rid of the rubberbanding that happens when you exit warp."
"graphic change!"
"yes"
"will not hurt to have a through check of the font and possibly find a slightly better one."
"disappointed cyno alt checking in. give my entire reason for existing some more eyecandy please."
"ccp please read this topic."
"i also want the old cyno back.the 'new' cyno effect just looks like the carebear variation of the old effect.the old cyno represented way more the might and strength and power of the ships coming through, while the new one makes you be disappointed about how small, helpless and just 'normal' your mighty capital is ....change it back pls, make us feel more evil again"
"bump"
"i'm not just a goon; i'm a goon who made a female avatar without trying to make her look like a supermodel."
"you should petition an gm because their exact answer is \"...blasters are intended to have the best tracking and dps at close range of all weapons...\" i will no quote the gm because has you know it's against the eula.the problem is that they don't work like is intended has you just said, and they are incapable to figure out this. don't ask me wy because has you, all i can say is that either they are blind either none of them has ever used or uses them."
"any news?"
"so far the devs don't even recognize there is a problem.they are looking at the game, but they should be looking at themselves. the devs have a problem, a personal problem that bleeds into bad game design."
"\"incursion 1.1.2 patch notesto be deployed on january 27, 2011***users can no longer proceed to the portrait screen without equipping a shirt beforehand.\"universe of eve turns to the universe for babies.it is sad."
"lol i suport the idea if you need to prove your age to unlock thsi content"
"i know i was caught by surprise when i found this was not possible. i fully support this. it seems a lot of people were not expecting this behavior the first time they tried it. forcing them to learn this the hard way is just an unneeded frustration."
"you forget there were two sides of that confrontation (well 3 really but one was under contract to one of the other parties) and nc still had to end their campaign even though they have that massive jb system that according to you and others supporting the idea of jb removal claim should have allowed them to operate in both theaters with impunity.instead they had to abandon their campaign then were forced to reclaim the systems they lost while trying to move their force back.sounds like everything is working perfectly fine in that regard.as far as being able to undermine the activities of small roaming gangs. so what? one would expect a large organized power block to be able to effectively deal with small time criminals trying to harass it's citizens.time and time again these whines such as this just come down to some malcontent being upset that their desired victims have ways to avoid being victims."
"imo, it will make eve worse, it will be less fun."
"it's not a matter of opinion, we have people who know first hand what eve is like without jb and with jblets conduct a poll among all the vets who been with this game since 2004 - is eve more fun now with jb or was it more fun before jb?sure, we expect that. but we expect that security to be achieved by pvp, by patrolling and hunting down the criminals. not bypassing it completely with safety of teleportation devices.you want security? fight for it"
"i believe the point would be that they already have. by gaining sovereignty that typically isn't gotten by flying out and planting a flag. what you are asking is that they surrender that bought and paid for security so that any random group of twits can roll in and upset their empires because they are bored. i believe it has been pointed out that those devices are not completely safe. now someone who wants to make it unsafe does have to commit some resources to doing so but considering the amount of resources that the defender had to commit to gain that \"teleport\" capability in the first place it's hardly unreasonable that those who try to threaten it must commit more resources and planning than just getting together a dozen bored friends to try and gank transports.it seems to me that your problem with jump bridges is that you can't take a small force of subcap ships and undermine an advantage that likely required a significant force of capital ships to gain in the first place.i'm sorry but david only beats goliath in fables."
"such a poll already exists here.-----------------------finnagain zero replies: 69"
"so you would have no problem whatsoever with restricting bridges to industrial type ships? or do you want to add some exceptions to that assessment?pfft, marines are nothing but gi's that are not hydrophobic. hardcore is parenting and elementary school educating!so a weeks worth of blobbing justifies perpetual security that is higher than that of high-sec? are you sure you want null to be that dull?pretty sure he is asking the same that i have been for a year or more. that null entities be required to actually use and police the space they call theirs.but with things as they are there is no need to patrol/police, if anyone contests something you have a few days to gather the 'da blob' - that is the extent of the sovereignty system. hardly inducive quality fights or any other worthwhile pew."
"there needs to be some balance between 12-hours-out-of-sync alliances repeatedly razing each other's infrastructure, versus long timers on infrastructure ensuring that all fights will end up as massive capital blobs.i agree with the idea though, that \"sovereignty\" should simply be a measure of how well the residents are defending their space."
"found a very good tool on dotlan, that can show you how many jump you would need if you optimized your route with jump bridges.dotlan jump plannersome examples:hed-gp --> 0oyz-g (the bottom of feyhtabolis)normal jumps: 39 +/- jumpsjump bridges: 7 jumpshed-gp --> 66-pm (this is as far out in omist you can get)normal jumps: 35 jumpsjump bridges: 10 jumpshed-gp --> c-pewn (bottom of esoteria)normal jumps: 40 jumpsjump bridges: 10 jumpshed-gp --> ge-8jvnormal jumps: 9 jumpsjump bridge: 1 jumphed-gp --> azn-d2normal jumps: 26 jumpsjump bridges: 6 jumpsthe number of jump anyone needs to do, to be able to form up for fleet will have a great impact on participation and the effect that entity has to defend itself."
"if regionally exclusive alliances are the desired format then yes, there has to be a time buffer to bridge the gap. not sure if the protectionist alliance is actually desired by the powers that be though before bridges you practically had to patrol the various pipes at regular intervals to keep normal traffic flowing, time spent ratting was often less than that spent keeping the paths clear.whatever is done to bridges, it has to be accompanied by significant boosts to null ability to achieve self-reliance when it comes to common mods/ships .. so a huge buff to the industrial side of things will be required."
"what still gets me is that most of the folks who want to use game mechanics to nerf playstyles they don't like seem unaware that the same process can be turned back on them. if, next year (or the year after, whatever) ccp decides that small gang combat isn't where their vision is, and it's large fleet battles that get column inches in the ny times, what's to stop them from trying to nerf small gang and boost large fleet? now, star gate activation time is directly proportional to the number of fleet members you have, decreasing with each member. individual ships will have to sit on a gate and not move, for an hour, if they want to jump out. and if they move or activate weapons, the timer restarts. and, why, this will even be \"good for pvp\", since it will increase all those ganks of small fleets/lone travelers who get pounced on and can't escape. it's only when your own ox is getting gored, i suppose, that some people are willing to see that ccp altering mechanics to cater to or harm a style of play isn't a very good system to endorse. trolling, in this thread?!?say it aint so?of course, i probably shouldn't have given you the benefit of the doubt. like when you respond to it being pointed out that changes which only effect sov holders are not evenhanded, unlike changes which effect absolutely anybody who uses jump gates in empire, and your response is \"so they're both even handed then.\" ah well, i tried. which would be somewhat deliberately missing the point in a discussion of whether or not players are allowed to created their own content or whether or not it's mediated by ccp's interdict in empire. the very fact that \"unprovoked aggression\" is met with lethal force, whose avoidance is an exploit, would speak to the difference between player-created content and player-mediated content. yes it would. if players didn't want to form alliances and only wanted to have 10 man roaming gangs, ever, and ccp wanted to try to force them into alliances, that'd be breaking sandbox play. the whole point is that the players create the content in the space that the empire don't hold. and that content is created, and directed, however the players want. build sand castles or kick them into someone's face, same difference. it is possible, i'm sure, to break sandbox play in any number of ways. the previously mentioned instant-teleport-to-jovian-arena-combat would be a great way. it's a very good argument, and you tacitly admit it rebuts your claims. alliances can project crushing force without jb's, they can inflict serious damage on a defender, even if the defender has a huge jb network. we know this, because it just happened. that groups may have to make choices to accomplish this is hardly noteworthy. all you're saying is that the sandbox is fine and we have choice of playstyles."
"i also said that any entity in eve can project their force anywhere in eve.but the amount of force is highly dependant on the numbers they have in said fleet.the need to jump 30 jumps vs 6 jumps will have an impact on the size of fleets. one thing is moving the actual fleet, another one is when all thoose members in fleet need to get to the staging area.so when an alliance is doing a cta, if you are getting 100 or 200 in fleet is influenced by how many jump they have to do to get there. it`s been like that since eve came up.sandboxeve has always been a sandbox, but ccp has always done changes/modifications within the game when they have felt a certain gamemechanic has been too widespread.- nano- nos- system scanner (removed due to new scan mechanics)- damps- aoe doomsday- motherships (remember when they couldnt be scrammed?)last time i checked, correct me if i`m wrong, the cost of having a jump bridge was 10 mil/day."
"hi, new to game and i've already had some problems with bots. the market one's are extremely annoying updating buy and sell orders instantly and to the exact same isk agrot.one way to deal with market bots is to buy 1 item off them and then check transactions to see player name. open a trade box with that player as trades can not be insta rejected, it seems to upset the macro's function.i was interested in playing eve to see the real player driven economy that is advertised but i'm disappointed to see that it's just a sham driven by bots and npc like any other single player games economy, of course there is human element but not nearly as much as advertised.i don't think i'll be updating my subscription but i'm not sure yet because eve is still a cool and unique game. it seems strange that ccp does little to prevent botters who play the game for free using isk'd plex but would rather see new subscribers leave the game.i think the best way to encourage ccp to take action is to make sure noobs are aware of the bot problem before they subscribe that way they can vote with their dollars which ccp will listen too.with a couple of new mmpog space games coming out ccp might be more motivated to take action. ccp might then take action against the botters just like the 'unholy rage' thing against evil real money botters.as for the claims bots are undetectable a quick look at other games detection methods including the online gambling world would reveal tons of ways of dealing with them."
"/thumbs upif you don't understand the immense problems with botting and how it lessens the player experience for every single legit player, you haven't put much thought to it. alternatively your a botter."
"i've never used bots or don't even understand them...butwhat about key binding, (is it the same?) can we use them or do we have them? i used them in other games and i liked them pretty much."
"i would really like to see ccp take some actions against them .."
"any keybinding that doesn't involve repeats or decision-making should be fine. for example, pressing f1, f2, f3, f4 from one keypress is not an issue. having something that drags whatever is in your cargo hold to your jetcan every three minutes is obviously violating the tos and spirit of the game."
"fyi, csm did bring up the bot issue. read the meeting minutes."
"supported but money is the bottom line so ccp will do nothing. they can't afford to lose 30%+ of their accounts with two other games still in development and eating up the revenue from eve.personally i just tell people not to bother playing eve if they ask about it. i explain 1) that there's no point in manufacturing due to so many maxed out chars in existance - and macro mining funding a lot of it; 2) 0.01 station games are mainly bots; 3) null sec alliances are mainly funded by botting (yeah i know about moons but this is for a newbie).if you want to do small scale (non-sov) pvp then that's do-able. haul crap around and sell it - yeah you can do that. you can even play 0.01 trade games but its not as easy as it once was due to the proliferation of bots.pretty much everything else though you will be competing with bots for resources/bounties and unless you also bot then you will lose the isk war, which in turn means you'll lose any real wars.been going on for a very very long time now though with nothing done except when it affected ccps revenue or put load on the server.the implied message from ccp is \"carry on botting\"."
"maybe the question should be \"are you prepared to accept a xx-yy% price hike on eve to cover their perceived losses if they get rid of all the bots?\""
"however at the same time without bots, both rmt and non-rmt, people have to get their isk somewhere else. since doing it the normal way like others apparently wasnt an option, the next possibility is selling plexes. more people selling plexes -> lower price of plexes -> more alts funded by plexes. then the question is: what is larger, the extra number of alts funded by the cheaper plexes or the loss of the macros. or version two: just get rid of the macros ffs."
"i think this is a factor. remember the last big stomp of bots, \"unholy rage\"? (which was almost 2 years ago). it had a big impact, for example, highsec macro miners virtually vanished for awhile. ccp did some big crow story about how much banning botters reduced node lag as well.why haven't we read stories by ccp of \"unhony rage ii, iii, and iv\"?simple: they haven't engaged botters seriously since unholy rage. why? ccp makes more money off botters than they do us. people operating bots (and i've seen it demonstrated where one pc can now run multiple bots) farm isk and pay for their game time in isk. this fuels plex demand which then induces people to buy them to sell.ccp (and other publishers) like to wax poetic about how buying in game currency from rmt sellers \"distorts and ruins the game\". yet, somehow, buying plex items from ccp and selling it on the market is \"good\". the fact of the matter is that everyone who buys isk, be it from purchasing plex items from ccp or buying from your friendly chicomm isk farmer is buying farmed isk most likely produced by bots!the plex item existing on the in game market purchasable via in game currency in virtual anonymity is the fuel that is powering the bots!ccp will not engage in widespread bot crackdowns like they did pre-plex because they know that it will harm their revenue. here is what they need to do:1. there needs to be a period where plex sales are suspended. what is in game and on the market can continue to sell, but they won't sell new ones.2. ccp needs to commit their gm staff in a period of anti-bot crackdown, on the scale of \"unholy rage\" or larger. repeat steps 1 and 2 as often as needed. 3. ccp needs to sue the publishers of bot software. there is precedent out there for such a lawsuit to win (ie: see the wowglider case, where blizzard successfully sued a bot maker)."
"ccp is not going to remove botters or their ill gotten gains. anyhow the only fair way to remove their ill gotten gains would be a complete wipe and restart of the eve universe, this will never happen.eve players will just have to play the game knowing that the market is a complete sham that is only partially player controlled. the eve market is as realistic as a market on a single player console rpg in the simple fact that items are generated by automated npc's and scripts.yes some items are player made, sold, ratted but only a small fraction. the majority of items particularly high value null sec generated items are from bots. they might as well have every item available in infinite amounts in every station at a set price, this is the way it's going anyway. ok a bit of an exaggeration but the foundation is correct."
"supported.at least start with a damn self check of the client. its not too hard for a program to check its own processes to detect injected code that shouldn't be there while the client is running.checking for a large variety of constantly evolving programs running on the users computer is a lot more difficult but the former should be in every mmo that has an economy at risk of rmt and macro / botting.other often suggested ideas can be more involved then you think and even if they worked, eliminating rmt is not possible. best case scenario will result in removing all bots and macro's however those will very quickly be replaced by real people farmers working from developing countries where wages are horribly low."
"they should be able to build into the client a block that only allows itself access to the server. also, considering that bot programs are advertised, why can't ccp acquire copies of them themselves and build simple detection into the client to make it exit the game if any of those programs are running.another option would be to have the client look for those programs on the pc when it launches, and if it detects them, delete them."
"not sure if its true but i read somewhere on these forums that ccp was reverse engineering some of the bot programs. highly improbable but who knows except them.don't think ccp would risk deleting anything from anyone's computer even if it was legal which it probably isn't, and scanning of hard disks causes a lot of consternation for a lot of people (microsoft got a crap-load of flak for it if i remember correctly)"
"no thumbs up as ccp did already post a devblog on this matter and the current csm discussed botting and possible countermeasures with ccp at the december summit.just because you don't like the answer to a question doesn't mean it wasn't answered.and asking the same question over and over and over again won't change the answer."
"you know, i'm getting quite annoyed with people around here accusing ccp of not wanting to get rid of bots for revenue reasons. for crying out loud, they are still cracking down on rmts, they allowed hulkageddon to flurish, and they started unholy rage. as for the plex, for some of you that don't remember, ccp created that system in order to draw people away from rmt sites. if that is not proof enough that ccp is concerned about the bots, then i don't know what is.and besides, they have limited resources to deal with bots on a individual level since much of their resources are still focused on the development of the game (not to mention the incoming incarna expansion).this means that it is up to us \"the capsuleers of new eden\" to take matters into our own hands. we will gather up our ganking ships, muster the largest fleets and begin an endless crusade against the macros. there will be tears, there will be wrecks, there will be hatemails, and the best part about it is that it's all legal. as for those of you who don't think this would have the slightest impact against macro users and their wallet, let me ask you this: how long do you think it will be before macro users run out of isk after they have to constantly replace their ganked mining ships? the immediate war against macros has now evolved into a war of attrition."
"in principle, supported. it makes no sense that the fofs hit an unarmed hostile structure instead of any of the npc cruisers showering you with hms. it would be nice to have t2 fof's too, but they must have some drawback as opposed to manually targeted missiles. occasionally, fof's handle npc's much quicker than manually targeting them, especially when you have many weak npcs due to the auto switching of targets. they can behave like a giant smartbomb, which i love when it happens, but it's too much."
"i agree; if a bug report can't get it fixed then to the csm with it!-liang"
"uhm, i think their actual purpose is to harden your ship against ecm..."
"they're like hull rep, they fail for their intended purpose."
"meh, there's ways around it such as looting and salavaging your wrecks as you go."
"then you are doing something wrong.pretty much the best investments i've ever made, got the racial sets on all my characters and it makes those falcon pilots cry bitter tears.especially love my falcon killer vagabond, gets them every single time"
"it doesn't matter how much you gimp your fitting you can apparently still run missions just fine, and without any risk. i can understand your point, but i think the idea of a ship that can run level 4 missions solo, avoid bubbles, and is unprobeable is op.i never even heard of unprobeable ships until t3 was introduced and those implants have been around for a lot longer. and it's not like the idea of probeable wrecks was introduced as a way to find unprobeable ships, i've only seen it mentioned in salvaging threads. it's just a side effect. if you want to be able to run missions in low/null then there needs to be an element of risk involved."
"agreed... provided it also nerfs the ability to probe out missions or makes it thrice as hard.reason being 95% of the probers out there are looking for ninja'ing stuff/ganks and not direct pvp combat.it's entirely driven to be \"steal your lootz and hope you shootz me\".and make the salvage probe very easy at that point... within the boundries of not being able to invade an active mission area.if the missions done.... have at it.... otherwise... no go."
"is this a function for noob probers??i want ccp spend time on more important stuff."
"ships shouldnt be unprobable anyway."
"anything in space should be probable."
"andi'm glad you guys actually spell it out like this, because i believe the support probeable wrecks is getting has never truly been about salvaging, but about the ulterior (or maybe not so ulterior) motive of having a way to find unprobeable mission runners.well, of course it's never mentioned like that! :) if people came out and said: \"we want probeable wrecks because we want to find those pesky, unprobeable tengu mission runners, so we can have our extra, easy, and juicy killmail,\" then people might object.if it were really about salvaging, people wouldn't object to wrecks only being probeable after the mission has been turned in. i can only hope ccp sees right thru the ploy."
"which one doesn't? even the ungated ones are technically ded space as far as i know, instanced space where special rules can be applied.probe-able wrecks in normal space is a phenomenal idea."
"if ungated mission space is deadspace too, then i got no problem with wrecks being probeable everywhere, but in deadspace. :) it would, indeed, give the salvaging profession a boost."
"i would support this proposal.it's hard enough trying to persaude people that it's possible to pve outside of hi-sec as it is without making any mission or plex site trivially probeable."
"for the record, in case it wasn't clear, under these conditions i'm totally okay with wrecks being probeable."
"a number of posters here may be getting confused with their support not tallying with their comments.the thread title is supporting this thread does not mean you support probeable wrecks.i feel that it is a nice idea, but it would make ganking mission runners even easier so needs to be approached with a lot of caution."
"i am up for ganking mission runners. also probable wrecks would be awesome because salvaging would be a valid career. also they'd have to let you tractor beam wrecks that weren't yours."
"you already had combat probes to eliminate an entire poulation from low sec that it's not under big alliances boots/protection.haven't you donne enough to destroy a big bit of the game for a great number of eve players?"
"bump"
"my only complaint of this is that outposts in 0.0 should be completely destructible, so that stupid deployments can be corrected. i know the argument that folks who don't log on might lose stuff in a destroyed outpost. so what? if you lose a regional war and have to evac quickly, you leave stuff in an outpost you may never see again anyway. i know i have assets stuck in 0.0 i do not expect to ever get back, and some of that is 3+ years old.there should be 3 tiers of outpost attackassault - current method (destroy upgrades, assault station in with reinforcement timers)wreck - virtually all station services are gone, hangars still exist with ships and gear, no \"ownership\" to prevent anyone from docking, the core of the op heredestroy - a second complete cycle of the assault as far as structure/armor hp. like targeting a wrecked ship, the \"wrecked\" outpost can be targeted and destroyed completed. this destruction will then leave pieces for salvage, random modules and/or ships from the various hangars for loot. destroyed stations \"dissolve\" into the ether like ship wrecks and cans after 24 hours.this allows for a true \"scorched earth\" campaign, and to eventually correct stupid outpost deployments. note that this is only for player-deployed outposts, the only indestructible player created object in eve that costs less than a supercarrier"
"post here if you would like ccp to make the removal of bots/scripts from eve online a priority.by posting you're keeping our anger at the situation on the front page.feel free to discus the problem or just simply a post supporting an anti bot petition is fine."
"yes."
"supported!"
"angry coco agrees with this."
"fixing lag should be priority they try to do it for a year and getting worse every expansion."
"lag may be a problem, but so is boting since they have a direct negative impact on the new eden economy. price inflations caused by macro ratters collecting endless bounties while ore prices plummet as macro miners flood the market with ores."
"yeah the interface has a \"report isk spammer\" option, whatever that means. why not have a \"report botter\" menu option."
"supported"
"supported. +1"
"information is neither good nor bad. it is what is done with it that may rate a moral judgment. i agree that dotlan can help in this regard but just because a third party has made a fix does not mean it shouldn't be implemented in game. by that same logic you could remove the in game browser, all maps, and the mail.if possible we should have our tools close to hand, let the information flow and see what the players make of it.m"
"something to think about:::look at other games, like wow and sto,,, are they better?they don't tell you nothing and when they do they lie. at least ccp let you know where you stand, you may not like it but they have the ball to tell you. it's not easy killing bots and still have the engine work right. so if you don't like it go to another game... sorry that is how i think... i'm not a nice person i'm an eve player"
"whatever ccp decide, do something about bots and let us know what they've done."
"also, why not post their habits? post how they were caught, and (if possible) what ship fittings they regularly used."
"$$$ to isk = ccp buying back half the rmt market.isk to $$$ = the end.do you wish to have to report your isk balance to the tax office each yearhow will rating work for you with your income taxed by the government?"
"would have to be a international pizza house.pizza huttdominoesonly two i know of here in nz.plex for pizza = delivered one pizza. or pick up and one drink as well."
"boo, boring csm (except for mazz and deirdre ofc). supporting pizza!"
"i have heard worse ideas and although far fetched it could work, im sure it'd be good for removing isk from the eve economy. and who doesn't like pizza? + 1"
"more support for this vital service"
"nuff said"
"5x 12inch \"hot shot\" and 5 bottles of 1l pepsi max, please."
"even if they mail it from ccp headquarters it'll still taste better than dominos"
"i'm tired of playing late at night and being hungry sometimes. a on-demand plex for pizza service is a must.supported"
"/supportedcan we get a local delivery to.. i'm to busy killing incursions to get up"
"this is the most epic idea ever!"
"suporting te pizza!can i ahve baddon pizza mounted with llarge peperonie beam please"
"do want."
"bump"
"fix hybrids!i could see the tracking speed being the first blaster fix.also people have noted that kin/therm is all fine and good for t1 but once you get into hacs they can be absurdly resistant to kin/therm. why not have a t2 hybrid charge that does em/exp?"
"there are a few posts already, some from 2009, you should read themonly constructive in your own opinion or all other opinions are considered? make it simple, they should have the smallest alpha and good dps supported by their rof/superior tracking, witch isn't the case.once again make it simple, the ammo size for you is important considering rp.if the game was rp projectiles shouldn't exist in the game.to make it simple you have 650m3 of cargo on your bs, 5k ammo is about 1/3 of your cargo, you can shoot a lot of stuff with that.now if there is some problem in this point is the capbooster charges size, not the ammo.since the railguns use huge energy to lounch the projectile (yes lounch) the ships need a great boost in their capacitor or lower the fitting requirements for rails/blasters, but also armor mods.what changes will this make? -nothing, just 5sec to swap ammo, no changes to the real problem.increase the rof bonus skill to 4% instead of 2% per skill level, this is a positive change but it must be related to hybrids. add extra capacity of the guns, the bigger ones like 425mm from 2m3 to 6m3, this is positive. this helps the dps in conjunction with some minor changes to the ammo, has tracking bonus of t2 ammo. tracking speed/rof of blasters is supposed to be the highest of all close range weapons in the game but it isn't, wy?you can't get in range to apply your dps before you get facemelted by everything and when you get the web supposed to help and increase blasters dps is nerfed.change the ship bonus of blaster platforms or give them another one. more speed per level or +web strenght per levelall t2 ammo are crap, you don't even notice that the tracking bonus in them is not one, it's a drawback, what interst on using ammo that lowers your tracking when you are already complaining about tracking issues?change tracking bonus and/od add dps or speed penality to the target (10% per hit or something like this i don't know and it's not my job to find it, it's ccp one)my conclusion to your post is simple, most of your proposals have nothing of any possible solution.talk about: ships bonus related to the weapon system and bonus that aloud using them effectivly.talk about: t2 ammo their bonus and their drawback that shouldn't existtalk about: the rof of hybrids witch it's supposed to be the advantage of hybrids and is notcould add some more but is a waste of time."
"no, that isn't unpredictable at all. in fact, i know exactly what would happen if someone did that.i will concede that there *might* storyline reasons as to why things work as they do, but vague hints of possibly some sort of unknown intelligence behind it all, or maybe not, is no reason to let an exciting and new frontier become stale and homogenous like it is becoming now. we can't say anything with certainty when it comes to w-space and the sleepers, as the many multi-page threads in eve fiction show. if they were that desparate to cling onto lore, ccp could just fudge it and say \"yeah, there's been a...supernova...or something...and now all statics are random. enjoy!\" and you'd still have your lore to back it up.heck, even just slapping a in few more regional statics would spice it up a little. it doesn't have to be a earth-shattering change to wh mechanics as we know them, it just needs to change a little to throw some more unknown factors into the mix."
"supported. this is what i thought how wormholes work now."
"yes"
"i do not support removing or changing current wormhole mechanics, but i am open to adding new more random wromholes on top of the current system."
"it got off of the test server so it must have been working as intended. the bras females are wearing under their jackets don't show anything indecent. we have to have jackets on so it's just a little cleavage being shown. you can probably see worse on prime time tv. we see our characters without clothing during character creation. and honestly some of the things that go down in game and in chat are worse than a little skin and would be more cause for a worse rating than the cleavage.thus there's no necessity for forcing people's avatars to wear a shirt.so if you agree there should be shirtless avatars (both for males and females) as long as there's that jacket or whatever for the females, please support this thread.edit - games like blade and soul and tera have more skin showing than the eve chars. so it isn't like eve would be the worst."
"yeah no kidding. the editor starts off with you in your underwear anyway so it's not like going shirtless (or pantless) is anything we haven't just seen on the screen before hand. why not just let people go forward no matter what state their wardrobe is in.besides you wouldn't say no to these cans would you?"
"my characters will have shirts..but i hate the kidification of everything so supported.heck people should have to wear jackets eather we are all naked in pod gew anyways,."
"i think that some of the outerwear should be worn as whole outfits, because some of it covers the entire body.i support this topic also."
"i see no reason to enforce top clothing. unless ccp can come with reasonable explanation, i support the op."
"agreed. my original toon was naked except for the gallente transparent... whatever the hell it was. what is the problem ccp? this should be an 18+ game anyways."
"my chars ain't shirtless, but i still see no reason for ccp to restrict this."
"those are extreme examples and not at all definitive of what would happen. plus, giving the option to make changes to your ship hardly turns eve into second life."
"all it'd take is a \"do not load custom ship skins\" flag in the options.that anyone doing any sort of pvp would obviously turn on."
"of course it's a good idea; and i believe ccp is already considering it as an option.some idea's:1.) texture shift. i'm pretty sure that this is very simple; and would in no way increase lag. first off, having seen it implemented before, i know a simple hue shift can be done; where the player adjusts the textures coloration, in a positive or negative fashion. similar to what you'd do; changing colors in a paint program. this affects one layer on a material, that is applied to a model; with each material applied, being able to receive similar adjustments. another shift could be applied, to the layer; involving lightening/darkening, the texture. effectively, you are painting your vessel, with these color shifts; which would then be visible, with 'look at' to all other players. it's just a modifier to the textures; which the server then relays to other clients. i think lag, as a result; would be minimal, or even unnoticeable.2.) texture change. here, the client would have installed; multiple variations of textures, for each ship/faction. given that a lot of the textures in game, are wrapped; there would have to be a number of optional textures, for each ship. this is the downside of using uv wrapping of textures; where applied textures, can be done much more easily. this is because each texture applied, is common to a great number of ships; and so, less textures are required, to apply to all ships. it is still a workable option, with 3-4 variables available; and wouldn't require to much storage client-side, i think. effectively, the textures chosen, each have an individual id; which the server then relays to other clients. this is much like the previous idea.3.) corporate and personal logo's. these are a little more complicated; particularly, when you customize them. for a simple option, a ' personal logo' could be built; in a similar fashion to corporate logo design. these would be readily available options; with easy application on ships. much like corporate logo's. customized logo's would function like alliance logo's; in that they would have to be submitted. ccp would then place the submitted, and approved logo's server-side; and deliver them to all clients, as visible logo's on vessels, using the content delivery service. this might result in logo's not being immediately visible; but slowly appearing on a ships hull. regardless of how, these nevertheless remain options; and could be effectively introduced in game. players would be able to select placements of their logo's on their ships; with 2-3 options for available placement, for each kind. optionally, alliance logo's could be available as well; replacing, or being in addition to, corporate logo's. player's choice. all ships flown by the player, would either follow a similar arrangement; or have to be individually set up, at cost. the latter, is perhaps better, as it would allow for individual customization of ships; which would mean fewer in game, and less potential lag, as a result of individual customization. also, less likelihood, that a ship will end up 'not fitting'; the design scheme applied to it.4.) engine trail customization. here's an interesting one. offerring variable engine trail and exhaust effects; it allows the player, to give is ship, that special look. optionally, it could lead into actual ship customization; and be entirely dependent, on engine upgrades. various race/faction engine designs; leading to variable engine effects, as customizable upgrades.5.) wouldn't it be interesting, if we could customize our very own ships; making them better, than they were initially, when we bought them? sleeper, talocan, yan jung, and various faction/pirate technologies available; to fully upgrade and customize our vessels, and allow for a little less predictability, when engaging various foes, in combat. no longer would ship balancing, be as much of a concern; as going up against adversaries, with unknown potential. it's a thought."
"possibly the best analogy yet. -liang"
"really an aggregate score would leave out too much information. no you've made some claims about how you think killmails might influence peoples behavior. but it's pure conjecture and opinion. you've offered no actual evidence to support your argument. i am addressing both of you at the same time because you are making the same argument and i don't see any point in repeating myself."
"killmails tell you how the battleships were fit. isnt this relevant? this argument that hearsay (aka reputation aka chest beating) is better than killmails as an objective indicator of pvp prowess is pretty funny. instead of playing a game of football maybe the packers and the steelers along with their fans should get on nfl forums and beat their chests about who is better.and liang your proposal to give some vague aggregate is very odd. you will not get a better understanding if you are provided *less* data. as for killmails not showing when 1v1 isnt honored due to remote reps  just show the remote repper on the killmail. problem solved."
"so you support the removal of killmails and the implementation of battle reports?"
"i think what he means is that ships providing rr should be shown on a killmail. say as a involved party with a rr module shown as used with 0 dmg caused so that their presence in an altercation is visible.of course that depends on what you mean by a battle report. at it's most base level a killmail is a battle report. though people generally refer to a collection of killmails taking place at the same place at around the same time as a battle report. or you could also mean a manual write up."
"id like ccp to add exclude's for low sec and 0.0. in there new contract search system.outstand search system tho."
"simple and much needed change. it should also affect courier missions.supported."
"it would be a small change but it would make their programs much less efficient. right now they know they can warp in, turn on miners, and it will be x seconds before its time to warp back to station and repeat.simply randomize the ice miner cycle time by +/- 30 seconds or so. if an example base time is 430 secs, just make the module either complete at 400 or 460 at random - and anywhere in between. it makes sense from a rp standpoint as not every piece will always take the same time to mine. it doesn't hurt regular, real miners at all and it makes macros just a bit more inefficient. it wont hurt skills as it could be randomized after the player's skills take effect."
"*cough* the python bots can just check the cycle status directly with the client's own ui code, the ocr bots can just see the green ring....macro is a improperly used word to describe eve bots, they are far more advanced these days than simple recorded key strokes."
"thats why im saying to randomize it. i guess i wasn't clear enough. you can't see the green ring. you don't know when its going to complete. and wouldn't the random time be server based not client based - so i don't see how the programs could read the code."
"the server has to send a message to the client of the ship's cargohold containing more ice, and to stop playing the mining laser effect. ocr bots can easily read changes in quantity in the cargohold, python bots can just place a hook waiting for the message or just read the quantities of ice in cargohold as well."
"hello all,this thread is about what you'd like to see in the next expansion, assuming incarna, dust 514, and world of darkness online don't make it in the next patch. what would you like the theme of the patch to be, and what areas could be most improved in said expansion?i'll get this started by giving my idea - eve online: syndication. this expansion would be all about corporations (not npc corporations or alliances, but the actual corporations that form the alliances or work individually). it would be themed around three things: corporate roles, player owned structures, and declarations of war.corporate roles would be more free to decide. each corporation could set the title for the various roles, and assign what permissions to give the individuals. you could, for instance, give the player the ability to add fuel to a pos and gain access to a hangar, but not let him install or remove modules or access other hangars for security.the second topic, poses, has been outlined in my depots document. i realize the idea is far from perfect, and some things may not be possible, but it would be a drastic improvement over the current state of affairs.the last issue, declarations of war, would be a tougher issue to mitigate, but i've compiled the various ideas posted in this forum and collated them into a new concept.the first issue would be to declare a reason for this war. it could be destroying a pos or doing a certain value of damage to the opponent, or even forcing them to leave the system in question. the cost of the wardec would be set at around 5% of the objective per week, and if the defenders decide to wait it out, they would be penalized too.the second issue is a corporate vote to declare the war, similar to how it is done now. the details of the war would be outlined and the players would have to agree for it to go into effect.the last part is a bidding war between aggressor and defender corporations. it starts out at the weekly cost, then the defender has 24 hours to counterbid. if the defender finally wins the bid, the corporation in question cannot declare war on that particular corporation for two weeks (or some other reasonable value).this is just my idea, and i know there are many other issues out there that need focused on (mining, missions, low-sec, et al). i just feel that this is the most important thing that needs fixed in this game. i'd like to hear your opinions on this issue, and maybe we can form a consensus on issues to present to ccp."
"eve online fixation - it would be all about fixing the lag."
"did someone say my name?my ideal expansion would include the following changes:--more space would be added (in nullsec, lowsec, and wormholes, but not highsec unless it had to be done in order to add to the former)--sovereignty would be turned into an \"influence system\" (i.e. you can only have high level sov if you actually inhabit that system) based on activity, poses, upgrades, and whatnot)--local gets completely nuked in null and lowsec, with the addition (for sov nullsec) of a local transponder that makes the list current but has pretty low hp--industry's ui gets an overhaul, making mass production and research easier--tier 4 battleships and tech 3 battleships--isk bounty nerf, corresponding rat loot increase--highsec sales tax increased to 2.5% base, npc corp tax rate increased to 16%--small gang objectives in sov warfare--lowsec gets unique resources, randomly appearing smugglers gates, and pirate ships that are illegal in highsec--some wormholes are added that cannot have poses anchored in them for whatever rp reason ccp decides to cook up. i definitely foresee interesting \"emergent gameplay\" i.e. new tactics and styles of play in wormholes. don't want to see these wormholes taken from existing wormhole space though--abandoned pos degradation...seriously, nuke unused highsec poses and abandoned wormhole poses. if the owner hasn't been there in months it shouldn't take such a hideously long time to kill it.--pos coding reconfiguration and complete makeover. needed this for ages.--mining revamp. could post a couple whole threads on how to do this but the gist is involve scanning and exploration, and massive and/or hidden belts that people have to actually explore. in conjunction, nerf or boost drone region mineral drops so that they are not suddenly the richest regions in the game. :unintended consequences:--make mission rats dynamically spawn. everyone knows exactly how every mission is supposed to be done. this leads to booooring game play.--boost regular npc ai--make the sites spawned by pirate array upgrades random, not always the same ones, and make the contents dynamic.--make site content based off of truesec, so that system differences are actually differences and some are better than others--dynamic moon minerals. greyscale i hope you read this. high-end moons never change hands and are rarely fought over despite their value, because they're always in the same spot. in addition, the average 0.0 resident never sees a dime of the money they produce because it's always alliance-controlled. i have seen some interesting ideas on how moon mining could be spruced up...and to hell with the t2 manufacturers.--nerf supercap hp down to the levels the csm suggested (like 4-5x current carrier health, not 60x as is)--nerf, but don't remove, jump bridge, titan bridge, and jumpfreighter range--nerf the dramiel a bit--boost hybrids (durrrr)--allow us to reconnect to drones in space--take a look at killmails, they're still rather buggy (and yes, killmails are well worth having in the game, you filthy carebear)--hit the drone regions with more incursions. i like seeing krutoj squirm as his macro empire grinds to a standstill.--look at blackops and electronic attack ships, they need a rebalance--snake implant set equivalent for shields--moar boosters, moar--make customer service gms play the game so they understand what they're dealing with. it would really cut down on the number of petition responses that are completely out of touch with the game (such as the extended downtime onlining debacle)i'm just about out of space and ideas off the top of my head, but...yeah, that's what i'd like to see in an expansion.also, buy more jita nodes for fleet fights."
"/supported (and i prefere it a.s.a.p)"
"supported.also, i'd like to have highlighted only the next gate in my autopilot route, not all gates on my route. (not an issue if you only have one waypoint, but multiple waypoints can cause you to have multiple adjacent systems in your stargate route.)"
"supported, along with the next waypoint only addition.whilst we're at it, let's actually look at the overview information:icon: stargate - ok, coolname: stargate (destination) - fair enough, though duplication between icon/name is annoying - at least switch the description around so it reads destination (stargate) for the 4 people in the game that don't have icons and names enabled on their overviewstype: mumble stargate mumble - yes, i get it, it's a dang stargate. i really couldn't care less whether its \"<racial> standard stargate\", \"stargate <racial> system\", \"stargate <racial> constellation\"the same massive duplication of information applies elsewhere. overview space is at a premium. i need to know name/type for a bunch of stuff (particularly other player ships), but i'd like to not have to see a bunch of entirely irrelevant and superfluous data."
"reasonable proposal.add a different colour, i.e. green, for next gate on route. sometimes a route comes back through the same system and one gets multiple yellow gates and a distinction here would be nice, too."
"if you are in a pos without bubbles. you log off and you warp off 1mil km from the pos and become vulnerable. if they became aggressed they could be in space for up to 15mins. except if there's a bubbled pos they stay safe in the pos and just disappear. my proposal is that anyone logging off in a bubbled pos stays in space. until they die or the bubbles go away."
"nope, when you log off at pos you stay at pos, disappear and when you login you appear 1 mil away from pos and warp to it. get a clue, then make proposals"
"op's a troll. spend some time reading his other proposals and you'll see what i mean.."
"i'm guessing thats an opinion; and not really a fact. quite right about the stationary log-off though; you stay in one place now. it didn't used to be that way, though; and ships just fly off in a random direction."
"to be able to reduce communications between fleet members, and maybe even break up fleets using skills and modules would add an element of uncertainty to any fleet fight. it would create innovative new approaches to fleet fights and ehance the experience for new as well as seasoned veterans.for instance: a fleet of twenty ships (fc, 2 wc, 2 groups each of five ships) encounters a similar fleet. the dedicated \"white noise\" generators on specialized ships spring into action. after ccp calculations, and a lot of groans and \"onos\" from fleet members, suddenly one group from each wing is detached and effectively cut off from fleet (including communications). this requires either the fc to acknowledge the problem and put them back into fleet structure, or the affected fleetmembers to re-rganize themselves."
"so you suggest we add needless micro-management to the already ******ed fleet interface?why?keep in mind that with out of game comms being the standard the effect of any such \"feature\" would have marginal impact at best and merely add to frustration with ui in general."
"you have a point; the reason for my proposal however is to have the option to remove some of the features in a fleet fight. one important such thing is to assign targets, and that would have an impact, don't you agree? also, if a requirement for using projected eccm, and all the modules working remotely, is that the person is in your fleet, it would have a very interesting effect."
"you mean this ecm module hacks their ventrilo/mumble/ts server and brings it down? maybe closes their alliance/corp channel so that they can't x up for fleet again?"
"i am open to suggestions. the idea is to make the disruption of a fleet an option. but if it is like you are implying, why do we have a fleet interface to begin with?*wrong alt when responding - still von stenck*"
"uh huh....interesting idea, except that no one uses eve voice. that being said, if you'd like to disrupt 3rd party communications....have fun in jail as i'm sure that's a violation of several different us federal, and international laws. you want to assign targets? how about your fc calling primary and secondary targets. i've gone through entire fleet battles without ever actually being in the fleet, just on ts. ewar is already ridiculously overpowered. not supported. move on."
"not supported as such.firstly, everyone will try to avoid eve voice even more.secondly, a fleet structure is not a thing but an immaterial organisation. each ship itself exists as a material object in space, but their organization in hierarchies exists only in the pilots' heads. you cannot disrupt an idea as such.*however, the fleet feature adds an extra to it, which could get targeted: a gang link to counter an enemies gang link would be interesting to see. a fleet would have to give up some of their own fleet bonuses for the ability to reduce an enemies fleet bonuses by fitting a gang link disruptor (or whatever you want to call it).*) you could try to broadcast pron pics onto each players' screen, and it would disrupt quite well the organization of a fleet, but it would really be just trolling."
"what i'd like to see is way (besides bugs :)) to jam command structure: leadership and ganglinks"
"i support this"
"support. lol"
"blood for the blood-gods"
"yes"
"a while ago i heard an awesome rumor that incursions would turn off concord? what ever happened to that?"
"it won't work because it doesn't go far enough.the objective should be to stop the lameness that is the rr heavy gang that can jump into a certain death situation, gank a few targets and tank until they can jump out .. something simply copying the timer will not do."
"people keep using the petition system to report bugs. why not add bug report to the help screen?"
"because that would make sense, silly. we can't have that here.p.s. fix lag."
"i'm hoping this is already on ccps list for the ui upgrades.why stop at screen capture? an option for 30 second (or whatever) client screen capture will show more for the bh and be easier to show reproduction steps."
"i think we should be able to advertise on the billboards, i mean with lots of isk and a high standings with corp or alliances. like you can do on eon mag.tell me what your think"
"just see how many disagreement this post will get, you'll have an idea how many ppl are botting and prefer ccp doing nothing about it.as you mentioned, more botting will increase plex price, that is true. it will also benefit ccp a lot in selling more plexes. so, although i support your idea or anyother idea against botting. i really don't think ccp will do anything about it.however, to give you some hope, there will be some ballance at the end. when there're enough botting ppl in game, raw material price drop a lot and plex becoming super expensive, there'll be a point botting no longer cover the price of plex. (maybe 3 times more botter? lol) so, i wish that day come soon. standing on the position of ccp, everything becomes very simple to understand. only goal is to minmize cost(fixing unnecessary stuff) and maxmize profit(selling more plex)."
"presuming they do it right; i might agree with you there. the problem i see with this; is players hate drm. why? it messes up your computer, makes logging in a pain, randomly kicks you from game; and a multitude of other problems. why else? because the hackers and botters still log in every day; and seem to have less problems than anyone else. why is that? because normal players don't know what they're up against; so they can't prevent their pc's from setting off warning signals for the drm. they get kicked because their pc uses specific software, unrelated; which requires little bits of script or other things, that the drm recognizes as hacking or botting, and/or macroing. the botter, hacker, macro guy/girl, knows exactly what will set off the drm; and makes sure it isn't on his computer. some of them also use hacked clients, where the drm has been removed; and some even use hacks, and bots so advanced, that the drm doesn't recognize them.just play battlefield bad company 2, or half a dozen other fps games; if you think drm/punkbuster, or like security programs are really working. when an enemy teleports into your footsteps, and kills you; you'll know how well it really works, given they can do that. ..or even when you get shot through a hillside, or other heavy obstruction. fact is, most people banned for hacking on those severs; are banned because someone spotted them, and reported them. it doesn't work. programs just get more advanced, and workarounds are found; for everything you do, to put a stop to them."
"lol the siren totally freaked me out the first time i heard them cause i remembered silent hill loland no dont remove them i love them just drop your world volume or wathever siren is afected to"
"heh, i do not agree to remove those sirens, but change them in to a klaxon sound could be cool, because we are in the future. aren't we?"
"here's the idea: rather than have a 24hr timer between jumps, impose a 24hr timer on the clone you jumped from.example: you're in system a and you have jc's in system b and system c. you jump from a to b, the clone left in system a has a 24hr reuse timer. you can't jump back into the clone in system a for 24hrs. you then jump to the clone in system c, the clone in system b has a 24hr reuse timer, etc.it would allow more jumps, yes, that's the point. but you can only have as many jumps as you have clones and you can't jump into clone you left in the same 24hr period.would this be more handy? is it game-breaking? what do you think?"
"the time is approaching.... to the \"csmobile\""
"thanks for the swift reply csm people...."
"just to clarify: this agenda item is not a formal proposal of the same kind you see in assembly hall. i would characterize it more as an administrative vote to recommend an \"official\" csm stance on the matter to ccp. what ccp does is up to them; they run the show when it comes to policies that control who can and can't run for csm. since opinions are being aired here, i will share mine. i respect dv and can agree with the ideology that moved him to call for this vote, which is a strong desire to avoid potential damage to csm credibility by preventing previous nda-breakers back on the council. however, i will vote against the measure. ccp have made their decision about lark. i cannot support asking them to do an about-face on the matter. it is too late to impose such a policy for csm6 candidacy. besides, i believe that lark has paid his penance, sincerely regrets what he did, will not repeat the mistake, and has a lot to offer in the way of game expertise and an ability to express his views intelligently. all of those qualities would serve csm6 well if he were to be elected. sure you could speculate that he is masterfully trolling us about his remorse and has every intention of letting his inner bad boy out again if elected, but i prefer to give him the benefit of the doubt based on many conversations we've had about it over the last year or so. without the ability to do a vulcan mind-meld, all i can do is make a personal decision about him based on the information i have to work with.and before you ask me if i would support ankh being allowed to run again, the answer is no--for reasons i am not permitted to and won't discuss.anyway, if the item remains on the agenda for a vote, i will reiterate in the meeting my position as stated here. i'm sure there will be a lively debate, and it will all be the raw logs for your reading pleasure."
"reading this i am very impressed with you diplomatical and political skills.not only do you manage to defend the proposal to the vote while looking like not supporting it.you also manage to sneak the option of lark being a possible liar, and thus increasing the chance people will think he will do the same again, while skillfully making him look like a repentfull person and you the good person with the big heart.heck in the beginning you even very slightly planted the seed that not you but dv is the one who wants the personal agenda rolled. you do understand where he is comming from but you're too bighearted and understanding of ccp's course to support him.my big wonder however will remain. \"would you have reacted to this all the same if this hadn't gotten some intelligent responces in a negative way back or not?\"sadly we will never know anymore.you skillfully pull a 180 whereever possible without looking like someone covering his own butt for the new elections.might be the paranoia i build up over the years of eve or might be i am just a tad more skillfull in reading between the lines. heck it even might be my own experiences as diplomath which grew my feelers for such cunning wordplays.now the sole question remaining for me to decide is:\"mynxee, skilled diplomath or...\"this is a personal question to be answered by me personal. this ofcourse in no way reflects the mindset of my corporation, alliance or other people i encounter or play with in the game."
"killer: people who know me, know i'm an open book. what i say is exactly what i am thinking and feeling. if my efforts to try and see both sides of the question appear to you to be cleverly executed 180s, there's nothing i can do or care to do about that. but tbh, i'm really not that clever. i am certainly not maneuvering regarding the next election, because i'm not running. my interest in eve is at an all-time low for a variety of reasons...some :ccp: and some personal. mainly eve can't compete with rl these days. so i have no ulterior motives or agenda here. just expressing my views in public on a matter that obviously has people in a bit of a swivet."
"yeah if there is one thing that would improve wow it'd be suicide ganking.back in the day i was looking at both eve and wow as a potential mmo to play, and the reason i chose eve is that i can shoot anything i want, wherever i want, whenever i want.just look at pugs (pick up groups). in wow if a bunch of pubbies are incompetent you can whine on chat for an hour or so with your impotent elven rage. in eve if the pubbies are incompetent then they all die in an incursion and you can scoop their loot in a noobship!"
"with the recent discussion about jumpbridges, titanbridges etc it seems to me that both ccp and the csm are in favour of making new eden feel larger.in a similar vain i dreamed up a set of changes to jump clones on which i'd like to hear some player/csm feedback.1. players can change bodies as often as they like or possibly introduce a skill that allows for body changes more often than once a day.2. players need to be in the same station as their clone to change bodies.3. allow more than one jump clone to be stored in a station.4. remote destruction of jump clones (not sure if this is possible atm)5. possibly increase the max amount of jump clones from five to ???.6. change the name into something more fitting like spare body or something.consequences of the changes:-pvp gets easier to get into because players can change into their combat clone for a roam and back again at the end of their session.-jump clones can't be moved after their creation which opens up gameplay choices: i) spread out clones or a central location? ii) which npc corp offers the best jumpclone locations / has viable stations dispersed throughout empire?-players need to travel instead of clonejumping to the other end of the map.i think the consequences of these changes would be overall positive for the game, with the 3rd being the only which could also be seen as a con.so, what didn't i think of?"
"i dislike half of what you said but you do have some intresting ideas.i would like to jump more than once a day :("
"i support this! would be a great change! ccp just do it!"
"i support this idea"
"/signed"
"/signedi cant stress enough how much the new effect sucks. i believe the majority of the eve community is in agreement with the op.please listen to your customers and players ccp and return the old effect.-hyde"
"jegus i apparently haven't supported this yet."
"/signed"
"oh no, your only good post so far, this is so true. eve game balance sux. worst is that there is nobody at ccp who does a thing to make it better. so making these threads wont do anything.do they care if 90% of ppl agree something should be done about blaster, no. thats the problem."
"bump.don't just read, support! takes 30 seconds...for another 7 years of potentially way cooler missiles."
"i'd say drone bay should be gone and speed reduced so that it wouldnt be greater that interceptors.also mind that after the rocket boost hookbill is a nice counter provided it's fitted properly."
"supported."
"/signed"
"not game breaking in anyway and it simply makes sense."
"yeah, it is a joke. which is why if jump bridges were to stay, and be able to be used by everyone an alliance has blue, the cost per day should be the number of pilots in said nap train times some number. right now the cost of jump bridges are an utter and complete joke to run.or better yet...remove all forms of bridging except black ops covert jump bridge."
"you know, part of \"making eve bigger\" could be to give stargates mass per hour limits. this would work inversely to your strawman here, but it would certainly make fleet ops interesting."
"burn all the jump bridges, or make the price so astronomical that more than 2 or 3 become a massive burden to run for even the largest, most wealthy alliances. add on to this that only the alliance that anchors the bridge can use it, and increase the bridge fuel requirements by a huge margin to make them soley used for logistics, and not for moving large fleets."
"allow me to quote myself:if you come up with a solid argument to counter that, i will offer a full and utter retraction. otherwise, i'm just gonna let the facts do the talking."
"giving my support to this. bots have been making it difficult to mine effectively at all, and there's just no way to compete with them on the market unless you're watching it like a hawk 23/7.this needs to stop."
"macros/bots are the cancer of eve that is present everywhere in increasing numbers. this issue needs to be addressed head on by the development team. we can only hope that csm can make them do more than making empty promises in a blog."
"even if ccp implemented the code in total secrecy, the macro programs will simply be updated to better get around the new change in the eve client (example: mining 12/7 instead of 23/7**) once someone has realized the change. as some of the knowledgeable people can tell you, macros can be for more intelligent than one can realize.**that's the only example i can give you as i don't want to give macro developers any ideas.no matter how you look at it, it will ultimately be left up to the players do deal with the individual mocros in this front while ccp combats rmt on another front since the players are the ones that are way better at spotting individual macros than ccp is."
"1. most of the bots are ocr based, meaning they don't inject any code, all they do is take repeated screenshots of the current frame and parse it. also they have standardized ui layouts so the bots already know where everything is. it also takes all of five seconds to change the checksums of a program via automatic exe padding to foil any silly program checks.2. the python based bots are very few and limited, ccp has actually caught a few(did you know ccp can remotely upload and execute code on selected users? :d) however it's near impossible to stop such \"code from being injected\" attempts because of how eve is compiled w/ python. see: unreal engine 2,2.5, 3 being hacked the same way via unreal script directly with no way for punkbuster to stop it all. one main issue is that any code to weed out injected code can simply be overwritten in memory by higher level injected code.essentially bots are here to stay, ccp needs to however make it a lot more difficult for them to function, i guarantee you that if after one patch the ui keeps resetting to defaults for everyone after each launch of the client, that the mineral market will suddenly sky rocket in prices."
"interesting read with some mentions of eve -> linkage"
"1.0"
"agreed! +1"
"games ruined by bots-runescape - ok this wasnt an amazing game but it had a lot of good things going for it, the kill rmt update killed in game trade as well as pvpsilk road- game was hack central, i would reccomend never downloading it as 3rd parties could do crazy things such as change your player shop prices.eve online- sadly its coming true, market prices fall, bot alliances have funds to fight off any legitimate alliance out there.any random player can download a mining bot and in in a .9 all day and make a few mil with no fear unless he sells to an isk selling site."
"if ccp actually did this, then all accounts currently botting 23/7 would be immediately banned. as is being taken off the field permanently, unable to enter new and improved bots.and once you realize the magnitude of said change, you realize you just cut botting time in half. :) not bad for 5 minutes work, eh?the overwhelming factor which gives botters away is greed. simply put: they bot too much to be human. and they kinda have to (that's the catch), otherwise, what's the point in doing so? that's their primary achilles heel.even if botters were to adapt (as i'm sure they will), that's still minus all banned botters (and their ip addresses) who currently bot 23/7, leaving the rest to mine 'only' 12/7 (also highly suspicious). that's quite a reduction."
"@ ranka - we'll just have to see. but i still firmly stand by my belief that a good year or two of constant ganking on suspected macros is the most effective means of containing the macro infestation. changing codes will do little to combat the situation."
"one last bump"
"just to be clear... adding a height slider will change nothing about the game at all. even your portrait will look exactly the same, with no discernible difference between short or tall character pictures. this is a complete waste of time if ever there was one....+1 supported."
"agreed on saying no. there's no upside to this.-in hi-sec, you allow people to circumvent unprobable ships for ninja looting and ganking. even if its just used for abandoned mission fields, you'll increase salvage supply and depress prices.-in lowsec, you have just finally killed level 5s. you also make scanning small ships like frigs trivial.-i don't think it would add anything to null either.as for nothing should be unprobable, i don't see anyone here extending that to cloaked ships. i think having to train for a t3 cruiser and gear it to do so is a pretty steep cost for limited utility."
"thats because while cloaked, you cant do anything. being unprobable skews the risk/reward ration by a huge amount. (all the way to 0 in fact, assuming a proper fit.) you can run level 5s in lowsec all day long without any fear of being ganked."
"seems like you support the proposal. :) please click 'agree' button if you do."
"it's not an ulterior motive for me. i want wrecks to be probeable for salvaging. i don't care if they are only probeable after the mission has been finished. i would definitely consider picking up salvaging as a profession if this was implementing. removing unprobeable ships is just a good side effect imo.but seriously i haven't read a decent argument as to why level 4's and level 5's should be able to be run in low/null with zero risk, regardless of what fit you are using."
"probing a wreck should only be possible after mission is completed orwreck has been in space for more then 30 minutes ( 1 hour in highsec and lowsec)this meansnullsec battles and missions can be salvaged maybelowsec missions can be salvagedhighsec missions can be salvagedall by a third party that was not in fleet and did not scan the original ship down. it would be a profession that isnt lolninjanub.it would be like a junker, maybe one who follows nullsec blobs in a cloaked ship to take the loot from a roam or salvage a large cap battle"
"the problem is that probing skews the risk ratio so far the other way that it's not worth doing any mission in lowsec otherwise. so it's a choice between content getting done, or content getting ignored.you are not going to get people to increase risk by making their ships probable, you just are going to send them back to hisec. why should being able to salvage battleship class rats have no risk at all? everyone is talking about mission runner risk, but mission salvaging, ninja or not, has so very little risk its not even funny.you don't need to scan wrecks down in hisec: find a busy system with miners, and salvage the wrecks they leave. or get some stones, and head out to a lowsec system to salvage the aftermath of militia battles.increasing the ability to probe down mission salvage is just boosting the payout of salvagers while making it have zero risk. you don't even need to worry about rats. salvaging is tuned as a beginning, low-sp profession. the changes to probing made it insanely lucrative with zero risk, and changing it even more in that way is being hypocritical, especially when claiming risk/reward otherwise."
"the issue here is not that they are trying to do whatever against the mission runner. the issue here is that there is a large portion of mission runners that complete the mission turn it in and move on without ever looting and salvaging. lag would be reduced if in these situations if players could probe out the wrecks and clean them up.also, it does not really makes sense that you can probe out a battleship but not a battleship wreck because it would still be large."
"every pve high sec profession is risk-free if you know what you are doing, including mission running. if you want the benefits low/null provides over high sec then you need to accept the risk involved.salvaging high sec belt rats would of course probably be the lowest paying profession in eve, which is why i used to probe down mission runners back when i was in high sec. the advantage of being able to probe down wrecks in high sec is to clean up the system of abandoned wrecks."
"because clean full plexes in caps and super caps is not risk free?are you going to start with the same stupid arguments that high sec is risk free and profit? are you kidding or just stupid?you know whow mutch you can do al allone with one cap in a single plex? do you ever learn maths or even donne them to come out here saying all that crap?where is your risk when you salvage? what risk do you ever take anyway? -you don't bring any value or reasonable argument to your opinion, the only thing you are able to throw out is mission runnes = risk free, you don't have a clue of what you are talking about or just trying to convince noobs.people like you have already done a good job with los sec genocide of carebeers, you whant to contiue. your game must be so fun."
"i'd support probeable wrecks, when they have been abandoned. otherwise abandoning mission wrecks would be wasted.probing wrecks which are not abandoned i don't support. ninja salvager shall work for their benefits."
"first, calm down. your sudden surge of insults and typos show me you need to relax a bit.i've never flown caps or known anyone who has, so i can't really comment on that part. however, doing pve in caps means you are in null/low sec and have the ability to be attacked at anytime with no provocation, so it is more riskier than doing pve in high sec.as for high sec pve, assuming you know what you are doing:mining is risk free. fit a shield booster and bring drones or mine in systems where rats don't spawn.mission running is risk free. once you've run a mission once you should never have a problem with it again. you also have the option to avoid missions you know are very difficult. i've lost only one battleship running level 4's in high sec, and it was when i first started and did not have enough sp/experience to run them.ninja salvaging is also risk free. you have no clue what mission you will be salvaging, but the mission runner is usually taking full aggro.now if you want the extra lp and rewards given by missions set in low/null, then you need to be willing to accept the higher risk involved. it has nothing to do with removing \"carebears\" from low sec. besides, bringing a ton of unprobeable carebears into low sec is about as helpful as having none there at all."
"cheers lads keep it posting."
"definitely in support of this idea."
"i am in complete favor of banning autonomous clients (bots) /signedhowever there are some things that are techincally macros. for example the programable keys on most gaming mice that allow you to press multiple keys at once for example a one click activation of your tank eg mouse 1= f1-f2-f3-f4. and i am willing to bet many of the serious pvp players use these regularly and arent even aware that they are technically tos violations.so i am actually in favor of simple utility binds and macros that are not game altering. especially since ccp refuses to fix the market system to allow the sale of multiple items.in short no bots yes for basic hotkey binds"
"1000.0"
"the main problem i can see is that it would generate a wonderful set of information for gankers. this is a good and bad thing. for miners that are in less populated systems it could cause more miners to show up there, and for the more populated systems it would draw more gankers until the miner pop drops or slows a bit. don't get my wrong the information would be valuable for mining ops, but for solo miners it can be a killer that causes you to move. i actually like the several systems i mine in that have low minier pop and it would suck to have to share them with more miners"
"+1 for being innovative."
"the previous level of shirtlessness was well within the limits of eve's esrb t rating."
"it was probably due to all the shirtless guys running around. by the way, not supported. no one should be fapping to serious business spaceship avatars."
"i have a vest and a black tube top ... who needs a shirt?"
"i agree, this is really stupid. i mean, kids see stuff like latest lady gaga videos every day from dumbtube. who cares if you can see underwear or bare male chest? more variation = better."
"seriously, i cannot support the reasoning behind this change whatsoever. it's stupid. if we want to be shirtless, let us be shirtless! (i'd also support not requiring pants, shoes, or jackets, but it's clear that they're never going to budge on that.)"
"indeed. ironically, many chronicles feature more than enough cruelty and sex to warrant a 18+ rating."
"i'm wearing a zipped jacket over my bra.once you implement more traditional minmatar tribal-wear, i'll happily change into cotton-wraps under my red-brown leather clothes."
"why you deny me showing off my beautiful abs?"
"this proposal doesn't affect me in any way, but i still support it. more customization options can't be bad."
"supported, or are we in in the united states where you see killing in tv all day but not one boobie? i hope eve wont get such hypocrital moral values."
"supported... how can i stroke my e-peen with a shirt on?"
"+1 it is bull you need to create your character with no clothes on, yet it is mandatory to put some ugly shirt on which covers all. apparently no sexy looking character allowed in eve."
"agreed...it seems rather petty and pansyish of ccp to make this change. it's like ccp has never seen a woman's cleavage. i thought it was the middle east where women couldn't show skin and had to cover their faces...not iceland."
"supported"
"supported.i also support \"naked option\", but that's for a different time"
"supported"
"ccp are obviously still busy fixing the bugs they keep introducing and playing with barbie's but fw is still around and still broken.make killing all npc's a requirement for timer activation and remove npc ewar!call it a band-aid until they get around to finding an actual solution to the atrocious plexing mechanics.edit: in italics"
"since i started playing eve i've always been frustrated with the lack of accessibility in the game. i've had enough. it's time to address this once and for all. i've read posts where even \"sighted\" individuals (i.e. normal sighted persons) have a hard time seeing the text in eve.at the 2009/10 fanfest (can't remember which) there was a guy who was \"holding the torch\" for users wanting support for the linux platform. one of the gm's respectfully said that less then 1% of eve players use linux and therefore it was not feasable. i would hope this is not the thinking behind not supporting the visually impared."
"you should give more details about certain issues within the game that is hard for those visually impaired. i know what it means but lets face it, there is a crap ton of kids playing (at least that is their mentality) and they probably won't know what you are on about unless you explain it a bit more."
"<U+FFFD> ui \"contrast mode\": all text is colored sharp-white. not gray or light gray, but white. that means for those of you who are nerdy, 255, 255, 255 in rgb.all \"fading\" or \"gradient\" effects removed in this mode. this should cause all fading to make the ui \"flat\" -- just like when you talk about a flat black vs. a glossy black.<U+FFFD> font type selection: i now how hesitant developers are to change something they've created into a certain mold, because i am one. but, honestly there needs to be a choice of at least 2 other alternative fonts. i'm guessing the reason ccp chose the font they have chosen is because of the \"caps\" that are used in their menus, etc. they also most likely chose it because it is one of the only fonts that will not \"break\" or alias badly when in a small size. having said this, there needs to be support for a least one other font that only renders in a larger size maybe, so that the eye can cope with the small sized fonts.<U+FFFD> 800 x 600 resolution support: i know you're saying \"what?\" let me explain. on every pc i have installed eve, 800 x 600 is very difficult to confgiure. on my xp machine, i had to put the client into windowed mode first before the 800 x 600 resolution even showed up. my mac simply does not have 800 x 600 for an option in the client. if this is a problem to code or what-knot, i think there should be a \"zoom\" mode that uses a high resolution and then emulates 800 x 600 in that high resolution. in other words you would scale it so that the 1024 x 768 would actually render as 800 x 600. this would be a tick box, in the graphics settings.everything i have listed above is completely doable. these accommodations are reasonable because i'm also taking into account the time and effort to pull something like this off.is there something i should be more specific about? (not saracstic.)contributions<U+FFFD> textual representation fixes:"
"eve is famous for inducing eye strain even for those that do not have any visual disability. i can imagine the pure frustration of anyone with failing eye sight trying to play eve."
"i think you cover it. sounds good to me."
"bigger text!"
"supported, also have you thought of adding bigger buttons to control the windows (pin, minimize, exit)? my eyesight is not great and the text gives me a hard time but my worst problem is accidentally clicking exit instead of minimize because my mouse is 14x bigger than the buttons."
"no excuse for not supporting visually impaired players. get your **** together ccp."
"it's interesting as i was mulling this over. since eve is played by young and old alike, you would think ccp would want their old players to keep coming back. you would also think that they would want their young players who will inevitably become old (in the game and real life) to be able to actually play so they can pay and be a returning customer. this even works out from the business stand-point, big lol. why nip this in the bud right now?"
"i have challenged eye sight, but luckily it doesn't effect my ability to read text close up. yet."
"supported.another issue is with increasing monitor sizes. the interface and font is tiny at the high native resolutions of newer monitors. there is no interface scaling at all. running at below native resolution introduce display problems and blur. i don't think it's fair to those of us that use decent computers instead of decade old laptops."
"incursions should not just disappear after a week. if left undone they should spread to nearby constellations. incursions need to be persistent and carry consequence when ignored. the entirety of mother russia must be basked in sansha's green glow. sov null have been breast-feed in their comfort zone for far too long, we must bring the involuntary pve to them. whenever you undock in eve, you subject yourself to pve. make it so that moon-goo stop producing during incursions too."
"i like this. it means that leaving things unchecked could become a major problem for the risk averse carebares in null.and of course, the non risk averse will take their fleets, kill the sansha, and then return to what they were doing."
"i would honestly think that the major problem with this is that in low sec, if an incursion began, it would run rampant in the system since no one would clear it, and it would just spread to all of low sec eventually, making low sec a giant incursion.on second thought, supported."
"no incursions would become a chore for nullsec allianceslow sec incursions will never be done so the lowsec ones will be there forever and spread until all low is covered."
"exactly"
"russian incursion is down 1%, someone's doing it."
"global cynojam for all of lowsec? sign me up"
"title says it all really. i have enough channels up as it is, it's extremely irritating having the incursion channel popping up every time i enter a constellation with an ongoing incursion. i'm not saying remove it, i'm saying make it like constellation chat where you can close it once and be done with it."
"supporting my own post"
"incursions are supposed to be annoying. not supported. and give us back highsec sansha gatecamps too."
"you do realize it was a game bug/glitch right?i mean... your discussing and debating a non-exsistant mechanic.unless ccp discovered how to troll *gasp*."
"i hardly ever post on the forums, but this is something which should get some attention.at the current time it's virtually impossible to have certain roles for certain pos up to a higher level.meaning that you have to grant roles which you don't want permanently added to some corp members in order to give them more options at building.same applies for the ueage of research, if people want to use a corp pos for research they have 2 options.a: fly to the pos with the bpo and put it in the lab to research it. ( this is a not very good idea )b: use a corphangar to put the bpo in and research it remotely from there. ( this also puts the very expensive bpo's at risk from thieves that might sneak into a corp)there is no c, which would allow you as a member of the corp to selevt your own hangar as where to research from.building is also kinda off. worst case scenario: you have certain people building high valued items and someone who has nothing to do with those builds but who's pee'd off and has the role to access those builds can virtually mess you up by cancelling the builds close before they end.as a corp you haven't got the option to set access and roles to that regard to only certain pos which is an oversight in my opinion.clearly there should be the option to tweak a role to be granted to only a certain pos or several pos but not to all.this would allow more diversity in the useage or pos without limiting a lot of people or increasing the risks for a corporation.certainly with the current infiltration chances of a corporation the options to increase certain securities should be upped too.your opinions on this please.kind regards,andrea"
"i think this is intended feature to give a possibility to steal bpo's and other stuff."
"poses don't need tweaking. they need a complete overhaul from the ground up. this issue is just one of the many issues i've tried to fix in my depots document.neither supported or not supported - this issue is just fixing a symptom while the disease rages on."
"just as there has to be the possibility to steal them an owner should have more than the crude basic options to protect them."
"no, not supported.killmails are a viable way for us to tell how many people were there, what they were in, and how they did.if you can't take your failure being on an open board for people to see, get a private board, or stop dying.edit: what game do you play that people are scared of a loss showing up on a killboard? i can't think of any alliance in 0.0 that cares about losing ships on the kb.none of the russians seem to care.it sure doesn't care, they welp super caps almost as fast as we donc doesn't care, goons will welp a fleet in a heart beat and regularly have slosh ops just to do that, and nc proper dies en mass on fleet op almost every other dayand well, our kb is open posting, so anybody can make fun of anybody elses fit, even if your not in the alliance.so where are all these people shying away from pvp because of kill mails?or is it just you, and your friends who don't want people laughing at their losses?"
"hi pl.well they aren't really accurate enough for most of that.failure?eve onlinei've had one smack talk me for an hour after killing his probe bellicose.i'm almost certain the op isn't making any assertion like that."
"a battle report system would be a summary of an entire engagement, regardless of the end result. think of it as a verbose dialog driven translation of the combat log. it wouldn't have fitting information, but it would be a more accurate method of gauging a conflict."
"they're usually the asshats in elite pvp alliances. -liang"
"i thought those were the killmail *****s?you do realize that it is impossible to get on a killmail without taking some risk of losing a ship right? no matter how good or blobby or ganky they might be everyone gets killed once in a while if they are going into pvp situations. there is always going to be someone out there who is better than you, or has more friends than you or is just plain luckier than you."
"/not supportedstupid idea. if killmails are causing you and yours a problem then here's a clue for you :its your problem. fix your own corp and its anal attitude to efficiency!othran has his api linked to battleclinic so every single kill/loss, no matter how \"embarrassing\" goes there. whats the problem? everyone screws up from time to time.this really is the dumbest idea i've seen in a very very long time. congratulations on the levels of stupidity displayed, it really is exceptional"
"from the op:"
"you didn't read anything beyond the title of the thread. like i said, people will do whatever it takes to avoid losses, so they bring whatever they need to guarantee a win. at no point did i talk about people who don't post loss mails, because usually those get posted anyway by the killmail ***** that killed them."
"people will opt for the easiest solution to any problem, wouldn't that solution be just not pvping ?"
"they can't be on killmails if they don't actually pvp."
"people blob because the use of overwhelming force is the single most successful tactic ever devised. every other tactic ever dreamed up has been because you didn't have superior forces to use against your enemy and generally involve dividing your opponents force in some manner in which the result is that you have overwhelming force arrayed against that subsection of the enemies force. fair fights are for organized sports in any other situation the goal is to crush your enemy as quickly as possible while sustaining minimal damage to yourself. this is why large predators do not normally pick fights with each other. because any time a predator engages an equal in battle there is a chance of serious injury which can threaten it's survival. that's why except in the case of extreme desperation predators tend to go after the weak and injured because a health wildebeast is liable kick your teeth in preventing you from being able to eat resulting in your starving. it's the nature of life. human beings are no different. we don't form social organizations and co-operative societies through some thought out rationalized concept of enlightened self interest. we do it because it's a successful and those humans who embraced it are the ones who thrived an survived passing the social mutations (empathy, love, caring, tribalism) from generation to generation.we band together and hunt down and eliminate lone predators (including criminals) for exactly that same evolutionary reason. because a rogue hunter that is a threat to one member of society is a threat to all the members of that society.that's why the existence or non-existence of killmails has no effect on how people play the game from a combat perspective. the only time you are going to see human beings engage in fair competition is when we've structured rule bound contests (ergo sports) anywhere that doesn't have rules to specifically enforce fair competition we are going to revert to norm and take what ever advantage we can find in any given situation.all the whining about blobbing or naping or carebearing or any other of the favorite subjects of the e-bushido crowd ignore this reality. people who want fair even fights play team fortress or some other structured combat simulator. part of the draw of eve in the first place is that it's structured more like rl combat. obviously not in the mechanical sense since immortal spaceship pilots aren't a part of our reality but in the way combat is done. most of the actions that affect the outcome of an encounter are done outside the actual moment of combat. from scouting to ship fittings to logistics these things matter in this game where they don't in more structured competitive environments.the killmail system does not in any way shape or form affect any aspect of combat in this game other than to provide documentation of battles and their outcomes and to provide limited intelligence on the forces used by each side in the engagementin the end they are a useful tool to those who use them properly but they are not a major factor in determining behavior."
"hello and good day to you,i've heard it's because everyone knows i make the best damn vanilla ice cream shakes in all of new eden.and for your proposal, i disagree. kill mails are a good thing, it's one of the few ways to rate a pilot. the only thing is there should be an officially sanctioned killboard available in game to prevent padding or other types of false kill mails.have a nice day :)menod penter - mayor of rens"
"in the old character designer intaki males usually had long hair that helped to make them distinctive. this has been removed, and should be re-included."
"+1 :d"
"supporting my own proposal."
"long hair option for all male races. also...chest hair for minmitar females...i mean they are minmitar...they would have chest hair right?"
"not intaki myself, but this is seriously needed."
"don't have an intaki char, but defo supported. hell, give us all the options that used to exist in the old char creator."
"agreed and supported."
"very definitely supported!"
"they've homogenized all the races. the only race with the same unique feature still evident in the character creator is the amarr with their hoods. each race had it's own unique feature as laid out below:amarr: amarr had hoods, ni-kunni had gaunt appearances, khanid were portly.caldari: deteis had cybernetics, civire had weapons on their armor, achura had earpiecesgallente: gallente had high-fashion clothing, intaki had long hair, jin-mei had oriental clothing.minmatar: brutor had sunglasses (everybody now gets them), sebiestor had facial implants and tattoos, vherokoir had tribal jewelry (now they have nearly-closed eyes)a lot of the things that made a race unique and recognizable are gone now, in the name of vanilla characters. bring back the uniqueness, or give us back our old character creator that at least let us be unique.supported."
"bumpppppppppppp"
"no, you do not understand. the latest bots do not use the client any longer. they simulate the client connection. so whenever the ice arrives it arrives, and then they send the commands back to move it into an orca. with screen recognition do you simply check the cargo load bar. if it fills it fills.do you want to change the game so that players cannot see anything and have to guess if anything happened?point is, what a human can do with bits&bytes can a computer do, too. they even play better chess than any human these days.also, please, have your ideas discussed in the features and ideas forum before you create a proposal. this is not an alternative forum to it, but the second stage. have you ideas discussed first, see what could be wrong and what could be improved before you take it to the assembly hall."
"1) do you know that there is a auto-repeat function in game?the bot will check the ice in the cargohold and shift it when needed. 2) those signals are for the player convenience, your changes would annoy players without affecting the macro/bots."
"as long as you can just warp to belt and there's automatically rocks you can mine plus mining is so stupid that you need to mine into a can and constantly activate your mining laser for no other obvious reason than just activating it, there will be bots."
"as far as i know, only proven bot prevention mechanic is the captcha system. even that can only go so far.problem is the mechanic itself and how grindy it is. mining needs more interaction rather then simply watching the paint dry. obviously a mining overhaul is required, but you won't be able to convince ccp to that.unless they add captchas, there's no way they can prevent bots, they can however get a team and aggressively ban any and all bots they see, so the threat of banning will convince your average joe that botting is dangerous.there are entire alliances that are accused of botting, every knows they do it, everyone buy ccp. unless ccp acts, i see only more bots in our future."
"captchas are completely useless now, i had a forum i run recently be overrun with 200+ spammer registrations per day until i implemented some hilarious autobanning for entering a country name in the wrong field(the bots were half dumb). there was recaptcha used and it didn't even make a dent. want to know why? there are services that bot programs now use and the bots simply take a screenshot and send it off to the service, within 10 seconds they get a response with the recaptcha answer. want to know how the service gets the answer? they farm/outsource the work to third world country areas where they pay like 10 cents for every 1000 answered.this is just dumb, they don't simulate the client connection, otherwise a single error in their packets would result in ccp banning them as thats how sensitive the protocols are. they just abuse the client in more intelligent ways. (i.e. python bots interface with eve in memory at the core level having full access to all the game functions and data, while ocr bots just replicate normal key/mouse input)."
"as a gallente player, drones are one of my primary forms of dps. however, drone behavior can be very erratic. a few times drones have aggroed large groups of ships in pve combat. i'm also not sure what there ai priorities are, but when left to there own devices they tend to spread themselves out among several targets rather than going in an order that seems more suitable, such as targeting heavy dps or electronic warfare targets. by simple adding a few more options or an ability to 'tweak' the ai priorities to follow a specified order would allow drones to be better customized for the individual user tactics or roles. this extends to logistics drones as well, such as having them set to repair/heal targets based on % of shields/armor remaining. i would also like to propose another option available to drones like the ability to target incoming missiles/bombs in a defensive capability.any constructive thoughts and opinions would be greatly appreciated on this :)fly safe"
"under control in the escape menu there are two shortcuts you may want to look at.one control of note is drone focus. it toggles whether all drones focus on one target or allowed to spread to several. i guess the spread has only been put in to help people get on more killmails easier: five drones on five different targets = five free mails. anyway, this solves the spread part of your post.second is the passive/active drone setting. setting it to passive means that drone ai is effectively disabled. drones will not do anything until you tell them to attack the specified locked target. once it is dead they come back instead of engaging another. this is near essential for missions since it will ensure that drones will not aggro what they aren't supposed to.now you may say that turning off drone ai is not a good idea: you want your drones to act on their own according to your priorities/order/tactics. i will admit that it can get annoying to send them after every damn frigate in the mission as they pop (there is a shortcut for drone engage, which makes it bearable), but i will still not support having extensive drone options.reason is simple: server-side lag.lag is not an issue during missions. now imagine a fleet of 250 jumping into a system with 250 others waiting on the other side. node is already choking while trying to load the gate grid and this is without having 250 * 5 drone objects sending it messages saying that they now decided to change their target due to some criteria. i want every tick of the server cpu to be dedicated to loading grid, updating the overview and processing guns/movement/warp commands instead of those damn drones. believe me there are few things in eve as frustrating as sitting for 40 minutes with a black screen and then loading back in station in a new pod."
"on drone settings there is a check box called focus fire when you click this the drones will not spread out as much and all move as a single swarmbut on a side note to fixing drone ai considering the fact that drones have their own targeting systems as well as being able to pick their own targets when left alone there is no reasion why you need to have a lock when you want to designate a target for the drones.so it isn't just ai the entire drone controll and inteface needs to be redone"
"ah, thank you arx and corian, i was unaware of those options! :)"
"i'd be happy already if drones did what i told them to do, i.e. if they didn't change their mind half way through."
"it is inevitable that a courier will sometimes get ganked and have to pay out a collateral to the contractor. my proposal will cut down on trap contract eg contracts where the person who posted the contract conspires to kill the freighter carrying his own equiptment. the new rule is a simple fault detection system. if the courier's ship is destroyed by any character on the contractors account (this includes other accounts registered on the same credit card), any member of the contractors corperation, or any member of the contractor's alliance. the contractor will forfit all fees and items and concord will transfer both the collateral and the contract reward to the courier as reimbursement for a criminal act.it is basicly the same as torching someone's car and than trying to sue them when you burn your hands. noone would get compensated for losses that they were directly responsable for"
"welcome to the sandbox!so much did you lose?"
"to be honest i fly a crane and have never lost a currior i just saw a exploit and wanted to have somthing implimented (iactually make a habbit of ripping off obvious trap contracts :) dont get me wrong piracy is a crucial part of the game and you are free to kill random indys. this is just to take care of the d<U+FFFD>sh's that intentionally kill their curriors in high sec. after all a courier cannot see the package contents and therefore can not know wether or not the 500mil is a officer module or a few tritanium stacked to be about the same size as one.in a sense it is the same as the bounty exploit where you jump in a implant free clone and use your alt to pod yourself."
"how is it a exploit to kill the courier? what if he called me a name and he coincidentally was carrying the package at the same time as when he ticked me off?i honestly do not see the justification in \"fixing\" this. one can see the contents of the contract once expected and one can take counter measures if one indeed feels it is fishy, such as waiting a few hours to run it. another option is using alts to accept contracts and contracting packages to the hauler to deliver and then contracting it back to the alt to complete the contract.you can also make it backfire hilariously on the gankers by using alts to create an identical route courier package and putting in a mix of items that look like the real package(the same quantities if lol cheap or just one of each or something) and moving that package first. (assuming it was a industrial sized package as to not lose much isk on them) :p"
"supported. either this, or make npc fill courier contracts after a while. legit contracts anywhere outside of highsec aren't getting filled, especially if it pays well. i don't see why broken mechanics should remain unfixed purely to benefit a small group of scammers. if you want to appease them, give them some free kms or isk or something. why do the rest of us have to play a broken game for their sake?"
"aessors, the problem is that there is zero risk. the gank contractor can set whatever price he likes, often with them being low enough to be a pittance to lose.the way to cut down on this is to force the reward to be a much higher percentage base of collateral, and make fees reflect collateral. if you put 100 million as collateral, you should stand to \"lose\" at least 10 million if the contract is successful. fees also should increase to discourage superhigh collateral accounts: if you are asking a billion isk collateral, you should be paying a chunk of that just to set the order up.this also is good for general quality of life. i can make far more money just shuttling npc goods from station to station with less risk than accepting any public contract.trying to make lowsec and null contracts doable would just be impossible though. if you want them to happen, you need as an alliance to blue any neut industrial, and even then pirates would be a pain."
"your reasoning is far better than the op's and the solution much better."
"perhaps a reversal of the mechanic.collateral is only paid out if the contract fails... not when its paid up front.the only difference here is the pilot is given motivation to succeed as opposed to being keen not to take it up.mentality wise.i hate the damn things simply because the stupid collateral is insanely overkill and ridiculously stupid.as a result my freighters get tons of dust on them.i'd be more likely to run those shipments if i didn't need to worry about footing the bill upfront for a measly few hundred k isk with 1 bil collateral (f### you people seriously) for a few jumps.as for the exploitation mechanic... its not as bad as it sounds.keep in mind while you have the contract... they have to track your location... you could easily mask your position in any number of ways... grab the box when owners on.. but log off until he's gone.get scouts to help.... etc.many tactics... a fix is unnecessary in this case.... but reversing the system in such a way where you have better odds of success and less at being ganked out of a ton of money... i can deal with that.ps: quick question (perhaps suggestion) can the package be passed from hand to hand to hand?the collateral remains in the hands of the contract holder but no one said the package had to stay in the same owners hands. would add a whole new plethora of piracy and theft to the game... but at the same time it would neatly dodge the gank exploit mechanic as well.i mean its no different than a pve objective item right? item can be sold... traded... and all you have to do is have it on hand to complete the contract much like a mission... amirite?"
"not supported.if you take a courier mission you have to be ready for the consequences! like getting shot!"
"exactly, and so no one take those risks. your courier contracts for anything outside highsec won't get filled if payment is too low, if payment is high, they think it's a scam. your non-highsec courier contracts don't get filled, period. it's like how yerr-pirates want more ganking pve fit carebears in lowsec by making it easier. this is a mmo, not sigleplayer. you don't get players to act like rats. all you end up is abandoned aspects of game."
"it happens you just need to be prepared for it or start to outsmart them. like accept the contract with an alt and have another character transport the contract."
"the problem is, why bother? it doesn't actually hurt the people wanting to run courier contracts, there's lots of other more profitable things to do. it hurts people who wants things moved."
"as a high-volume shipper i can't support any of the suggested changes in this thread. some of them will actually hurt the public shipping industry.not supported"
"i support this, not because i think eve shouldn't be a harsh world, or because i'm a carebear who wants risk to be lowered, or anything of the sort. i would like to see this because, as it stands now, using courier contracts for the purpose that it's used for is more of an exploit than a scam (bar a few cases like delivering out to 0.0 to stations that you can't dock at, those are reasonable scams). courier contracts, just like everything else in a game, need to have a legitimate use and function, and as they are now, they don't."
"against. this proposal is silly."
"its not exactly hard to scout, accept the courier on a disposable alt and trade package to the hauler, or simply not accept couriers to areas you arent familiar with.not supported."
"for people worried about gank-bait contracts:find high-paying courier contracts in high secaccept with your mainhaul the package with an npc corp alt???profit!also, as i've issued nearly 2500 courier contracts over the last year, with only a single failure, i tend to disagree with claims that these have no legitimate use.for people complaining about low payouts - remember who your competitors are:red frog freight, who accept any highsec contract up to 1bn isk collateral and 860k m^3, in return for a fee of 500k + 350k per jumppeople who are making the journey anyway, who happen to have spare capacity, and will accept any contract, no matter how small the payout (especially for small loads moved between the major hubs)finally, for the doubters, i know of at least one corp specialising in low-sec logistics - it can be done, but of course it requires more effort than highsec afk hauling.pretty much every purported issue raised by anyone in this thread is baseless, and don't even get me started on some of the proposed 'fixes'."
"you missed the entire thread. go read it."
"i would like to see an in-game calendar that corp and alliance leaders and post events to. just like the calendar in eve-gate. make them link together as well. i know you can already access eve-gate through the in game browser but make the calendar an icon that can be clicked on the neocom. there is a calculator, notepad and even a music player but no calendar. this would make it easier to notify people of events such as cta's and whatnot. it is rather annoying to have to filter through emails daily just to find out whats going on. it's especially annoying when you are a part of a large alliance with many things going on all at once."
"there is a in-game calendar and it already is hooked up to fail gate.are own members really this dumb?here's a hi-res screenshot"
"nevermind...found it. didn't know you could click on the time in the bottom left corner. learn something new every day."
"the \"blink\" needs to have its own settings, this way you can control the lighting, or brightness of the blink and also a blink color for each window, for example, my corp window above corp (x) would be a green light that slowly brightens to where it is easily visible. while my alliance window could be blue. i would think this would be a simple task and well needed."
"imo it's better to allow couriers to see the content of contracts. this way they can see a trap before accepting it."
"not better for the people making the trap."
"fix the bounty system so i know who has put a bounty on my head and so anybody can go after anybody with a bounty and perhaps bounty hunter contract types?"
"i read in coad about creating a cost for having standing lists and would like to see something like it implemented.first 4 blue standings are freefirst 4 red standings are freeevery 4 after that there is a cost.every 4 after that its double the initial costevery 4 after that quadruple the intial cost and so on.this may go well with breaking apart the bigger coalitions and cause internal rifts. we already pay for war dec's, why not for standing lists."
"no, not supported at all. what do you really think this would accomplish? for one, it would bring a sledgehammer on nrds corp/alliances, which are already hampered by the existing standings system and its 300 slot limit.what we do need is an extended limit, not a nerf to the whole system."
"old troll is old."
"3 new features should be added.1. inability to cloak2. inability to dock3. sansha forces to attack starbases, careless of if the incursion is in highsec / lowsec / 0.0now before i get flamed for this, the reason i have suggested the above is to promote pvp in incursion constellations, it also prevents hisec 1 man corps from dropping poses and then jumping alliances if they are at war.remove the hand holding ccp, make incursions pve and pvpoh and since incursions only affect a few constellations at a time, this would encourage different trade hubs and strategies."
"1 maybe2 no3 hell noif you pvp in highsec your a scrub in the first place go to low, go to null, go to a wh if you want pew pew"
"sounds like a good idea. i remember hearing an awesome rumor a while ago that incursions would turn off concord over time effectively turning highsec into lowsec while the incursion is happening.right not incursions don't feel like an invasion, just a minor inconvenience. the way they are now imagine if an incursion happened in jita. people wouldn't be able to belt rat or belt mine because of the sansha but otherwise it's business as usual. people can still dock up, buy, sell, and be protected by concord.1. incursions shut off concord after a while2. incursions shut off the local buying and selling after a while3. incursions spawn gate rats more often (with scrams + webs)4. incursions spawn station rats also with scams + webs5. incursions turn off mission agents6. when the incursion commander shows up he probes people down and warps on top of them with a small gang of sansha to mess them up.now imagine if that incursion hit jita! people would notice then."
"did you miss the part where i said \"remove the hand holding ccp, make incursions pve and pvp\", evading wars by joining alliances sucks, sansha can easily fix this.everything needs a risk, oh and the docking comment was todo with lowsec / 0.0, killing docking games :p and promoting new trade hubs in hi sec.the cloaking thing was to introduce a new type of pvp in lowsec / 0.0 but i should mention it only applies to normal cloaks not black ops / covert cloaks ;)"
"how about no."
"i'm going to go with no. they are supposed to be sansha raids into a hostile territory. raids as in surprise attack by a small force for the purpose of seizing goods and valuables. that is why they chose the term incursion and not invasion."
"eve is long overdue for another bugfix and balance patch.* balance the t3 ships across races.* balance the t3 subs against each other.* balance passive shields versus other forms of tanking, especially in neut-heavy environments.* fix that stupid fleet booster bug.* take a look at hybrid turret damage.* tweak the sleeper salvage drops. again."
"say what?"
"what?"
"i would like to see:railguns become interesting in bs's fleets witch means:fix rails and blastersfix t2 ammo drawbacknew t2/3 ammo using different sort of main dmg, for t3 type same dmg but inflicting penalitys to the targetfix gallente ships: t1 t2 t3 versions, bonus role and racial bonus, hybrids and armor mods fitting requirements, drones bonus (drone people? haha good that one)make battleships think twice the smaller ship gangs before engage, outnumber a battleship today is about 2skilled pilots, make this number become about 10 or 15 (for c's and bc's size.increase significantly the price/materials required to med/small rigs/weapons/modschange mission/plex gates: the pilot can \"block\" the gateno insurance reimborsement for gankerstake out of the game combat probes, endeed, the sisters of eve lost the plans of those when one of their transporst was ganked by the sanchas incursions. there is no way out to recover this technologie coming from jovians.supercapitals and titans abble to dock with super-titanic penalities requesting large fleets to insure the safty of those ones and gigantic docking fees.the commander being abble to command his own drones to repair him self without being abble to self target:right clic menu, drones folder: use-self -it's not roquet science0.0 alliances/corporations/habitants: to get in to high sec space must pay the right to come out there, the same way they already do to any one coming in their space, if they don't they can't get in high sec space.any good coming from 0.0 paying import taxes to empire, they can win billions in a sc afk while in high sec is about 25m alliances and corporations taking showers of trillions and building titans like frigs. it's time that the empire governors take a closer look in to those ones books if they try to import or travel in.make pvp become real pvp and no more killmails-rush.give aka-roxxors-killmail runners arenas or deadspace pockets where they win cooper medals for being big rooxors of the 15/1make the ransoms become more interesting than the killmail.make pirates have their own structures completly apart from those of empire or player build structures, indetectable, expensive, giving bonus to their scan and ransom payback, heavy drawback to repair and a few ideas that i keep for my self :pi have a lot more but they are all fixes so i stop here :p"
"eve online: desolate frontieri would like to see the sovereignty system have a major overhaul, specifically to de-link dps blobs from capturing space, and making it easier for small alliances to actually establish a foothold in nullsec without being wiped out.the functions of pos could be simplified to the extent that, rather than towers and modules, they could just be sold as objects with various attributes (e.g., mining pos, storage pos, etc). the career arc for mining could be expanded with escalating non-scannable mining sites, creating a new prospecting/deep space mining career. and lastly, i would like to see a new section of claimable space, adjacent to k-space except with no stargates.anyways, i wrote up a very long/technical proposal for all this awhile ago."
"my ideal expansion?how about none!!!not kidding.we are fed up with the new content crap.... yes its great.... yes its shiny... we get that... we don't mind... much.what we do have a problem with is the increasing number of bugs and glitches that are constantly ignored/overlooked/skipped past and shelved for so long it hurts.an entire expansion dedicated to one task and one task only.... polishing the game.make the game better.... fix the glitches... no new content... just fix the content we got.if they spent an entire expansion develop bracket to just that... i dare say they might actually get a ton more subscribers back.and i while i normally don't go out on a limb to say \"we\"... i think its quite clear everyone is in agreement... fix... not expand!"
"yesyesok sureyesyes also t3 frigates, or destroyers to encourage people to fly the thingsactually this would help with inflation oddly enough. or more lp rewards over isk even in 0.0yeah screw those guys!sure why notyestake out jump bridges altogether. this will kill bloated nullsec empires.yes!also i keep hearing that some features promised in dominion and quantum rise never got put in place. we could always go back and finish that up."
"honestly i look forward to seeing a good article regarding effective pvp piloting of any destroyer including fittings and tactics would be a welcome solution to this conversation.i personally still think that destroyers should actually be resized but that is a personal view because i do not think they should be the same basic size as most cruiserspersonally i just want destoryers to actually be considered a viable pvp threat."
"i want destroyers have a special ability to detect cloaked ships. like in rl destroyers hunt down submarines with sonar.use a special scanner to detect approximate position of cloaked ship in system, and take about 3 min to find one cloaked ship within system standing still."
"your idea will just cause the creation of afk cloaky macros. see: the cold war"
"simple, effective and useful. fully supported."
"i was every 5hrsi had 20 extractors and 4 refinerys.i have now 1 refinery and 10 extractors. i used to get 10,000 units of refined noble metals in about a week i now get 1000 units. dont tell me this was not a nerf. team pi stop hiding away and start facing the music. in my eyes pi was stealth nerf'd and now you hide away and will not answer our calls in the forum sections. why did you nerf pi, what thought went into the nerf and changes, hey do you even play pi for more that 1 hour testing ?face the music ccp, start talking and stop hiding. explain why my pi has dropped so much, why your ecu's need so much power grid.just give me back the click fest atleast we knew where we stood"
"the way the system works now, it's much easier to make a lot of p3 actually. gather each resource one at a time, on 24-48 hour cycles, use the same processors each time to make whatever p1 good you need, and once you've built up equal numbers of everything, run some advanced processors."
"i noticed one of the biggest issues here in ah isn't on that list. all the botting that's going on. there's usually two or three threads on the first page about the rampant and unchecked botting that's going on ingame."
"yes"
"supported."
"supported"
"rescue bump!"
"super-capitals are supposedly alliance level assets. if an individual buys one and fails to get support when moving it .. coup-de-grace. eve is a better game without fools in super-capitalssub-caps do not rely on the cloaked recharge for getting out of a pickle like capitals do.sub-caps have cap boosters and generally have a lot of cap just from recharge while warping to safe.in short, they are affected but it has no significant impact on their operation in 99% of cases."
"let's make it more juicy then. the cyno ship gets blown up, and the ship making the jump appears in a random system in their jump range, at 'jump speed' from which it takes a looong time to actually slow down and be able to turn, and with a 'heavy spatial field distortion' thingy, that shows up on overview //typos///omg more typos"
"since missiles have to fire in all direction, including right above and below you, i'm beginning to see why missiles appear ex nihilo. unless ships were outfitted with visible launchers on each side of the ship (fugly), a more realistic animation in this regard may be hard to achieve."
"this is a very good point and one that i've thought on some. if the fb fix was used, this is less trouble as you can simply put in a graphic code much like other games that don't use real-time missiles. be aware i have no idea how to program but in other games this is what you see:missile launches from point a and flies straight to circumference point b then at a radius of c rotates around point b until aligned at target and continues on. if i had a picture i'd show you but effectively the missile launches, flies to a set 'sphere' that surrounds the ship, based on the ship size, before it pulls a small u-turn towards the target, causing it to fly around (and not through) the launching ship. imagine a real-world battleship firing a missile forwards at a target behind it - you see the missile launch straight or at an angle, then do a half loop backwards and over the battleship towards its target (not hitting the battleship of course).edit: for those of you wondering about flight time calculation (we want to try and avoid skill changes of course), the flight time is calculated from the sphere surrounding the ship which at most would be maybe 500m for a battleship. the sphere doesn't necessarily need to be circular either, it could be a much smaller 'shaped' form for the missiles to base on. again, i'm no programmer. the point is, if missiles take longer to reach a target behind them graphically we don't want the pilot penalized another 1km on his flight time. a potential work around is that the missiles move faster or slower graphically in the first moments of launch based on direction, then follow a set standard speed (like now) to the target. this gives the illusion of launching at different vectors but maintains a standard for the damage-side of things to work from.if turret-like launchers are used (which i prefer not) many ships need new skins to accommodate the needed hardpoints on top of the existing turret hardpoints. for example the tempest only has 6 spots for turrets, another two would be needed for the launchers. my idea has the big box on its side (which i've always assumed to be the two launchers) should do the launching. but...turret launchers don't need to have missiles redirected as only the launchers facing the target would work.all in all, keep the points coming but remember: this thread is calling for the development of a better missile launch graphic and has not explicitly chosen a particular style. how the devs want to go about doing that is their call, but i encourage everyone to post their idea on this thread so they have a pool to draw from.i would also like to see more csm and/or dev support...if a missile update can potentially reduce lag some more, who wouldn't want to look into this?"
"1.0"
"i started eve missioning as caldari. watching missiles fly out of my cockpit did not leave a good impression. it still doesn't."
"interesting... and+1"
"if you google the eve and bot words together, you'll find pretty interesting results. no, you won't be able to find a bot, most likely you'll get keylogged in the process, actual bot developers don't have their websites on front. what you will find are the forums. where you will see the tips for botting, how to do it without getting banned, what will get you banned and what will prevent you from getting unbanned. obviously because of eula, i won't go into details. just wanted to say this. it is common knowledge that if you don't go rmt approach, ccp will pretty much let you bot as long as you want unless, someone reports it. even then you can contest the issue and get your account back.on these sites you'll see why ganking them doesn't work. because majority of them are macroing in 0.0 and capable of going to a safespot when someone else enters the system.seriously, try and google it. then you'll actually see how ****ed the current situation is.also, if you see a bot, report him, don't ignore it thinking it someone else would. apparently thats the only way to force ccp to take action against them.edited for support"
"to defeat the bot we must understand the bot. outside of rmt most people bot because making isk otherwise is dull, time consuming and not fun. botting is also so rampant now that i've no doubt that if there was a mass banning of personal bots there would be a tremendous knock on effect to the rest of the economy.tackling botting requires a multifaceted approach. engineering the game in such a way so that it is harder to bot certain activities. making these activities more fun and possibly more rewarding in the process and a gradual phased culling of the bot so that the percentage of known bots is steadily reduced over time in an effort to ween the economy off the massive inflow of botted isk.this is something i'd like to see the next csm address and will personally champion with much vigour if i win a seat on the council."
"i'll support this, not because i particularly care about bots, but because i think it would be interesting to see what comes out of csm and ccp talking about bots."
"aggressive banning of bots will act as a deterrent factor."
"support. there is also actually a lot of \"market\" bots at jita actually, easy to spot, very active and still not banned.sometimes you manage to f*** them, but in the end, they always win..."
"this is a pair of proposals that i have been mulling over for the last month or so.proposal 1: let us name corporate hangars and ship maintenance arrays at a pos. we can name assembly arrays, so let's bring the corporate hangars and smas the same ease of use. i realize this is a small small thing compared to everything that is wrong with the pos, but if we can't have filet mignon, i'll take hamburger. this would make it a thousand times easier to find things.proposal 2: right click> show fitting. i am very very very tired of having to get into a ship to see what's on it or trying to name it something useful so i can remember. add a right click menu option to show us the fittings, even if it's just a simple text list. and yes, i know you can do this from assets (show contents), but this does not work for ships in sma's.edit: changed the title of the post - let's see if anyone else stops in now."
"edit: failure at reading. supported."
"sounds good to me."
"living out of a pos would be easier if we could name all the structures :)"
"both good ideas. i like."
"i will now support this as i do not wish to be flying a mission and have a random noctis warp in and steal my loot. however since you can now bandon wrecks there is no reason that i should not be able to shoot said noctis when it tries to salvage my wrecks. not supported if it will help ninja salvagers supported if i can get kill rights on said ninja salvagerson a side not why not make abandoned wrecks probable while claimed wrecks remain un probeble"
"wait what? gathering intel means nothing to you? being able to pick and choose who to engage while being undocked means nothing to you? being able to halt pve ops in a system is nothing to you?if you are for making unprobable ships probable then by extension it should also apply to cloaked ships."
"i don't support being able to probe down wrecks but for an entirely in-game/character reason. wrecks do not emit any power signals for probes to 'lock on' to so it would not make sense to be able to scan them down with probes."
"1.0"
"there's already a thread on this...ahh well, i'll support this one also for the same reasons i supported the other one."
"time to get the exterminators in. eve is infested."
"1.0"
"what anger? i am wholly and utterly indifferent.the way i see it, the entities without fat moons available use them as alternative isk faucets. income appears to be about the same if going by the even growth of super-capitals across the cluster, so \"meh\".besides, even if ccp managed to find some method hitherto unknown to the entire gaming industry, the markets would crash for pretty much all items."
"oh yeah so there is no problems ? then why mining if a bot can do ? why losing time to update market orders if a bot can do ? why farming rats in 0.0 whereas bots could do it for you 24/7 ?you convinced me, i'm going straight to find an effective bot !how do you get your isk already ? i hope it's by producing or ganking indus cause if not, start botting man !\"...\""
"ban the bot plz."
"the bots are everywhere! even in the most remote regions of low sec i still encounter two to three unique bots each day. and i know for a fact that these bots are not getting banned. reporting them yields no results months after the petition is filed.if ccp is dealing with these bots behind the scenes, we the playerbase certainly don't see it. perception is reality and what we perceive is a game becoming increasingly saturated with bots in all corners of the galaxy while ccp sits idly on their hands.if it continues to get worse, eve will eventually turn into lineage 2 or ffxi. they're so full of bots that even the starting zones are full of them. the devs in those games simply gave up and quit trying to combat the infestation.there's almost nowhere i can go where i won't encounter a bot anymore with the exception of wh's and *some* null sec regions. to add insult to injury, it's arguably the most discussed issue here in ah, yet it's not being put on the table by the csms."
"sure there is, but there is no realistic solution to them. how the hell do you and others expect ccp to solve a problem that has had the entire industry on its knees since mmo's became mainstream?ccp are pretty damn good but they are not gods.now, if the op had asked for a context menu item similar to what we have for reporting isk spammers then i am all for it. but generic emo-threads serves no purpose other than dilute the issues raised.ps: made my isk inventing, manufacturing, exploring and ratting .. you know, playing the game."
"bots cause lag.two birds with one stone."
"keyboard macros which simply press many keys in sequence with no repeating or decision making, are perfectly fine under the tos.i'm not in favour of ccp reporting numbers of bots banned. i am in favour of some system allowing people to attack and destroy the ships of people suspected of running bots. for example, being able to be in space with a ship carrying weapons, which could then be activated against the \"bad guy\"."
"agree"
"you dislike change, you hide and enjoy solo mining. you are asking to be ganked."
"not supported. on one of my old mining characters, i found it excessively simple to find a decent system to mine in, and judge the activity in the system without this proposed feature. also, i'm not sure why you want to add more info for pvpers in such a way. honestly, it would only help in low/nullsec (if anyone actually does mine in low sec... not many, i'm sure), and this sort of info should be obtained manually by a scout, not a few clicks of the map.so again, i really don't think this is a very good idea."
"supported.how about a filter showing quality of belts as well."
"agreed, this is an adult game. i mean come on, they are still in their underwear."
"it may seem like a small thing, but it shows you where ccp is headed, a parent friendly game."
"my fellow amarr would gladly chop off my legs at the hem of my dress, so no showing leg from me! (or chest: god would personally kill me)but i support more diversity & customization."
"+1 for shirtless, there are some minor tweeks i've been wanting to make to my portrait but have been unable too because i don't want to be forced into a shirt."
"supported."
"supported. or at least give us a real explanation why not."
"what we probably dont know is the teen player-base is growing to the point where ccp doesn't want to upset parents."
"besides that now that the noctis has been introduced as well as other specialized ships i believe there should be dedicated gas harvesting platform that gets some sort of bonuses to harvesting. perhaps create another variation on the noctis/primae platform."
"just remember that increasing yield/hr will reduce the value of the item you're collecting."
"they currently have two teams working what i would consider iterative development of past features: team best friends forever is apparently dedicated to csm-specified low-hanging fruit and strongly supported issues from the assembly hall. and team gridlock is working on lag (which i consider a \"feature\" introduced by dominion ).a lot of stuff is not on the assembly hall list, though, so the main push would be to keep team best friends forever perpetual.as i state in a blog post i wrote on the subject, incursions and incarna are just going to rot on the vine unless ccp makes iterative development of past features part of their culture and dna."
"this code has been broken for years.plex spawning mechanic does not work for any part of the game for which it has been implemented.each time ccp release a new area of gameplay it is adversely effected by this broken code and never reaches it's full potential.both faction war (for years) and now incursions suffer from bugged plex that will not despawn.both faction war (for years) and now incursions suffer from bugged plex spawning that means within hours of downtime no plex can be spawned.fix this one bit of code and magically fw and incursions will actually be playable beyond downtime.currently your features sound fine, they look right on paper, they kinda work for a few hours a day.this broken spawning mechanic turns these features that sound right into something that can never work the way it is described."
"not supported; why bother if the players won't even come in to defend the plex?-lianged: i'm all for fixing fw - but i don't really want them wasting time on temporary fixes."
"absolutely. also, while nothing comes to mind specifically, keep in mind the colorblind as well. (like me!)"
"so, do expand on that. how could the ui suit the needs of a color-blind person?"
"a small team, gathered around patch time.this team creates test cases and experiments to ensure eve patches conform to the usability and accessibility issues they've identified.some alliances pain-killers and hot nurses are the main topic of idle discussion."
"please allow larger text sizes. even if not a full range of sizes, at least normal, large, x-large.please, please, please make this happen."
"why stop there? fix the colorblind issues as well.-liang"
"looking at the history of incursions so far:araz -> kakoljoas -> kalanginit appears they already do spread to neighboring constellations, even if completed. (perhaps if they're not completed within x days.)watching now to see what happens in the constellations near algintal, as that one was completed the fastest."
"the 2 gallente incursions were the first to go down. neither spawned nearby. i don't think it's a factor atm."
"i like this idea."
"^this part supported"
"+1nullsec alliances could also curate sansha incursions to give them free cynojamming in border systems."
"why cant i look at my orders in 1 page and my transactions in another? i propose we seperate them so you can see both at the same time. currently they're tabbed together, i have to look at orders sold by pushing load. then go back to my oreders tab to see if that item is needing to be bought more of for my resales. i gotta go thruough 30 to 40 items this way. jita's lag has been a problem. it takes longer to get in and out of jita working on market orders this way. this may help people make market transaction decisions faster and get out, reducing the population in jita faster. which reduces the lag in market transactions as well."
"i'm with ya on this. i fly with my corp for these things, so the incursion channel is useless."
"we don't need incursions to be annoying. we have you.-windjammer"
"how hard is it to minimize the window?"
"kind of besides the point, imagine that a constellation channel opened up whenever you entered a new area.sure you can close it, but it is a hassle if it just continues to reappear.there is a snazzy notification box that pops up in incursion areas. add an \"open channel\" button to that instead of auto-opening it."
"supported. if there is an incursion anywhere that matters or is relevant to you or your plans, you will know about it via your alliance/corporation forums, mail, or whatever. seeing as how the vast majority of organized groups in eve communicate via in-game or out-of-game mass media limited to desired participants, the incursion channel is superfluous. i would even go so far as to say that, judging by the performance of random idiots joining incursion gangs in their special snowflake ships and being slaughtered, that the incursion channel is more of a detriment even to solo or small-group players than it is a boon."
"supporting my own thread."
"please allow changing bloodlines in our race so we can make avatars that we like please"
"now that i know you are famous and still active i would like to collect a killmail from you. is that so wrong?"
"hello and good day to you,i welcome your visit and would be more then happy to entertain you while you try to fulfill your fantasy. my home (as many know) is in rens and you can find my office located in the rens vi moon 8 - brutor tribe treasury.if i'm not around then please feel free to to play with the local pilots, place a can outside the station and have a blast while you wait for my arrival. have a nice day :)menod penter - mayor of rens"
"this thread failed at point where someone hinted that fair fights are actually some kind of point in this game. fights are decided already before they start. what you see in killmails is the result.i'm 100% sure this is a troll. but anyhow. bored enough to post."
"ha! of course its a troll and never has any chance of being implemented. but like all good trolls, there's an element of truth to it. i believe we would see more pvp - solo, small gang, and fighting outnumbered - if it was simply an isk loss instead of also an efficiency loss on the killboard. as an example, that's why \"elite\" pvp alliances will demand everyone dock up instead of risk a losing fight when people roam their space. afterall, that 90% efficiency is hard to maintain when people fight outnumbered or they fight prepared enemies.basically: killmails by themselves aren't such a bad thing - its the social constructs that have been built around them that are \"the problem\".-liang"
"supported"
"it is more about odds being stacked to the point of being impossible to overcome reasonably, than it is about being fair. i've never been afraid to fight against the odds, but what is the point of undocking when the only thing out there to fight are gangs you have no chance of actually hurting, nevermind beating without bringing a blob of your own?"
"this is a friggin space game what reason could there be that some races can not wear certain things? or have certain hair cuts?i want my vherokoir with a hood or at least a robe like in the old editor and long hair or even better the old standing up hair style"
"they are minmatar not persian...but yeah i would like to look like my hair is clean... not like some bum who hasent showered in months..."
"to be honest, there's no reason at all why long/short hair should be restricted to various races. do the people of the future find it impossible to grow hair...? like many other limitations with the character creator, this limitation makes no sense."
"supported"
"supported. the amarr seem to have the only finished character creator."
"aye, long hair for all races and bloodlines."
"not supported.try acting like men for once..."
"some of the manliest men have long hair.but yeah, i'll vote for more girly men in eve."
"yup i miss my hair"
"there isn't any technical reason why everyone couldn't have access to all haircuts. they just plug into the back of the scalp model."
"i ask that people read this entire post before flaming me or writing this off as a stupid idea. i have been reading on these forums for a while now, and lately i have noticed a very valid trend that is popping up. everyone agrees that supercarriers are op. while everyone has their own opinions on how and where to nerf them, i had a different take on it. while i currently believe that ccp should make all supercaps equal, these are 20-60billion isk ships they should all be mostly equal, i also think that there should be a fix for these massive fleets that are needed to take them out. so we come to my idea on this. create a new class of ship specifically designed to kill capitals and supercapitals. capital hunters would use the tier 2 battlecruiser hulls, would only have 5 guns, and would be inferior in every way excluding the tank of their t1 counter part. against sub caps, these ships would be nearly useless as most t1 bc and some t1 cruisers would be better. but with the addition of another item to the game, lets call it a strategic targeting system, it gets a ten percent bonus per level to the damage it deals to capital ships, and a fifteen percent bonus per level to supercapital ships. and for the rp crowd, to make this viable as a storyline thing, lets say it locates the weakpoints on large ships that larger ships are simply unable to hit precisely to take advantage of, and smaller ships simply do not do enough damage to effectively exploit. the bonus to the guns would be on the module itself to avoid giving a ship too many bonuses. to better elaborate, lets say that we have a t2 harby. lets say it is called a bishop. it uses 5 guns, and has the tank of an absolution. it has the normal harbinger hull bonuses, and a role bonus of 95-100 percent reduction in the cpu need of the targeting module. now the obvious question about these ships is deployment. simply warping in and motoring within range would probably not work out well because any fc worth his salt would call primary, or have pilots on standby that are only there to kill these ships. so the obvious solution would be to jump them in, or get really good warp ins. well instead of fitting these ships with jump drives, how about we have another module that is fit into the high slot that when activated allows the ship to use a black ops portal. activating this module requires no cap, however when you use the jump portal, your cap is drained depending on your skill level. at level 1, 75 percent, at level 5, 50 percent. the downside to this is the ship is unable to use jump bridges either titan or pos. stargates are unaffected. the downsides to these ships are pretty obvious. they are not very powerful vs subcap ships. any t1 bc could kill a capital hunter in a 1 on 1 fight 9/10 times. using the strategic targeting module significantly increases the sig radius. they only have one role and are otherwise useless. the bonuses to these ships, is it would create situations where it would be relatively easy to kill a capital that is alone. ie a nyx ratting in a belt in 0 or a carrier used by militia in low sec. it would decrease the need for super large fleets to kill supercaps. if you see an aeon outside of a pos, you get a cloaky 10k off of him and then you light the cyno. fifty of these ships and a black ops jumps through. two minutes later, you have a dead aeon."
"its a needed role but its more interesting to make a superbomber.... a t2 bc hull that can launch cap torps. something like 2.5-3k dps. no covert cloak ofc."
"simpler solution would be to make dreads more usefull again."
"this. better non-siege dps and better sieged tracking, for instance."
"to be honest i read everything and i can't agree with you.wy create a new ship while battleships that fitted cost 5 to 10 or more than any battlecruiser for the lowest battleship price and can be easly ganked maikng these obsolete for anything else than two options: sniper fleets agains sniper fleets/drakes blobs or missions. wow what exciting class ship asking you months of training and be prerequisite at lvl 5 for capital fighting ships when your game with is very limited.before creating a new ship i would like to see the existant ones get some love, like gallente ships and all of them including dreadnaughts. when this is donne the right way then we should look if those changes have any influence on c's and sc's op"
"let's look at this a bit closer, and remember that these complaints will apply to all \"lets make a new ship x that only kills caps/supercaps\":ship meaningfully damaging supercapitals:=> obsoletes capitals that do not have supercapital ehp=> further obsoletes dreads by taking their roledoes not meaningfully damage subcaps:=> is useless outside of preplanned cap/supercap ganks=> will never be taken on roams as its just a liabilityis virtually impossible for caps/supercaps to kill:=> rock/paper/scissors in the worst possible way. terrible game balancingadditionally, it still doesn't address the difficulty of tackling supercaps (whether alone or in groups).-liang"
"how about an alternative module for dreadnaughts increasing their anti-capital role.siege module fitted dreads and titans for pos bashing, other module for cap/supcap fights.this other module, which should be for dreads only, would increase tracking/fire rates/rate of fire/range while increasing cap demands for the guns and/or reducing the self repair/remote repair rates."
"perhaps instead of boosting dreads or nerfing super caps, we could just allow dreads and regular carriers into high sec and ease their entrance and exit into wormholes while at the same time keeping the super caps limited to low and null sec.there's plenty of high sec pos towers whose owners believe they're much safer there than in low or null sec. and wh's are littered with abandoned pos towers. the logistics behind taking down a tower in a wh are excruciating to say the least."
"i like the idea of a cap killer ship, but it already exists. make dreadnoughts viable again, and you don't need to add anything new."
"the eve creation character it's not fully \"finished\" yet, and because of it, there are differences between the ways to make each character on each version. by this situation, i purpose that ccp allow us to remake our characters each update that the system suffers.or at least, let us to change our character a bit times (3 times for example) before the final version.i'm sure about you could understand that the actual character creation it's so complicated than the last, and obtain the optimal version of your portrait might need and iterative process."
"i would like to redo my portrait. didn't quite come out like i had hoped.i'll support this."
"wow you really don't know how to read up on the update do you? ccp has already read that as they update character creater they will allow again for players to update profile. if someone could link that so i dont have to find it. or you could just search around for it."
"hello, i have yet to see ccp look in to way to have stop anything to do with timers in game. wont it just be easier to stop all timers when servers go down? so i'm asking csm to look in to fact of having ccp, turn off timers. just makes life easier! as it's big problem right now, between alliances shooting towers, tcu, and many other things if your not playing then you don't get extra count down."
"yes, stop the skill timers during dt!"
"do you know how incredibly annoying it would be for everything to slip by an hour every day?"
"ok, so all timers stop for, let's say, .5 hours per day, this would include training also. now all the players want to be compensated because they don't have the ability to train as quickly as players did before the time stops started.not supported due to the nightmare of whining that will ensue."
"yeah scanning in a wormhole is a complete ***** since this change."
"supported."
"i would like to ocasionaly purchase a plex but the cheapest option on the website is to buy a package of 2 for around 30 usd there is no logical reason why plexes are not available in units of one for around 15 usd and frankly i have a feeling ccp would make more money from the ocasional plex buyer if they allowed the sale of individule plexes on the website"
"who are you asking to \"force\" ccp to do anything?the csm has the authority to \"make a suggestion which has to be taken seriously\"."
"someone has been fishing in wow too much."
"protip: this checkbox is infamously unreliable and particularly in the case of sentry drones will still result in them going off and deciding to engage whatever they like.i suppose at least they don't attack friendlies. as detailed here:"
"give them incursion sansha ai."
"i am not going to read all of the replies to this, because they are probably all bashing your stupid idea.i am going to bash it more.stupid idea."
"do you even know what the csm is about? as a veteran member, we're a liaison and advisory council. i'd like to know how you plan to achieve this grandiose concept, or what methodology you would use to detect said enemies.i'm not saying that i agree with what ccp has been doing with project unholy rage or any other initiative, but this idea is ludicrous. unless you can demonstrate a reason for me to vote for you, i doubt you'll get few (if any) votes, except from your close friends."
"csm cannot force ccp to do anything. if you're running on the mistaken belief that you can, you are doomed to fail. csm can apply pressure management successfully in some cases but at the end of the day ccp will do whatever the hell it wants. if what it wants doesn't mesh with the csm's message as the voice of the community, there is not a whole lot you can do about it. also, don't fail to factor in the \"blowing sunshine up your ass\" phenomenon, wherein ccp nods politely, says all the right words to csm, and then proceeds to do...whatever the hell it wants. sure, there are quite a lot of good people working at ccp who engage with the csm in a very collaborative fashion--out of which some long-awaited changes have been delivered. but thinking you're going to force ccp to do anything is pure folly. suggest you reword that bullet point to describe something that you (and not ccp) have control of ... such as \"apply relentless pressure on ccp to act upon bots and macroers with swift justice (ban), rmters or not.\""
"(repost on this topic from an ah thread)amarr: amarr had hoods, ni-kunni had gaunt appearances, khanid were portly.caldari: deteis had cybernetics, civire had weapons on their armor, achura had earpiecesgallente: gallente had high-fashion clothing, intaki had long hair, jin-mei had oriental clothing.minmatar: brutor had sunglasses (everybody now gets them), sebiestor had facial implants and tattoos, vherokoir had tribal jewelry (now they have nearly-closed eyes)a lot of the things that made a race unique and recognizable are gone now, in the name of vanilla characters. bring back the uniqueness, or give us back our old character creator that at least let us be unique."
"one of the drawbacks of customisability ;)/me is involuntarily reminded of spore's *****monsters"
"i for one will vote for the hotest candidate avatar on the next csm election, just saying."
"so, you think avatars in stations will be like posters on the poles ? knowing nowadays ccp, who knows, but i still doubt it...or, you know, they will walk like people, lighting and angles will change every moment... never thought about that ?oh, and totally wrong forum section on top of that."
"i just wanted to point out that part of the discussion about storing and exporting settings was covered some time ago in this proposal."
"i support it big time"
"it would just be awesome!"
"bump for truth."
"i don't care how, fix the black ops."
"i honestly think that a delayed/removed local would be the best way to increase need and use of black ops. i don't honestly think the point of a black ops is to be a direct pvp boat.as it stands now, local pretty much kills any purpose of a ship like this imo, since if you can't get some other ship into the target system without being detected in order to pop a covert cyno without being detected, etc., and then jump n' gank, there's not really much point to it imo.but then again, that's just my opinion."
"i am against race change but for change of bloodline."
"thumbs up!"
"1.0"
"so, can the csm give us an update on this proposal?when is the next csm meeting? what is their agenda?what are they doing?"
"i want my bar code tattoo back!"
"lasers, projectiles and missiles have all been buffed, or at least tweaked, since i joined years ago.isn't it about time to look at eve's forgotten weapon system?"
"i'll support this on one condition. i haven't seen a single post detailing what exactly is wrong with gallente ships. i honestly have no idea, as i've never really flown gallente ships into combat.so can someone please just post a comprehensive list of what's so wrong with gallente ships that it needs fixing?"
"it's not gallente, it's hybrids... it's really the tracking/falloff of hybrids being too tight. if falloff and tracking were even 1.25x what they are now...rails would be more balanced. it's not just dps, it's more so too small a sweet spot."
"i can't understand english.not support"
"lets give the gallente some much needed love."
"i'd like to support this, but there's nothing here to support. this proposal is really just a vague affirmation that something needs to be done. we know something needs to be done, ccp knows something needs to be done, the csm knows something needs to be done - simply saying to them \"something needs to be done\" isn't going to accomplish anything.come back when you have a real proposal. flailing about madly isn't going to fix gallente."
"flailing about madly is apparently what resulted in this situation. we are ****ed off, that what this thread is saying. we are fed up with the issue getting discussed and being left at \"nobody can agree on what to do so we're going to do nothing\".that is not an acceptable response, so someone from ccp needs to speak up and give us a detailed and reasonable explanation as to why things are the way they are. i expect a detailed dev blog post, covering in depth the process and individual dynamics involved. how does ccp balance the four major factions against each other? do they have four guys or four teams of guys sitting around trying to push their own agenda? or do they just choose a fotm to work on to avoid antagonism and favoritism? is that approach honestly working? what is their blueprint or vision for faction balance? as one person said in one of these gallente balance threads - how do you wind up with a game where the melee character is also the slowest? and how do you expect that to be in any way reasonably balanced? eve might or might not be somewhat different but it is still an rpg and for a very long time the basics of how these different combat styles should function have been well established by thousands of man-hours of neckbeards squabbling in darkened rooms with game boards and dice.they need to bite the bullet and actively revisit the game balance issue by committing active resources (ie - team falcrum .. or something) to fixing it.leaving 1/4 of the game assets and players out in the cold for over two years is not ok and the most frustrating thing about it is the silence and lack of acknowledgment received from both csm and ccp. they might have more specific things to worry about but i'll reiterate what i just said - this is ruining the game for one quarter of your playerbase."
"lol on the big bold print,+1 anyway(may add this to your proposal) roleplayer reason: due to the inefficiency of non covops cloaks, all energy gernerated by the ship must be put into maintaining the cloak, all excess energy created by cap recahrgers is dumped to keep the cloak from being overloaded."
"black ops must be immune."
"supported, black ops need to use covert ops cloak though"
"it is quite obvious none of you have ever lived in a wormhole where it is require to cloak certain ships. and no i am not talking about my anathema or my pilgrim. im talking about my orca. you ever tried to pop a wormhole with an orca and the wormhole has a variance on the mass? you need to have an orca inside of a potentially hostile wormhole for a protracted period of time while you get the mass right with bc/bs. not supported."
"it is quite obvious an orca's capacitor not recharging while cloaked has nothing to do with what you are arguing about. did you read my entire proposal?<-- marlona sky by the way."
"+1 to both"
"gotta keep the movement moving..."
"beautifully put."
"it only fails completely against half the t2 ships in the game. luckily those t2 ships are fail and hardly anybody flies them in pvp."
"good point.(and bump)"
"bump."
"alias does bring about a good point with using a predesignated area for missiles to attain a distance before turning.as i mentioned in another post i had read about how the original ships of eve having these locations for separate missile launching and drone launching points on the models. they were removed in the production(beta) due to massive drawbacks of the video cards at the time.i believe a compromise could be in order. if missiles fired forward to a designated area around the ship before making a correction, then one could have a predetermined outcome of the rendering. each missile would then as alias stated, make its correction towards its target. while theoretically this could cause missile delays in flight time, maybe it would work to treat them as the missiles do when they arrive in range of the target (the \"missile whip\").as far as removing server load, i don't think that would particularly happen as the missiles would still need to converge at a certain point before making its arc, or in some cases a separate convergence outside the ship. ships inside this range would then cause for a really grotesque flight of missiles looping around in a weird ballet act.technical problems aside, a client could be coded to display the action of the missiles firing from the launchers, while the server calculates the math on its current trajectory settings with the client displaying the aforementioned \"whip\".i think until the majority of eve pilots however support machines that could render such a load, i think this will not gain support among ccp devs due to its limited access to pilots. once it gained a following though, i could see a secondary box under \"missile effects\" in the general settings tab."
"1.0"
"whilst i can appreciate the concept and explanation of a virtual sphere, from the 'edge' of wich missiles take on their final path, i foresee at least one issue: heavy assault missiles & torpedos are unguided. i'm not 100% sure how much people are willing to accept such missiles taking u-turns, immersion-wise.otherwise solid idea. :)"
"immersion-wise this is far into the future...but even now unguided missiles don't necessarily fly straight. many have a short-direction-change charge in them at initial launch...think of it as a final touch before flying the primary course to its target. an example of this is when a pilot fires an unguided torpedo at a point on a station. to compensate for the pilot's potential error, the unguided missile will 'adjust' trajectory within tenths of a second to put it on that exact line needed before traveling the full distance.limitations are not the lack of computer but fuel for unguided missiles...typically they carry much larger payloads and thus need more fuel for quick movement forward, which in turn sacrifices fuel for side movements for readjustment, as seen in guided missiles. while a u-turn is certainly a large change in direction, it is feasible during the initial 'alignment' after launch before traveling its designated path as a 'dumb' missile.to the point, it was simply a potential idea but you do have a good point. again, turret launchers may be the best bet but the missiles will definitely need the fb fix in that case...not to mention some ship skins will need adjustment (not necessarily bad, just more work). i'm personally advocating 'skin launching' but as stated, anyone is welcome to post their own idea on how to jazz up the missile launch graphic and (bonus points for this) find a way to reduce the lag that surrounds missiles."
"bumpy road."
"i don't see the point....say the game world runs on ticks, a tick is an update of the world/rendering/etc, fps depending on the game can translate to the tick rate. at the start of each tick, a set of actions is done in order, for example ship positions update, then weapons fired, etc. the end of each tick returns to the start of the tick. when lag occurs due to server side overload, the tick is already slowed down. slowing down weapon modules and movement won't do much because the server still has the same set of actions to execute in a tick.this already happens to the point weapon modules will become broken and unresponsive/stuck in a green no cycle state until you do something drastic like jump system or relog."
"this actually might work.supported"
"i agree the dram is overpowered, but people get overzealouce with the nerfbat.instead of nerfing the heck out of the dram, lets boost its underpowered rivals (like ccp did with projectiles). more ehp/speed for the worm/cruor and we are set."
"seems pretty logical to me."
"please. this is gallente/caldari's ultimate weakness!"
"die motherbotter die!"
"i."
"yay lower mineral prices"
"1.0"
"here's your reality check.if botting is as prevalent as suggested you can bet you're last dime that ccp has a very low interest in dealing with. it's pretty much a lose lose proposition for them. it's damn near impossible to tell the difference between a bot and someone playing semi-afk. it's very hard to prove short of devoting support resources to the problem which means that it costs them more money to hunt them down. add that to the fact that if they do find a botter and ban them they've lost subscription revenue.rmt gets nailed because that's competition for gtcs and frankly with the gtc system in place anyone who buys from an rmt source deserves to get banned for stupidity.the problem is that there are so many activities in the game that are tedious, repetitive, and boring. stuff at which robots excel. as long as these tedious activities exist botters will do their thing. the only way to effectively combat these programs is to scan the systems local memory and the last company that tried that crap got head bit off. many macro's actually run on vmware and isolate the client to the point where it can tell the client software any bs it wants. so you can't even reliably spot bots with a rootkit tool.the people writing these bots are just as bright and talented as the programmers the game companies employ and there are probably damned sight more of them than are on ccp's payroll.as ephemeron pointed out, many of these programs play with just as much (if not more) sophistication than a live player. in fact in many ways they are better. they don't make mistakes the best ones can tie multiple bots together so a scout on trial account can see you coming from several systems away. they can hit dscan every few seconds and react instantly to the first sign of trouble so even removing or delaying local would be of limited value in combating them.so looking at the situation realistically it would cost ccp money in developer resources to combat them, in support personal to investigate the ones identified and sort through the false positives then they'd lose the revenue from any banned accounts.honestly i think the best thing ccp could do would be to simply level the playing field as much as possible. i'd suggested before turn mining into a passive activity using some sort of mining pos and mining drones, make pi passive once setup save for picking up your loot. all threads like this and the 50 others like it really accomplish is to make people who hadn't thought about botting go \"hey there's an idea\"."
"thank you. it is a tiring affair trying to explain logistics of such a task to people who have little-to-no comprehension of what would be involved.also i am getting tired of reading a hundred+ bot threads. you want bots gone? suicide them. repeatedly. thats your \"cross to bare\" for wanting a bot free system. i see the all the time, even 10 characters of a name like \"89ds38dff01\", \"....02\", \"...03\", and so on all mining in sync. i report, and leave it up to ccp. they have a lot of petitions to go through every day that are submitted with poor/uninformed judgement on part of the players before they get to the valid ones, so sometimes they are not caught.please stop blaming ccp and csms for an environment entirely created by players even after its clear its against the eula. you want a anti-bot squad, form a coalition to purchase accounts, have everyone name it \"antibot000001\" and increase it sequentially. generate enough accounts, well, maybe ccp will do so. otherwise please, please stop repeating the same complaints about something that would cost valuable development time that would involve a devoted team."
"while you two are correct, you are missing the other issue.bots hurt games. its that simple. i have no illusion of a game that doesn't have one, but excessive botting have been proven time and again to hurt the game in long run.as you said in your posts, ccp is perfectly happy with them in their game because they pay for their accounts (via plex). that means we'll see occasional pr stunt about the bots (aka unholy rage) until the next great bot whine thread marathon starts.current mechanics makes it extremely easy to bot, proper way to battle the bots long term would be changing mechanics to be more responsive. we all know ccp doesn't want to change anything with mechanics. they just like to put new stuff on the table without touching the old stuff. problem with this approach is obvious. they have to make more frequent bot purges if they want to keep going in that direction. ccp also lacks any desire on this department.current bots are impossible to detect via data-mining. but they are still oblivious to the most basic method of bot check (o hai thar). at this point it is probably cheaper to assign 1 gm for active bot search instead of wasting developer time for creating complicated bot detection methods.it is well known and documented. ccp only cares about something when it becomes bad press. that is the only thing they care about. its like the whole company is being run by marketing department alone. if there's no whine threadnoughts, if there's no bad press, then the problem simply doesn't exists for ccp. csm by definition, is a marketing stunt, which means they actually have the opportunity to actually talk with ccp about this issue.yes i realize last csm talked about bots, yes i saw that devblog about macros. i also see how they specifically ignore the threads (to give devs some credit, they have to).as for the matter dealing with bots yourself, well, if i can identify and deal with the bots myself, imagine what ccp can do about them if they put their mind into it finally, amount of bot threads will only increase until ccp does something about the problem. so, if you want bot threads to stop, click that support the topic tick instead of advocating for bots."
"honestly, incursion is another huge swipe at bots. i hope ccp continues to iterate on that. as content continues to be less static and become more dynamic, bots have to increase in complexity or simply disappear. you can look back to the old school static plexes and the farming of those plexes. ccp made them dynamic and bots had to shift to something else.captain, she's got plenty of power, you'll just have to be patient. - scotty"
"inability to view fittings has caused me much grief."
"its the smallest things which cuase the biggest headaches."
"edit: i should learn to read the entire post before replying :("
"no worries dear. i am guilty of that myself from time to time.while i agree, i'm hoping that by asking for something small we might at least get ccp to do more than go \"no that's hard.\""
"both ideas are fair requests."
"yep on both"
"so i am going to bump this just because it's time for ccp to tackle some little things that make us happy.csm - throw this on the pile, please and thanks?"
"why not?"
"ninja salvage? cheap scanning frig or dessie. only risk is the missioner running out and you not being fast enough to warp out too. loss? cheap ship.that's much less investment than training a bs to run level 4s for a lot more proportional reward. yes, l4s are safe too, but there's little reason to buff either l4s or ninja salvaging. salvaging high sec belt rats would of course probably be the lowest paying profession in eve, which is why i used to probe down mission runners back when i was in high sec. the advantage of being able to probe down wrecks in high sec is to clean up the system of abandoned wrecks.that's because it's one of the lowest sp requirement professions as well. but you are making no sense with this: if all you want to do is clear abandoned wrecks, why should the cost matter?"
"well i don't want to be making 1 mil isk an hour cleaning up belt wrecks. as for clearing up the system, the amount of belt wrecks is nothing compared to the amount of wrecks left behind in deadspace."
"i believe that everything in space should be probable, even the unprobable t3's, however i also feel that it should be extraordinarily hard to do so if the ship is set up right.why not introduce a new type of probe that take very high skills and special implants to use, and only usefull after you get your 99.9% (or whatever it is) hit on the ship/wreck with normal probes, maybe even having to use 15-20 of them and have a longer cycle time but shorter lifespan, hell maybe even forcing to have the probes within 250km of the target so they show up on your overview.the point is that everything would be probable but it wouldn't be reasonable to actually catch that t3 unless the pilot is a complete failure (maybe i assume to much there), and in that case he would deserve to lose his ship.everyone would be happy, pirates like me that would like the ability to probe out everything regardless how futile the effort may be, and carebears that would still be relitively safe in low and null missioning away."
"i."
"yippie kiya motherbotter."
"ask player to enter check code every 10 missions. then the cost of macros will increas significantly."
"post this link ingame!"
"1.0"
"while i support this as a whole, it's not going to happen. bots exist people coders with a brain control the mouse not the game. randomizing menus is just going to cause people grief, and is on a level or paranoia as the tsa in the united states. you want random borderline sexual abuse pat downs next?bots exist and will always exist unless ccp literally controls your computer. then whose playing the game?if you see a bot, report it. ccp can dance like a marionette but it is not going to change the result. the effort they have spent in curbing bots already is one of the most developed anti-bot system i have seen. i cannot in good conscience ask them to waste more time on this unless someone develops a way to hack the servers themselves."
"sorry... but we can ask ccp to \"waste\" more time on this...and you know why???becouse we pay rl money to play this game... and before we created account we had to agree to eula... and eula is contract between two sides... and all we ask is that other side carry out what they wrote in that contract... nothing more and nothing less...so if they say that botting will be sanctioned... well then sanction it...and if they dont do anything to conduct eula then we dont need to obey it... and that will lead to death of eve like many other games died becouse of bots..."
"1. create an anti-botting coalition.2. make ccp reveal names of bots.3. declare war on bot user alliances and annihilate them."
"like it"
"nice if it could be done"
"while i think this idea definitely has its merits, i think the internal game play would suffer a large casualty. freighters suddenly moving at base speeds (when you think about it they move as slow because they would assume to be full) would be automatically known to be full up. whats the first thing that is going to happen? every freighter moving at its base speed would suddenly be lit up like christmas trees in a bonfire in june.ships in dire circumstances would just jettison cargo and/or ammo to get a boost in speed to escape. <-- that is what sways me to hit the check box for support, i still think this idea would need a massive check for balancing. however all in all, i think that the current speeds would be the speed of a fully loaded ship. when you add in the cargo rigs and cargo expanders, the speed adjustments would \"already\" be accounted for. if ship is light or empty it means you move at a faster rate then would be the \"current\"."
"considering that a typical bs weight around 100 mil kg, and weight of a full cargohold of ammo, it will hardly make a dent."
"yeah but a ton of feathers is the same as a ton of bricks is it not? but a volume of feathers will not equal that of bricks.if you get a chance, watch one of those documentaries about ships laden with cargo. maybe even something about battleships. those shells on such small weapons when compared to eve ships, weigh 800kg(1,800lbs) as per the bismarks 15\" main turrets. when you compare it to the real life equation of how much it costs per pound(think it was in the 10's of thousands), now imagine it being 20,0000 rounds of 1400mm artillery ammo. the ammunition above is only 38cm, thats about 3.7 times bigger bore, and the weight would be massive.an 800mm armor piercing round, developed by germany, weighs 7,100 kg (15652.82 lbs. thats fifteen thousand.)now, to break down your idea that ammo means little in weight...a tempest with no bonus cargo modules, can carry 24,000 rounds of large projectile ammunition. if we were to assume that the ammo was to be used in 800mm cannons (since eve doesn't differentiate by bore size), we can assume the ammo weighs in at roughly 7,100 kg. the tempest itself weighs 103,300,000 kg. now, 24,000 rounds of ammo weighs in at the assumed weight of 170,400,000 kg. that means that the ammunition alone weighs in at 164.96% the mass of the ship itself.now, take all that into account. you still think ammo has nothing to do with a ships mass?"
"according to eve, that large projectile ammo weights 1kg each, and used in both 400mm dual ac and 1400mm arty. yeah, everything in eve has to be realistic, 'cause, you know, this is no game."
"i only see 0.025m3 listed under the eve info tab. how do you see 1kg each?"
"thanks for the link, though i think after having read some of the excerpts in the art of eve book these numbers were an arbitrarily assigned number without a purpose. i had not realized that the original ship models have specific missile firing points and drones exiting and entering the bays as so many ask for, but they state how it was such a load on the graphics cards and engine that it cause unbearable lag.in it's current form i do not see any module/ammo/rig/cargo that has any relative kg rating (though im not going to check every item, eve simply has too many).in its current incarnation yes you are correct in that ammo has no effect in the scheme of things. however if a system was indeed put in place, i would happily submit weights for every single item in the game that i can for review to adjust to the appropriate weights, or in the case of the many things we don't have, guess."
"no-skilled campers may need help, but i don't consider that a good thing. slowing the game down making more time sink i don't consider that a good thing, either. throwing a couple hundred thousand more calculations at an already stressed server is most definately not a good thing. you want it to have to re-calculate the weight of every ship in large fight the server can barely support, every time they fire a weapon?"
"no way. not need more hidden amarrian boost.their ammo not need mass, but every other need full loaded cargobay."
"yes that was the fun of it"
"if that is the case i would support if a wh can also spawn some ice from time to time.otherwise i think the logistics of planning to get fuel in and goodies out would change too much.right now players do not have to be 'on' every day hoping for a hs / ls - to get to known space.real life issues doesnt permit everyone to log on every day."
"if parents haven't figured out how to deal with this well before the teen years they are fail as parents and deserve what ever they get. seriously the second thing most human beings see in their life is a boob and the first is the other part of the anatomy everyone gets all wierded out about. boobs are life. they are what makes us mammals, the fact that they are prominent on the chest is unique to humans. they create friggin food for crying out loud they are friggin miraculous. just more neo-puritanism because the religious right is ****ed off that they've lost the culture war. i'm disapointed in ccp for capitulating to such nonsense. it's a cruel harsh universe but keep your shirts on."
"a reply from ccp on this issue would be nice, but i'm not holding my breath."
"\"by popular demand: shirtless! now in the incarna store for 1 plex\""
"checker, i think you are thinking more of the victorians than the puritans. the puritans were modest and didn't show things off, however it was the victorians who were more aggressive about it.likewise the goal of this thread isn't to be about anti religious right rants... being against improper or excessive sexuality has its place. plus if you want to split hairs, there's just as many on the left (feminists) who'd hate something like this as people on the right.my thoughts on the matter are:1. technically everything that has to be covered is, so it's not full nudity. now it might be tasteless, trashy, ****ty, or sexy depending on your point of view, however no female nipples, no genitals = not nudity.2. all of the avatars i've seen are already wearing a jacket; they've just got the front open. so they are mostly clothed and it's a little bit more about cleavage than nudity. plus at least a few of the avatars i've seen had more of a tough chick look to them than a sexy one.3. in the right/wrong pose, a woman with a ddd cup and a tight shirt is just as good/bad as cleavage. so if there were more prudish interests at stake here, why not keep every female pc a b cup? that actually might keep women who don't like pcs with big busts for leaving the game... ie it's less offensive to them.4. what's the point of letting us see characters in their undies to begin with only to tell us a screen or two later: don't forget to put your shirt on? i mean ccp could have started everyone off in a bodysuit (and those things can be kinda sexy too) or something and they've had plenty of time before now to think about this. as someone who's done qa work before, this one kinda bugs me the most. to me it means decisions are either based on whimsy or ccp doesn't have their act together in some fashion or another. what's going on up there? if this was a problem, why did it make it all the way to release? 4a. i know the icons are small, but why are there half naked strippers/prostitutes in the game as things you can move around? i mean seriously. if you want to go a prudish route that's fine, but at least get rid of the half naked hookers in the process. why should i as a player have to face this sudden mea culpa that doesn't fit with other things i've seen?it just seems really weird to me. some people might not like a little cleavage, but it's hardly the worst game out there in terms of clothing and there are other things in eve i'd consider worse. plus i can't make any sort of rhyme or reason out of it and i'm left scratching my head."
"it such a minor thing, but it hints about ccp's vision for a younger player base.even in a kiddy game like wow you can walk around in your underwear. but you can't in eve?"
"yes if someone wants to run around in there undies let them,, gee they cover more than the 50's bathing suit.i'm waiting for the thongs soon, hmm even the man thong, women love that"
"since gas clouds are kinda restricted/banned in high sec, why not make a pirate vessel which is used for gas cloud harvesting? everybody knows gas clouds are used to either make drugs or 'forbidden' technologies (given the requirements for production), so it would make perfect sense, and give a new market for pirate vessels.normally, i'm against a better ship for such a limited industry, but if it could only be built outside of empire, it would make perfect sense. i envision it as being similar to a gila in terms of attributes (with a 100 m3 drone bay and 50 m3 bandwidth), but with the following bonuses:special ability: 75% reduction to gas cloud harvester cpu.gallente cruiser skill bonus: 5% to cargo capacity and agility per levelmining barge skill bonus: 5% to shield resistances per level"
"+1also with these new vessels maybe add more uses for gas to keep prices/demand up?"
"i don't know.. both the ferox and the myrmi, make great gas-cloud harvesters ;)i agree of course.. how could i not? a dedicated gas-harvesting ship would be a real benefit; receiving benefits related to it's intended purpose. flying a bc is alright, and it works well enough; but, that's not what it's designed for.a good gas-cloud harvesting ship would require decent cargo space; and a minimum 5% bonus per level, to either cycle time, or amount. cycle time might be preferrable; and that's just a bare minimum. it would also have to be fast, with a decent align time; and be capable of sustaining a reasonable tank. alternatively, it could be capable of warp disruption immunity; or other factors, which would allow it to function in null effectively.a t3 industrial, would be nice for that matter; being able to be configured for various exploration tasks. gas-cloud harvesting, hacking, archaeology, and mining among them; with changes elsewhere, granting interdicion immunity, higher agility, and other things. aside from t3 frigates, and possibly destroyers, and possibly battlecruisers, and/or battleships; the t3 industrial ship, would be among the top things, i'd like to see introduced in eve. wishful thinking perhap's./supported"
"sure, why not. it's the only thing i currently use my brutix for to be honest. be nice to have a specific ship."
"qaft. when i was noobish and first became able to fly a covops, i made a point to travel to low/null to view some of these very things. the eve gate was encouraging, but the rest of the \"points of interest\" on the map simply were not there. after trying 3 of them, i just gave up."
"ccp just added a ton of sites to the game, about one per system (on average). the reason there aren't more is due to the amount of time it takes to code a site (laying out objects, spawn points, etc).i do agree that some things should be included, but no major revamp should be taken care of. there's enough for ccp to worry about already, and a massive backlog of issues to take care of.while i do support it somewhat, i'm gonna have to defer to fixing the problems of eve rather than adding in eye candy. not supported."
"yes more to the game,,,yes i know it takes time ccp but in the long run i think it is a good ideal..."
"new features always welcome."
"treaties please, since they are sort of important for making a lot of the changes in dominion not be meaningless.i don't even care about new stuff after playing eve this long, i just want the old stuff to deliver on its potential. there's a ton of stuff in eve that's just mediocre to downright bad that could be great if anyone actually spent time on it."
"i think this - with respect to fw - has been passed by csm. but it still hasn't been fixed. so i support it. clearly its bad to have a world wide mmo where the good content only spawns during a certain time zone."
"the active repair bonus is only useful in very small pvp situations and doing solo pve work. my proposal is that it also includes repair received.so instead an astarte's bonuses would read like this:battlecruiser skill bonus: 5% bonus to medium hybrid turret damage and 7.5% bonus to armor repairer and remote armor received effectiveness per levelcommand ships skill bonus: 5% bonus to medium hybrid turret damage and 10% bonus to medium hybrid turret falloff per levelrole bonus: 99% reduction in warfare link module cpu needwhat this does is allows for certain ships to be an option due to medium to large size fleets doing ehp and remote repairs."
"+1. its worth remembering that even with this boost, resist bonuses would still be more powerful because they also provide ehp.ed: perhaps the phrasing could be:# battlecruiser skill bonus: 5% bonus to medium hybrid turret damage and 7.5% bonus to all arm"
"active armor tanking is a horrible horrible bonus and definitely needs looking at.supported.(inb4 troll accusation)"
"i think the idea definitely warrants discussion but if you look at the description and effects of a command ship, this bonus is applied fleet wide with a specific command module. i find it rare that a guardian under the command of an armor linked damnation could keep a ship alive, unless your already dead due to 10+ hostiles locking you as primary."
"i'd rather have it changed to a 5% resist bonus but thats fine too"
"in today's eve, active tanking is plain horrible. and only the rr is powerful - if you have the people.1600mm plates + 3x trimarks or lse ii + 3x field extenders completely dominate.it's passive/buffer tanking that should be looked at. it shouldn't be so strong."
"i support the proposal.however, the idea shall not be limited to armour tanks only but to include shield tanks, too. there are ships that receive a bonus to shield boost amount and these shall get the same attention as the active armour tankers.the proposal itself will not change much with regard to blob fights, which is the cause for most of the currently perceived imbalance of ships, and that is something i would like to see being fixed before patching up ship after ship and module after module.still, the proposal does not change the distinctive characteristics of the races, but adjusts the active tank bonuses to be of the same value in fleets as the resistance bonuses. this a good thing."
"i have a better idea, increase armor rep bonuses from 7.5% to 10% and 10% to 12%."
"yea good ideal, that way if you make a deal someone can give you coords, now if we could just fly the ship better..."
"supported. 2nd proposal is best, but either would be incredibly useful!"
"i don't see anything wrong with this idea.signed. -z"
"the alternate solution is the only one that makes sense, but i would modify it slightly and say: allow any item to be dragged to compare window from anywhere, including but not limited to market, contracts, assets, hangar etc.personally not a fan of more clutter in the context menu. the compare feature does not see nowhere near enough use to warrant such a placement."
"due to feedback on my mains thread and the fact she has a forum ban , i have decided to revamp the idea to include said feedback in a new thread because i can't edit the old one.cynosural field generator changesthe self destruct timer on a ship is cancelled if the ship opens a cyno.any ship that jumps to the cyno automatically receives any aggression timers the cyno ship already has and receives during the jump. once in system any further aggression the cyno ship receives no longer applies to the ship that jumped to the cyno.if a ship jumps to the cyno and the cyno ship is destroyed before it can load the system is placed in a random non-cyno jammed system within its jump range. high sec systems are also excluded.some examples:i want to farm level five missions with my nyx and need to jump a few systems over to get to it. currently what is most commonly done to insure a 100% risky free jump is to have a throw away cyno frigate to initiate self destruct. then a few seconds before it explodes, open the cyno and jump to it. because the cyno ship is dead before my nyx can load system, i appear at a totally random safe spot in system ready to cloak and no one ever had any hope to catch me.with the new system this of course would not be possible to get to the system without showing up next to the cyno i jumped to. thus adding some risk back into the mechanic of jumping.another example would be a fleet wants to do some hot dropping or capital blobbing. currently any ship will do for the cyno but the smaller and cheaper the cyno ship is the better. less risk in the isk for the cyno ship. also the smaller the ship the longer it takes to lock it and kill it to try and keep the entire blob from dropping on you.with the proposed changes if the fleet wanting to spew their blob all over another fleet jumps to the cyno and the cyno ship dies, any ship that did not load system before it died, is now in some random system, with an aggression timer and low on capacitor, provided it is a capital ship. if it is a ship that does not have a jump drive it will be in a random system that was within the titans jump range.so the fleet that was hot dropped was able to prevent a portion, depending how fast it was able to destroy the cyno ship from making it to the fight. sub capital ships can of course try and burn to the system to join the fight but it will be some time before the capital ships have enough capacitor to be ready to jump again. capital ship in a system with no station to dock in, no pos to hug, no cloak and fifteen minute aggression timer? have fun. a smarter attacking fleet could split up their ships to jump to different cyno, use a larger ship that can take more punishment and possibly cyno the fleet not directly into harms way.as always, comments/rage/support?"
"what problem are you trying to solve, other than the minor issue of cynos broadcasting your presence in system to all and sundry?"
"this dude is reaising a seious issiue, wth people.fullest support."
"**** yeah!"
"have the sansha influence meter affect moon goo output.sansha influence is 100% then moon goo output is 0%. sansha influence is 70% then moon goo output is 30%. you get the idea.remember, it is not forced pve at all. you can simply wait till the sansha move or hire some other people to clear it for you."
"good way to get more alliance involvment in lowsec. terrible idea so far given that incursions are:a)under ccp controlb)ccp has already made some serious boo-boos recently regarding favoritism to certain factions (tcu's being removed...magically un-anchored warp disruptor bubbles etc.)can you imagine the threadnought would spring into being if an alliance was gearing up to assault another region and all of a sudden sansha incursions appeared and stuffed up their income and logistics? how about if it happened repeatedly?until ccp can demonstrate it is truly impartial they ought to keep mechanics like this very separate from the 0.0 playerbase."
"omg! the tsunami like tears from coad really poring over to assembly hall?you guys are so quick to cherry pick what best suits your argument all the time. \"bawww!!!! people we don't like were able to evade us because they understand how the game mechanics are currently working more than we do!!!\" that bubble bug has been around for a good while now. i experienced it first hand myself up in spacemonkey alliance space. i had a tower with bubbles anchored on it to catch little monkey bombers and for some reason there was one bubble that would be offline after every downtime. petitioned it and a week or so me and a dev investigated it and tried many things. still we could never figure it out before monkeys sos'd the entire nc and i had 800+ nc captials evaporate the tower. shame really.what is really gonna burn your bottom is if nc didn't ultra blob everything the tower would have lasted a lot longer and it most likely the bug could have been fixed. now imagine if your bubbles didn't bug after down time. awwwwww.... things that could have been.so you guys need to cut that tinfoil hat **** out and grow the **** up already. your so quick to forget about that super cap fleet and assorted other capitals that magically re-spawned in the waiting hands of the nc a while back. it shouldn't of happened but it did. just like the bubbles around the it capital fleet should have been online after down time but they were not. get the **** over it!so back to my proposal. if you don't like it that is fine, but don't for one second list the reason being because ccp would use it to batphone people out of trouble. seriously, you guys are truly pathetic."
"+1 to the htfu sentiments.seeing some expanded penalties with incursions could be nice, although knowing where to draw the line is important. asteroid belts might not have as high quality/quantity ore as well? as far as moon goo, perhaps just cutting it t"
"^this"
"i think expanded is correct but not enough. this is a full on invasion and some people just go about their days mining. when you invade a country, your stopping all supply. you don't let the farmers and workers to just walk past the front lines and go about their business. i think in order to make these incursions a serious deal, we need to have the belts scouted by sansha. maybe even have sansha mining ships with guards present. this is an invasion, again, and i would imagine sansha kuvakei would be taking advantage of all the benefits of war. whether there is ships actually mining or not, their should at least be ships stopping his enemies from gathering resources. when you think about it, what do we always do in war? bomb the factories, processing plants, etc., that make and assemble war resources and weapons. we did it to germany, japan, italy, they did it to the french, polish, hungarians, etc. i think the turnout for incursions could be so much more massive and have a more serious undertone of \"your not going to ruin my life\" (in character not emo addiction) if the underlying market got a massive interruption of supplies and resources."
"yes, all infrastructure and upgrades must be destroyed if incursion is not beat back."
"of course you're provably wrong as the so-called 'batphone' has been a big issue in the past and it's strange how the bubbles only around their supercap towers disappeared, no?i do feel this is an issue and that's why i am not supporting your proposal until there is absolutely no question about the impartiality/random nature of what space gets affected by the incursions - it's just too open to abuse of the kind that we've seen many times already, that's all."
"seriously, take off the tinfoil hat for once. now gtfo of my thread if your just gonna mope around."
"the issues that you bring up are not game mechanic related and while i understand your reservations, its founded under the basis that ccp is just simply corrupt.whether or not that is the case, regardless of the many times people say it happens, that is neither here nor there. how favorable did it seem when it was announced that the drone regions were to be the only place where you can get what i would equate as t3 drones? at the time i was a resident of the parts, and we quickly lost it due to a massive invasion. we were originally inhabitants because no one wanted the space, no bounties etc, however we were not prepared for the onslaught that ensued and we lost the space. if you have a problem with people abusing the system as obviously intoned in your message, your gaming life will always be an angry one, as will your real life.the idea has its merits and its downfalls, but if my moon stops producing, its incentive for me to do something other then station spin when i am bored. it also has that realistic element that eve attempts to apply to many situations that all other games seem to gloss over. if your counterpoint is to argue its only a game, well you just debated yourself out of the discussion. the point of eve besides being fun, is to also offer you a sandbox, a spice of gaming life. what spice is there to life as a moon miner if your primary concern is obtain charters, defense, and refueling? there is only 3 reasons why, and easily avoidable at that, that a moon would stop producing on you. that same moon can net players billions. as a with my industrial toon who can manufacture, invent, research, process, and do anything that is not combat in game, i can tell you i still want a hard time when it comes to making isk because its a game. whats the fun if i log in and have isk just thrown at me with nothing but monotonous change of the clock to keep me company?"
"sounds like a good idea. if they can replace belt rats, affect mission income and cyno jam systems, surely they would knock out moon operations as well.just report him for trolling and making off topic posts, with any luck he is a repeat offender and gets a \"break\" from posting"
"i've made many other posts in this forum, and my intention isn't trolling. unless it's my alliance affiliation you're paying attention to other than what i'm saying.i do have to admit, i'm somewhat taken aback by your inability to decouple the 'politics' from provable fact.... but what else is new?"
"makes sense."
"interesting idea.given that it would be very easy for established alliances to dispatch 20 guys clearing them out in no time, i dont see a reason why not."
"100% agree.pos' fuel costs should go up too.that will make everyone work together even if they are enemy's."
"i read this as 'incursion code from 2010 now affects the pos code from 2003'. so, no, not supported"
"there's already enough negative effects from incursions. the empire ones are being cleared long before their timer runs down, so no more incentive's needed atm. the null sec ppl who're ignoring the incursion should be free to do so without additional penalty."
"i like this idea, nerfing incoming moon goo would be a good idea to incursions.+5 for making test people whine in this thread."
"supported!!!"
"not supported.making no sence. it their own lose just ignore the incursion"
"not supported.any proposal regarding incursion at this early time is too soon to be of any value."
"sanshas divert moon goo into building themselves some more supercarriers!"
"problem:overviews, while pruned to each users liking, can be lag induced chaos in even the best situations, leading to unintended concord interventions, friendly-fire, and simple lag loss. all of which inadvertently get blamed upon ccp in an unfair manner. after nearly shooting a concord protected ship(lag delayed the overview adjustments and i started locking an empire npc during combat), the following idea spawned in the back of my mind.solution:have an overview drag system akin to the current chat system. details:multiple overview windows can be created by simply dragging the tabs about your screen.pilots would be able to dedicate an overview to hostile, or friendly, stargate or stations, etc., without concern of a lag induced miss-click that leads to so many lost ships.reduce the number of petitons, complaints, and foul language thrown at ccp for something that is not at fault.expand the functionality of the ui to support the new approach to multi-display gaming in eve.since the server sends the same information to the client, the client would be left up to parse the information for the separate overview tabs, at which point it is reliant on the machine to display the information correctly.i know some people would say, well just remove certain things from your overview! in actuality very few people have a cut and dry overview of only hostiles. i tried that, but quickly found myself adding things such as corpses, containers, and debris that would decloak a ship. shortly after i am looking at a screen that is entirely filled with white icons and your left waiting for the screen to finish sorting targets before you dare clicking them otherwise your wasting both valuable lock time and either dying or letting targets get away."
"i have gotten the impression that at the moment, the server sends out only that data the visible overview needs, if this is the case - multiple overviews would add significantly to lag.if, however, it only adds clientside lag - this would be great.all they would need to do is allow you to detatch some of the overview tabs already available."
"i have overviews specifically designed for every situation i could possibly forsee (bc+, logistics, tacklers, de-cloakables, celestials...). having the functionality to see multiple overviews without clicking back and forth and/or re-loading them would be really nice.all the information presented by your overview is handled via the location node on the server. it has to send your client everything anyway so the physics/happy dancing laz0rs of death look right when rendered by each individual client. your overview just pars down what's being presented via the client, ex: the presence of celestials on your overview. celestials are still present in the system, just not being displayed via your overview and/or brackets. you can still interact with them as your client knows they're present."
"we already have tabs in the overviews use those and switch between them."
"not really a comparable solution, since you would have to contantly click betwen the different tabs and you have very limited number of them, so you end up putting more stuff in them than you really want to. the tabs are better than not having any options to alter beetween, but a whole secondary overview would be a much better option to have and a clear improvement to the current situation. you could always just use the one and the tabs, if you don't feel the need to use secondary overviews.as an example i would love to have a primary targeting overview totally separate from an utility overview. the primary overview would determine what you see in the main view in space, but you could target things from any secondary overviews too."
"this was actually suggested as part of the big wins, fan favorites & low hanging fruit ui proposal last fall: crowdsource and implement a complete redesign of overview filtering and presentation. oh, and multiple overview windows would be nice -- yes, we know it might reduce client fps; let us decide about that tradeoff.it was a good idea then, and it is a good idea now."
"ice mining is an incredible boring part of eve. it's also necessary for the operation of a pos. it is in desperate need of an overhaul.my suggestion is the following:- introduce a new layer of game play to pi through tech 2 buildings.- tech 2 buildings produce the power requirements for an orbiting pos. perhaps the player is required to carefully manage reaction rates that produce the materials, and the alignment of the gravity sling that transports the materials directly to the pos. perhaps they need to make sure that the periods of highest output of power match when the pos is on the same side of the planet. this would create lots of opportunities for interesting decisions based on the resources of a planet, it's day length, and the power requirements of the pos.- since the fuel requirements of pos vary, as does the composition of planets: certain planets would favour being paired with certain types of pos.benefits.- removes a boring macro friendly part of the game (ice mining)- makes a pos dependent on the planet it orbits. making the dust514 link more meaningful. and gives players another means to disrupt an enemy in addition to the traditional shoot-it-until-it-pops. they could jam the transmission of power. or hire mercenaries to take out the facilities.- encourages corporations to invest in their space, to spend time developing their area. and encourages them to maintain smaller areas of space, rather than spreading out over a loosely defended empire."
"yes, ice mining is mind-numbingly boring. however, it's something that needs modified, not replaced.anyways, your idea has a few faults. for one, poses operate around moons, not planets. second, wormhole ops would be completely self-sufficient, destroying the need to ever leave.there are many more, but for now, not supported."
"it is a pain, we need a better way of doing it..."
"i'm with liang and i would be against this change. as the op knows, i think it goes in the opposite direction. plexing should have nothing to do with wasting ammo on red x's. but i won't belabor the issue. i am supporting this discussion, because the plexing mechanics need some work. and its a bad idea to continue with plexing being \"sort of\" pve and \"sort of\" pvp and a whole lot of boring. this proposal pushes it more in the pve catagory. i am against that but i think the players should discuss it and state their views."
"oh but people do defend when applicable. problem is that the system as it is allows a t1 frigate to cap all plexes without firing a single shot (yes, even minor are being speed tanked!). those ships are made for that single purpose and head for the hills at the first sight of an enemy so a lot of people just don't bother entering anymore other than to chase it out.the \"fix\" itself should not require a whole lot of work as it is essentially just drawing on existing mission/exploration content.all too well problem is that i and others have brought it up intermittently for two years and counting. ccp do not currently, as far as i am aware, have any plans to do work on fw for at least another year maybe more.there are so many flaws with the fw implementation that it will take a lot of manpower to bring it up to speed so i just don't see it happening anytime soon.using npc destruction as a stop-gap/band-aid would force plexers to use appropriate ships thus removing most of the alt-gaming in that area at least.those committed to plexing will do so regardless which means that a lot more actual ships will be inside rather than roadrunner frigs.addendum: edited original post with missing request."
"with the new patch, the primae has a hold of 1,600, but command centers are 1000. can we get 2,000 storage?"
"its hold was originally sized to be able to hold at least 1 of any kind of command center. after the changes, it still does so."
"yea how about just cutting us off from ccp that way they don't know what we want, hmm lets just play sto"
"*henry haphorn impersonates dr. evil as he drives up to wartech2 in his electric-powered boss seat.how about no!?? you crazy troll alt."
"my forum bot just pinged me, telling me of this awesome bot thread!ccp have a schedule that is laid out 6-18 months at a time. if you look at all previous issues that have been raised then you'd see that they do get around to them when time permits .. since this fad \"hate the bot\" is brand new ...the only times that ccp cancels ongoing work to rectify something is when the game or in-game mechanisms are under imminent threat. botting has been around since forever so even if it is increasing it is apparently not yet at a level where ccp feel it necessary to postpone their prancing barbie project.if you got a hard-on because of the isk involved then i'd suggest you look to the moons and sanctums instead as the income from those far outstrip anything garnered from the belts."
"all they have to do is read the forum and it seems that they already do.i see threads since 2 + years about blasters and rails, about blaster and rails platforms, about drones.just saying."
"please lock/remove this thread."
"yes making the 1000th thread about the same topic discussed for the 1000th time is going to change something.seems to me you people lack the necessary intelligence/discernment to figure out what ccp is trying to say."
"i fully support removing this thread of the assembly hall from the forums."
"a little harsh, but i'll ask since you didn't say and seem to believe you know what ccp is trying to say. what do you believe ccp is trying to say?-windjammer"
"i really can't fathom why this isn't allowed. you have to pick up the stuff eventually anyway. i can do virtually everything else from far away so why is this the one thing i have to be in system for?"
"i suspect its because it gives you another huge massive storage facility.and if you were doing pi in a wh then that would be even a bigger advantage."
"making it a manual thing also limits the amount of automation that can be done. would be rather silly if you could do everything from one central location and then spend 10 minutes running errands once in a blue moon."
"that's exactly how it already works, you just have to pause and launch your crap first right before picking it up for some strange unknown reason instead of being able to do so beforehand.but actually i suspect it's to insure you're on the same location node that the resources are being passed to (from the pi node), probally due to some immense code-fail of ccp's... becasue you really shouldn't need to be. who knows what other random reason it might be."
"yea,, even wow has it...plus in the station you can buy new cloths,(different from the start up ones)"
"if people don't start some real rabble, and soon - this is going to cost you $/<U+FFFD>/ each time you do it.microtransactions are bad."
"no it won't. the accessories might, but retaking your photo or changing your hair style or color won't. ccp has already said they're going to allow you to retake your photos at will in a coming patch/expansion. they have to make the photo taking free so you'll be tempted to buy the accessories."
"i'd like to believe this is true, but i haven't seen any statement that it will be free - let me know if you have.keep in mind that you used to have to pay a microtransaction to modify your portrait in the old system. i don't think it's a leap to say it's a possibility you will have to in the new system.i keep getting a bad feeling incarna's going to involve way too much of my wallet."
"let's get some ideas down for the colorblind folks. i'm not quite sure what would need to be altered for a colorblind person."
"honestly the more i think on it, the more i realize i don't have any color issues with this game. maybe in the pi scanning... but who looks for anything besides the hotspots anyway?"
"i would be happy if they just put a line through the damned zero and and at the bottom of the lower-case 'l', but apparently even those 10-minute changes which eliminate an insane amount of frustration are too much to ask."
"supporting all ui improvements since 2007"
"supported"
"if you have more well thought-out ideas, do share them. i'd like to consolidate all of our requests into one post."
"they already do that now. the difference is those border incursions don't spread home."
"i would support for this reason alone."
"change it so moon goo output reflects that of the sansha influence of the constellation. sansha have 100% influence then 0% moon goo output. sansha have 70% influence then moon goo output is 30%.change it to that and you have my support."
"if you want to use incursion to kill macros, you made it wrong.not support"
"first time i seen them i was starting an alt, doing explor tut, and i went into a jump. next think i knew was there they were and i could not even turn my ship around. well short story i got pop, then i laugh my ass off only in eve this could happen.well what do i think, i love it and we should see more of them and i don't mean in low sec. i mean look out carebears, well at least it will keep them on though toes...yes eve needs them, it keeps the spice in the game...."
"op has a valid argument, pirates always think they can force \"pvp\"(called ganking, ya know) down \"carebares\" throats, let's try another way round for once. and i would absolutely fall off my chair laughing if they would take away sovereignty or system upgradesor i can imagine sansha mothership chasing people around the system.and if lowsec becomes one giant incursion, to hell with, that's more useful than what it is now!"
"gosh, dude!i hope ccp can hear you and i hope they will do that"
"excellent, i hope this happens. it's about time something has some real consequences other than the (if your stupid your ship go's pop) lol"
"of course i support , otherwise it is justm pointless feature that was wasted hours of delelopers time."
"kinda supported. if undefeated the incursion should *move* to an adjacent constellation, but the original would despawn."
"yeah i can see it now... incursions magically appear everywhere except delve."
"supported."
"not supported.when you try to punish players, they will not get to low sec or 00 but just quit the game. maybe you dare to bet if they will but the ccp will not to."
"good. those sov-null farmers should quit. plenty of people more than willing to go there and take their places if not for the mom blobs."
"yes if fully agree i have to open them up to see if they are copies, such a pain..."
"good idea, supported.- z"
"supported. this is actually one of the reasons i never bothered with invention and t2 production back when i was learning eve."
"1.0"
"hmm in the station i would like to have a store or bar, that would be nice.or set up some kind of biz in them. or even be able to set up a small station or somewhat near other station as a trading spot."
"wow, i didn't think anyone would bring up this ancient topic. but oh well. since i am open to criticism, i guess i can make a few changes to my original idea.instead of producing other people's ships and being a broker agent, let's just keep it limited to just being able to see yourself build a ship that you will own and fly using a bpo/bpc that you bought along with materials that you acquired? we can still keep the npc agents if pilots are too lazy to do the work themselves.how about it? that way, the isk sink is still there and there is more interaction rather than some boring old poker game in stations (i suck at texas hold'em anyways)."
"i would suggest creating a new topic in relation to visibly seeing your ships being manufactured. as far as modules the time durations would not warrant a separate rendering of the output. as far as the other stuff, main reason you would not want to be a broker is when would you sleep? i would imagine griefers getting orders would dock in a station they are sieging, sign on as a broker, then do nothing or process nothing.the idea is sound, the actual reality that is gamers is the fault, so your suggestion isn't a bad one, just one that will not work as far as implementation unless you had personal vendors like ultima online or final fantasy etc. that just brings up new questions about why are all the vendors dressed like hookers or completely stark naked."
"true. well, in a effort to keep this topic from popping back up again, i ask the moderators to please lock this thread. it is after all, an old thread."
"wish we could summit our own logos for the corp like the alliance has, yea i know there should be a charge but at least it would be more personal."
"lol hell why not"
"sound kool but too much on the engine, we need other stuffi say na"
"i'd rather have option to hide portraits unless i check their details. doesn't really make much sense to see moving heads everywhere."
"yea i'm for it.. now are they going to be naked?"
"if you want the corpses more realistic replace the current models with a pulpy decompressed mass of flesh that has been frozen onto the skeleton. either that or a small urn as most weapons used in eve wouldn't leave much by way or organic remains."
"that or have a bank system where you can get something out of it, well if you put lots of isk in it.i mean they always take money from us, why can't we make it back in savings?"
"yea i love icandyand if you don't like it, have it where you can turn it off..."
"yes i think this would be more fun if fix right...give some more ideal players"
"still i don't like it,,,you really can not key bind, like set two commands together, like some other games i've seen.say launch your drones and engage with on key stroke (i don't even see where you can launch your drones yet maybe i'm missing it or it's just not there)"
"why am i think of simms...but it should have more rp to it, even in fable you can have sex but it comes as a price to it..."
"to start this off do they keep making quafe?ok now to the subject:we should consume the items like say quafe, and when you do it maybe adds one point to perception for about 5 min. that way there will be more trade in it. well different holoreels will show a small movie say (i don't know yet how but i guess it can be done) and say the coffee does something to you, like make you faster at shooting for a small amount of time. what i'm saying is i would like to see the trade in these item move more. they did it to booster why can the other items do something?i would like to hear your view on this?"
"sounds new and interesting.i like this idea.i'm wondering how do you consume exotic dancers, prostitute, etc. lol and the effect??"
"well the dancers and so, you can drop them off at a pi and the work gets better, think the workers are happy. after a while they get used,,, go figure..."
"apologies if this has already been suggested.simple idea, no wall of text.i suggest implementing a feature to show the amount of items in a container into the name of the container.e.g: small audit container (23)the figure in brackets represents items in the container. that way at a glance you know if a container has items in or not."
"oh, and i support the idea :p"
"yea that might be nice:::but what about the spam containers, you know what i mean they are all over the place. taken up space..."
"okay thx for clearing up my mistake, but i think still it should be changed simply due to the very clear lack of pos's in those systems, since they are easily targeted by capitals, but yield too little isk since they can't moon mine or do reactions."
"yes...and it would be nice if it can export to more stuff, nothing else to a site so you can look at it on the inbrower with eve."
"any work in this area would be appreciated, it's really dated and needs some tlc."
"having signatures on our mail in the game would be nice, i do get tire of copy and paste all the time."
"does make sense to me"
"i petitioned to get rid of this channel spam and got the generic reply,\"unfortunately no at this time it is not possible to fully disable that chat window when going through incursion systems.\" the sooner we can get rid of it the better."
"well if you have to pee i guess you would want to leave your pod, but i don't see why you want to in space!lol is what i think"
"i do agree the poses needs lots of work..."
"that would be nice,,, that way i can keep up on some more stuff..."
"this proposal begins with a simple premise: local either needs to be removed completely or put into delayed mode for low sec and null sec. however, since this fundamentally changes the game mechanics, something is needed to be put into place to fill in the overwhelming gap that simply removing local would create.here is what i propose: give every ship a d-scanner that actively scans a given range around the ship. the d-scanner will still keep the previous functions, and you will be able to use it as before, but when you close that window, the d-scanner actively scans around the ship and alerts you to any presence (including corp mates and such). this alert will include the ship type and the pilot.in addition to this, the d-scanner will have filters, but not in the traditional sense. what will happen is that, when in fleet, the system must be synchronized with other fleet members before leaving in order to turn alerts off. this will be a 10-second process in space, or could simply be done in-station automatically after the fleet is formed. this could be useful in certain cases, since that is not all for the d-scanner.when you join a corp or alliance, the d-scanner can also be synchronized with that alliance or corp, and allow you to either turn off alerts for that corp, or keep it on (in case you are up to nefarious deeds). any person/corp registered blues can also be applied to this. if a red or neutral player enters within range of another's d-scanner, then that person's d-scanner will give automatic alert to that person, and whoever else is in fleet. it will include information on fleet size and ship types. it will be possible to alert entire corps or alliances, based on size of fleet, and editable if one wishes. such filters or options will only be available to directors, ceos, or fcs, and the fc will have these options per each fleet that they form, i.e. each time they form a fleet, they will be presented with the option to turn these off or on.i could go on, but i think the rest of my idea is rather un-agreeable with others, so i'll leave it to this for now.*edit* and of course, the entire reason i posted this, and forgot to mention, is that cloaked ships and covert cyno fields will not be detectable by this scanner."
"yes please. most people chose their avatar's race/bloodline when thier pic didn't matter much, and race/bloodline did nothing but change the system you started in."
"ridiculous. removal of killmails is going to somehow encourage people to play worse? ultimately in this game or any other victory is defined as killing the other guy's stuff. the best way to do that is to \"blob\" with other like-minded individuals, and camp gates, use over-powered modules like ecm, hotdrop, etc. whether you have access to the record of your success or failure is irrelevant, though it would make the game feel more pointless to remove it. (if you haven't noticed, blowing stuff up in eve is not that fun on its own.)actually this topic seems like a troll upon reflection."
"i agree. i miss my long hair."
"since most of us are growing really concerned with the rise of macro bots in eve online and their negative impact on the in-game economy, many of us have put forth a lot of ideas on how to deal with them (most of which have been talked about repeatedly). and we all know that ccp doesn't have the resources to deal with these bots in an individual level (there are so many).well, in a weak attempt to help fight the long fight against bots (which so far has officially turned into a war of attrition), let me propose my own idea.in the current setup of eve online, there is the obvious bounty office in which pilots can post isk bounties against other players anonymously and then other players can then hunt them down and kill them for the isk. what i propose is a new feature in which players can anonymously post on the macro bot bounty office about a possible bot in eve. the rewards can be anything (including ships & modules, not just isk).this list is broadcast to everyone throughout new eden just like the list in the regular bounty office. in addition, if suspected bot has been given a bounty by a large enough number of different pilots, the client should then send out a message to ccp to investigate the suspected account. if the account has been confirmed to be a macro bot user, then ccp has two choices:1. make the confirmed bot (and all related alts attached to the account and credit card) an open free-for-all target for other pilots (permanently!) so that other pilots can gank the bot without having to worry about concord retribution.or2. ban the user's account. personally, i prefer option #1 as it makes it more fun for us."
"to answer your question... theres actually alot that can be implemented to stop macro/bot usage. but doing nothing is not an option for me. an easy way to do it was when someone filled a petition reporting a player, a gm would then \"teleport\" to that reported player and engage in a convo.a warning would then be issued before convo saying \"failure to engage in a convo with a gm may result in a warning/ban\".if such player doesn't answer and continues to do things only a human should be able to, like accepting missions, change targets, warp, jet cans, etc, that gm will issue a warning/ban to that player. plain and simple.i really don't how this is so hard to do..."
"actually, if that is the only thing you have remarks about my candidacy, i think i'm in the right path. putting some \"\" on \"force\" may help... because i'm not that naive to think i can force ccp to do anything. afterall its their game.i just chose such a strong word to express the frustration of our player base about how this matter is being handle by ccp, and to reinforce that i will do anything humanly possible to \"force\" ccp to take action."
"and i know 20 more.neutral rr must die. if you whant to fihgt, have theballs to come oput and fight. 15 minutes non-docking time? and i fully support this, highsec wars need to be a serious choise. some 5 man griefer corp declares war, and when they get their ases handed to them, no big deal, warp in nuetral rr< save the ship, dorck up in 30 seconds when timer runs out and play spin-the-ship for the rest of the week.you could actually make the time a few minutes if the r is in a player corporation, then you can at least declare war on them. but you should not be allowed to rr people if you are in a noob corp.. maybe just get yourself concorded right away, or kicked from noobcorp"
"agree with you there.very, very agreed. if you stick your nose into my fight i should have the right to bite it off and spit it in your eye.something to be said for this but i must admit i like taking advantage of my opponents inability/unwillingness to study the battlefield."
"was sounding good until i realised all you wanted to do was gank people on undock.1) is a mixed bag. its easy enough to fight someone on station, but being able to deagress and dock if they spike local with a blob is useful counter to blobbing. on different side of that coin, people blob on stations because hostiles just dock up if they don't stand a chance.2) neutral repping is annoying, making people war targets for rest of war sounds hard to implement and potentially problematic if you have a war on and you get a neutral to rep in missions for example. logistics just needs to give docking timer aggression of the person being repped.3) its annoying only for gankers like you and me. sitting on station undock in a bumping battleship should not be encouraged any more than it is.tldr i want more consensual pvp not ganks."
"i can do that as much as i want, simply because i live in 0.0. i don't have the restrictions in that department.which ultimately means you need to play smarter. want to undock to pew pew you better have intell on possible hostiles in next system on gate.as it is now it's easyplay to be a stationhugger. and the risk of losing a ship is less than viable if you know what you're doing and have your spy alts or your friends spy alts out.neutral repping is practicly chosing a side in a war. and as i stated the neutral repper should get flagged as wartarget when he is repping during a fight. we have annoying pop ups for about anything, how hard is it to implement a pop up warning that the one you are about to rep has an agression timer from a pvp encounter.repping in a mission wouldn't trigger it then.and let's face it. howmany socalled neutral reppers don't know their teammate in the mission is at war. howmany people do you think actually fly around to make isk by neutral repping missionrunners.sorry to burst your bubble but i am not a ganker and till not too long ago i was a missionrunner and carebear. we were wardecced several times and the annoying thing was and still is the stationhugging docking game.it wasn't us \"carebears\" that did the dockinggame but the hardcore gankers.it's actually the \"l33t high sec pvp corporations\" that would suffer more from it since:a- they won't wardec 3 corporations at the same time that fast anymore because those \"soft\" targets might combine forces and own their tushies.b- those l33t high sec pvp corporations will have to device more tactics than undock and be able to redock carefree because their ship get's a neutral rep without any agressioncounter.so you see. the ones who would be hurt more would be those corporations that think that undock and redock is the way to pvp.consensual pvp is bullcrap. you consent into pvp the moment you undock. ganking is a form of pvp. like it or not. but why would those who have a lot of experience in ganking have easy ways out?and if you want consensual pvp just drop 1 ammo or so and let your designated consensual target loot it."
"personally i'd rather see jita's sec status dropped to 0.4 or lower, would solve the congestion problem overnight and would also give people like the op something to really complain about rather than wasting time producing threads like this one."
"a hack??lolno"
