"aye +1"
"the suggestion that capsuleers wouldn't wear a bra when it's literally a default part of the outfit amuses me."
"i have 5 accounts and every single character except two are female so i want the biggest bounciest ballslappiest boobs ever.also bootie."
"bra's aren't included in birthday suits.this message was brought to you in technicolor by a horny cynical iq."
"supported.regarding other clothing options. i wouldn't mind the bra if we could have only the bra and no jacket. but an unbuttoned sweater showing cleavage would suit me fine as well."
"so somebody already slammed out a nude mod? i'm even more amused.mainly though it's all the folks in this thread who hate and fear proper support that make me giggle. and i suppose you could argue cloning fixes your sag problems, but it's still a lovely and bizarre demonstration of girl."
"i saw a cool name (which probably isn't even a name but a description) and i want it. i am not capable of thinking of a name myself.seriously, sometimes people do come back after a long time and you absolutely don't ever do this or they are pissed off and gone for good. very bad business practise."
"i would be curious to know just how much server space would be freed up if they deleted all the trial accounts. +1"
"dormant paid accounts too.what right do you think you are 'owed' if you paid 14 dollars for 1 month and then didnt play for 7 years?if you do not pay for your car lease, it gets repo'dif you do not pay for your house mortgage, the bank takes it backif you do not pay rent, you get thrown out.only in eve you pay nothing - you still 'own it'.put in a 6 month to a 1 year dormant state clause, if that hapens your player gets copied to a backup server.if you come back - you pick a new name if your old one is taken and life goes on.when an account goes dormant the player is forced into an npc corp as well.there is no way for a corp to know currently if a player is 'active' or not.if i didnt pay for 1 year - i would fully expect to 'lose something', and with my above suggestion, i do not lose my 'skill time' i have put in the game, i just lose my magical name that i seem somehow so attached to a digital character."
"+1 for trial accounts only"
"its not about whats owed or not owed, and its not about revenge for not subscribing longer, its about ensuring we don't end up in a shallow name pool.the vast majority of names are held on trial accounts. deleting trial accounts is unarguably fair, and will release 75% of the names, at least. the only benefit to deleting paid accounts is that it will release specific names people might want.in exchange, it makes the chance of those people resubscribing almost zero. think about it, if you played for a while, decided eve needed growing time and left it for two years, came back and discovered that your name had been taken from you, would you feel charitable toward the publisher?of course not. so from that standpoint, trial account is all that's neccisary.and its $21 to subscribe for the first time."
"ccp makes a big deal out of reputation in eve. for that reason, i don't think past subscribers should lose their names. there might be some previously-notorious names in that last that haven't played in years, but their names should forever be associated with their characters.of course, wiping out characters would wreck things like killboards that rely on being able to look up character names."
"i feel a strong urge to loudly yell certain angry words at reading this.edit: not at you, trebor! i can tell the messenger from the source! ;)why the hell have an \"ideas and suggestions\" board and then a dedicated \"assembly hall\" board for pushing proposed changes further if you hate them?? if they just want to assess the relative frustrations of players regarding different areas of the game (\"fix bounties\" vs. \"fix insurance\" or the like), they could do this a lot easier for both us and themselves. this makes no sense!"
"hey, i never said i agreed with the philosophy, and it is by no means held by everyone in ccp. so these discussions have a purpose."
"can flipping isnt against the rulescan flipping in rookie systems is against the rulesthis prevents operation im bad at the game and need to kill rookies in frigs to feel better about myself."
"one of the best things that happened to me early on (my second day of trial i think on my first toon) was getting can flipped then blown up. lost virtually nothing due to only being in frig with ass for fittings, was taught hi-sec is not safe, and was prompted to immediatly go read up on aggro mechanics so i wouldn't be dumb enough to let something similar happen again. far better it happen in belt in the starter system than any time down the line when i was in a barge or exhumer. i'm not trying to pretend like i'm performing some public service when i go out stealing ore, but surely it's best to discover these things early."
"idiot forum, i've hit preview and everything i wrote went to waste. :)1. arena's for newbs-> pro's (seen it mentioend a lot). 1.1 you don't lose your ship you just go into 25% hull when the other is declared winner (or less w/e) 1.2 repair costs in the station for the arena re at 60% the usual (compared to a low rep npc owned station) to get some isk of the market 1.3 hisec restricted to t1 frigs up to t1 cruisers fights. 1.4 border hisec (0.5) arenas allow you to fly t2 cruisers 1.5 lowsec everything goes ( subcaps) 1.6 separated again into classes t1fits, t2's, faction, officer ? 1.7 the winner gets the winnings the npc corp owning the arena pays, a free repair, and a % of the bets put on his head. 1.8 people should get lp's just like in mission running, able to buy certain useful stuff off the market cheaper than the other guys( do to the extra hustle) 1.9 tweak it as such it becomes a viable income option for newbs-> pros (comparable to lvl 4 -> 5 mission runners) 1.10 also allow teams of up to 4-5 with points (just like at)2. bounty hunting system made like any other mission system. 2.1 every player is divided into classes according to they're sp value. so a 4 mil sp player won't go after a 20 mil one.(hm?) 2.2 when you accept your mission you get a number of 4-5 bounty's around a 5-10 jump radius, with a specification in witch type of ship they are in ex (t2 frig gallente) so you can pick a t2 frig yourself or a max of a t1 cruiser (so the fight is fair for both players) and pick a target. 2.3 only the bounty hunter may shoot his target, anyone assisting will get insta targeted by concord/gateguns w/e. 2.4 only the target may fight with the hunter, anyone assisting will get instapoped in any hisec,lowsec (guns) (just like kill rights, 1 time but by the npc) and a 1 point drop in security just so this is not encouraged at all. 2.5 the bounty hunter gets a target system where the target is; the target is not allowed to leave the system, dock up (to change ship, this is argumented in 2.2) but again the fight is fair ( close types of ships) 2.6 also the mission should not last longer than 20-30 mins max, so it doesn't become a nuisance for the player that has the bounty on his head. 2.7 the player with the bounty on his head has a max of 2 missions assigned to him per day, if he wins (beats the hunter) he gets lp to a criminal syndicate where he can also buy stuff) so it is fun for both sides.. 2.8 the player with the bounty only loses 20% (hm?) of the bounty on his head if he gets poped, and get's added the value of the ship lost by the bounty hunter, if he wins.hope you read it veil rat, and hopefully there are some good ideas in there.have a sexy time,o/edit: also this might also open a path for the burglar career, you can steal stuff from certain corps ( npc corps mostly) and that would make the npc corp's add bounty's to players, and so the bounty hunters would have more targets.and so the burglars will win isk/lp's from stealing from certain corps at the criminal syndicate, and also lp's for surviving the bounty attacks. and so we have a fun cycle of pvp missions, extra career options, and a new way of making highsec fun and pvp viable .. at your own risk of course."
"couldn't a system similar to the current ihub system be used? upgrades or modules can be attached to a hub which upgrades sec by 0.1; destroying hub modules reduces by 0.1. the hub itself would go through a reinforcement cycle, though instead of being destroyed it would just offline untill repaired/restarted. (thus resetting sec to the original value).this could also be used to introduce players to sov concepts and wars in lower sec systems."
"i know i'm double posting but dgaf.usually i wouldn't take anyone from the orphanage seriously but unfortunately as other people may fall into this trap and vile rat is trying to do something to benefit you (not specifically fecal stains like you, but people in highsec) i felt a ~seriouspost~ was required.contrary to popular belief the csm while primarily nullsec players are not entirely focused on one aspect of the game, sure the supercap nerf is most applicable to nullsec i can assure you that the gallente buff is a boon to all and not just the evil overlord super elite puppetmasters.some of the ideas in this thread are actually goodposts and i applaud vile rat in his attempts to reach out and better a sizeable part of the game, i am sure that all or at least most of the csm would back any well thought out ideas benefitting low and high sec as it is in their best interest to balance and enhance the game for everyone (fun game = more players coming in = more people to play with/shoot at)"
"making isk is so painful and boring that everyone in high sec quakes in fear at the tiniest sign of losing it. making isk should be fun again. losing isk should be funner.pve overhaul.cheaper pvp. insurance for implants. a melting pot low sec pvp arena with ridiculous prizes, *i'm talking vcr's and toasters people!*.no one wants to play with their expensive toys. this needs fixing."
"dumping security designations like high-sec, null-sec, low-sec and just having a grade system that radiates out from civilization centers sounds great even though the convention is likely to be continued to be used for the sake of convenience.so do patrols rather than too many static units.eve can use quite a few tweaks and twiddles to be sure, but the idea of pushing/forcing/punishing high-seccers into lower sec areas and into higher levels of pvp is just bad business and fights the nature of a species the majority of which wishes to survive and procreate which is why they create governments and military forces and police forces in the first place...and try not to fight wars...and build cities that are mostly safe, not places for gangs to land helicopters and loot walmart at gunpoint and fly away or dogfight over central park with live ammo.just because some of the player base, (regardless of percentage), so completely embraces their inner droog, (clockwork orange), doesn't mean most of ccps potential player base will, in fact it's highly unlikely they would.sell the advantages of going to lower sec areas if you want high-sec people to go to low/null-sec. people like advantages.if there aren't any you shouldn't expect people to go there. humans are practical. eve is a game. people want to be entertained. sell the entertainment in lower security areas.if there isn't any you shouldn't expect people to go there. humans are practical.a lot of this business pretty much amounts to: \"leave new york and come to somalia!!! you'll love it here...\"\"oh come on guys we all know new york is boring/stagnant/irrelevant...somalia is where the cool/pro kids hang out.\"...people basically want to change \"welcome to new york\" to \"welcome to somalia\" and then complain about the poor tourist trade and how few people want to do business there. people are basically complaining that the risk/reward ratio is worse in somalia than it is in new york.of course it is...humans as a group do not like the wild, wild, west. humans as a species like to pick their fights as much as possible and to protect their assets, not engage in weekly reruns of the epic high seas movie of your choice or worse yet, the null-sec version of \"waterworld\"... carebears run most modern civilizations now and there is no reason to think they won't in the next ten thousand years. most humans would much rather be bill gates than vladimir putin. that's just how things are. try starting from that position and deal with the realities of human thought processes from that perspective. it will make game changes much easier to filter through and implement at all security levels.that said, there's a number of good ideas in this thread. keep going!...here's a cookie!!!modified from original post \"enticing\" removed"
"this is the only paragraph i really wanted to comment on, for one simple reason: what's wrong with enticing hiseccers into going into lowsec/nullsec? there's literally no other way to get people out there, they won't move there unless they want to."
"i will accept responsibility for using the word \"enticing\" where i should not have. i will edit appropriately.the fact is, who in their right mind would venture out into low/null-sec in-game or in a real life equivalent if they were not specifically looking for that lifestyle or there was a risk worth taking?draw them out, yes, force them out, no.create new reasons to come out, rather than simply strangle the current reasons to stay in."
"literally the only thing i can see, offhand, that needs to be nerfed in hisec right now, is incursions. other than that, what i think needs to be done is to both make sov incentivize using multiple small fleets to attack multiple solar systems (so there's actual strategy in where fleets are deployed and what number, instead of just pack 1000+ into one system 6 times and move on to the next), and increase the rewards dramatically for the individual pilot in lowsec and nullsec. it would probably be best if it wasn't even a raw isk reward, but just all-round qualitative improvements for the individual pilot. better research, manufacturing, refine, mining, you name it, it should just be better and more lucrative.not every rebalance has to be a heavy-handed nerf to hisec. :colbert:"
"addendum:it shouldn't be too hard to get them to pass through lower-sec areas more often but t's unlikely you will get them to move to low/null-sec in any large numbers because they don't want to live those lifestyles and i don't think there is any way to incentivize high-sec players to move there that will not break the spirit and flavor of ccps intent regarding those areas.why are so many people trying so hard to get high-sec people to play a style of game they clearly aren't rushing out to play especially when the foundation setup of the eve universe, those pesky star nations with their governments and military forces and police forces, specifically supports and encourages carebear play?what is wrong with wanting to build corps based in empire that operate in low/null-sec and then run back to high-sec?that's the smart thing to do, yes? us sends troops out, troops come back home (eventually). the us isn't going to move to the middle east.it's supposed to not be such a great place to live precisely because people want free reign to run around and beat on other people nearly at will. there will be less law enforcement, more crime and fewer resources to go around--that's the whole point!most humans do not like living like that and so they will avoid exposing themselves to it, in-game or out.ccp can have a free for all pvp game with less structure and more pvp if they want...and, i suspect, fewer subscriptions...just have a high-tech alien race take out the jovians and bomb the eve universe into submission and reboot it. or they can draw in a larger more consistent customer base that wants to play their game because the game offers so many opportunities and choices than just \"null-sec for everyone!!!...we enjoy making you sad and we want to do it as often as possible, hahaha!!!.\" if they really can choose to be donald (carebear) trump or warren (carebear) buffet rather than muammar (former dictator) ghadafi some of them may well choose to become \"the dread pirate buylow sellhigh\" down the road.the low/null sec people who are trying to get more players out of high-sec into low/null-sec need stop talking about what they want and concentrate solely on what the people they are trying to entice to lower sec areas want.you want their business? market to them, not yourselves. that's how it's done.it all still comes down to if people want to move into lower sec areas and live lower sec lifestyles or not.if they don't, they don't. move on. it's their isk to spend"
"low sec will always suffer from low population because its too easy to get killed.the tank vs dps balance is way too in favour of dps.... fights are over before they even get started alot of the time.most good skilled pvp pilots can one shot any industrial or mining barge and frigs are vaporised by the smartbombing bs that sits on most low sec gates this is not fun for anyone really. it should take longer to kill your victim and strategy to win the fight should be a major factor in deciding the outcome and not simply lock scram and alpha which is how the current form of pvp seems to be.things i see that ruin the length of a good fight. pvp in eve online is like a quick shag down an alleyway.pvp in eve online should be more like a full on porn movie..... both sides enjoy a good bit of foreplay first.... playing with fiddly bits for a while to get ye all hot n bothered then follows the penetration culminating in the money shot.i just wish the fight would actually last longer (lol many women would say that about the sex )in solo engagements most victims die within two to three volleys. thats too quick....the money making opportunities in low sec stink tbh.roids are just as crap as high sec, missions are pretty much the same has high sec except you have no concord to keep ganker's at bay. this isk payout is the same.ded sites in low sec are not that great either.to entice more people into low sec why not quadruple the bounties paid out on npc kills for missioners in low secdoing an l4 in low sec would then pay 4x as much as the same l4 in high sec would.add abc ores to low sec albeit in smaller quantitiesadd hiden ice belts in low sec that have any type of ice in it.reduce the taxes on trading in low sec and allow anyone install jump clones in any low sec system but charge a higher isk cost. (high sec is 250,000isk but needs a standing of 8.0 with that corp) low sec should only require a standing of 4.0 with the corp but also charge 1mil isk for the clone)increase the yields when refining ores in low sec by 25% meaning you get 25% more trit if u refine veld in low sec compatred to high sec.increase the rate of 6/10/7/10 & 8/10 ded plexes spawning in low sec. and for the love of god fix the faction pos / pos mod bpc drop rate. make low sec the only source of the faction pos bpcs/open up 0.4 sec systems for moon mining/reaction towers and capital ship production arrays."
"a lot of folks are saying \"highsec needs less reward for the low risk it carries.\"why? what is the in-game effect people object to?high-sec is all about as much low-risk high reward as is possible and it is designed that way and no amount of constant denial and repeating of \"high-sec should be have a worse risk/reward ratio and be less profitable\" will make that any less true.that doesn't mean changes won't help but there are reasons why wall street usa is wall street and one of them is definitely where wall street is. it's in high-sec and it is run by carebears who usually try for the greatest reward with the least risk and avoid getting into wars unless they can make a profit.put together some numbers comparing high-sec and null-sec and show justification for wanting to close a risk/reward ratio and profitability gap that should already be fairly significant given the two environments.heck you have more piracy, drugs and human slavery than high-sec...at least you should.people keep talking about higher payoffs for missions in low/null-sec...who exactly is going to pay for that?...i know the deep pockets of high-sec companies can pay for theirs and i am not saying payoffs should not be increased for missions. what i am asking is, \"what is the logical basis for asking someone to pay you more money which decreases their profit margins without a coherent idea of what extra value you bring to justify the increase in pay?\"again, all those resources automagically renew and you can do missions forever...and again you did choose to live there. choosing to live above your means is not a good reason to pay you more..."
"nope.jpgsorry but i actually play games to, you know, play them. its not cost effective, and even just theorycrafting its implementation leads to massive design issues."
"concept: i like itexecution: nohere's what i would do, make a module that allows you to passively target someone while cloaked. then the module will cool down for 5 seconds and after that time will automatically decloak you. once you activate the module you cannot stop the decloak timer. this will allow you to prime your weapons and engage an enemy almost before you decloak. the victim then has to react, target (and depending on what ship your in that could be a while) and then engage you. enough time for you to get a few volleys off. it creates the same effect without any complicated new mechanics. it's a passive targeting system with a decloak timer on it. also as a side note, if you use it and your already decloaked, it acts like a passive targeter.tl:dr add a decloak timer to passive targeters and enable there use while cloaked.mmos come and go, but eve remains. -garresh-"
"this would be horribly imbalanced considering the pilgrim's lack of guns.edit: here's a simpler solution to making recons more effective. give them the ability to passively target one ship while cloaked, so that upon decloak they can immediately engage. that or allow them to use the passive targeter while cloaked, forcing them to use up a mid slot.edit: and then i read the post above mine :)"
":) are you saying people actually fly the pilgrim?ok i love my pilgrim but it doesn't have much use in a gank n shank black ops hot drop fleet.mmos come and go, but eve remains. -garresh-"
"i'm through with arguing with the op, who doesn't seem to understand how eve works.this is by far a superior proposal to that of op. supported."
"can't support the op's proposal even though i like the concept as it is to complicated and potentially unbalancing but the above idea has merit."
"going to have to chime in with the greek chorus here and say that, while the op left me tepid, this is brilliant. we're not just talking \"made the best of a bad idea\" here, this i really like as its own thing. it's simple, succinct, straightforward and well integrated with existing mechanics. can the thread be about this now? could possibly expand on it. maybe have it work only with cov ops cloaks? (so it is specifically a buff to stealth ships, and not to any random boat packing a cloaking device.) and possibly a skill (\"advanced cloaking\"?) to extend the decloak timer? ideas, anyone?"
"i am ninja werewolf assassin backstab damage 10d6+stun 100%seriously bad idea. recons are recons no damage. get buddy to kill if you cant grind them to death slowly."
"agreed, it's not much use in a blops gang, but that doesn't mean it shouldn't be equally buffed.passive targeters working while cloaked would make recons really excel at their jobs, and i dont think would grossly overpower them."
"ccp and others have a dream of a independent nullsec, but this is impossible or impractical for a number of reasons. also want more of a draw to it other then moons, with current nerfs to anoms people can make more or the same mission running in empire or incursions. to draw more people to nullsec it needs to be self sufficient and have more rewards, less empty space more people playing the player driven and owned parts.to summarize quickly why nullsec is not independent would be to mention what only is currently produced by it, which is a much shorter list then what is not. moongoo, isk, high end minerals, and loot from one type of faction, including faction and officer mods. ice exists in nullsec, but it is of one racial type. planetary materials (and products) are richer in nullsec.what doesn't exist in any one nullsec region is all the above not mentioned, a mighty long list of essential stuff to do anything, but here are the key ones.1. multi racial or faction equipment in any region: unless alliances chose to be all one race of the region they live in (none do) they need equipment for 3 out of the 4 races that don't spawn. pirate factions overlap races, but each specialize in ways so ideally one would want access to all of them for fitting any pvp or pve gear. high metas regardless are desired by people who don<U+FFFD>t have skills for tech 2, certain fittings, or saving isk.2. 3/4ths of ice ore, towers and captials don't run without it. you can change towers to whatever is racial in region, but even then some are more desired for certain towers for mining, industry, or deathstar. capitals are another matter you train for those in a year or more, and some are more desired then others so choosing them based off spawning isotopes is unlikely (matar are known for sub par capitals, gallente have the covented carrier and super carrier). add to that, the fact it can be mined in empire in safety for little isk per hour makes people want to do anything but ice mining in null.3. low ends, that high end (rare) minerals are more to be hand or actually exist in nullsec leaves low ends the domain of botters and afk people in empire. much like ice, even if it is present in null that it can be done more safely for low isk per hour in empire makes most residents in null turn nose on it.4. anything that cannot be produced by players or player stations. ccp made a good decision in releasing planetary interaction to make things more player driven. but still no player owned station or region has blueprint originals, command centers (not imported), datacores, or skillbooks. all of these are required for many important things, lacking them draws you to empire, while you are their may as well do shopping for all of the above.to address these here are the following ideas.1. any faction can spawn in any nullsec region, have the regional faction be represented in all belts and 50% of anominalys/complexes (so overly represented and in high quantity) but have the rest be a mix of others.2. in addition to the static ice, have gravimetric spawns of ice (mini ice belt that has limited supply) that will be 50% one racial and a mix with the rest, the few systems with static ice belts be ten fold more likely to spawn these then systems without them. to increase desire to mine ice in more dangerous sec, make the quantity of isotopes able to be extracted doubled for null what you can get in empire, and 1.5 for lowsec, removing static ice in highsec would have the same effect it as well, but that would be a huge game changer. i support changing nullsec regardless of decision made on it but i woudn't want other improvements tied to something that is very controversial, and can be debated elsewhere. 3. have the quality of ore much different in null then empire, so have rich (null) versions spawn double the minerals and plentiful (lowsec) 1.5, and have it so the quality of ore chosen for each security are only ones found commonly. that way you could also spawn all types of ore in empire and lowsec but morphite. so empire can be resource independent from null as well, but just be of lower yielding types (risk vs reward). 4. one option is having player owned stations spawning any npc community, being that generation of these is artificial anyway who is to say that little robots or citizens inside player owned stations cannot produce these as well. another option for blueprints, command centers and skillbooks is have them be random spawns in complexes, animomalys, or rats. that would give more rewards to players ratting without promoting inflation or too much minerals (primary domain of mining). down side of spawns would take away isk sink, and the shear number of blueprints and skillbooks makes setting up a player driven market difficult at best. datacores can be acquired (solely) from complexes that are more common and plentiful in the lower sec you go, making researching more of a activity that is better to set up in null.other things to fix1. moons, (revised) regional differences are ok but you can<U+FFFD>t have it too unbalanced ie 90% of tech moons (limiting reagent) all in the galactic north. 2. stations, you only get one in null, and its really bad compared with others found anywhere else. considering you can<U+FFFD>t get multiple in same system it should be upgradeable to do what ten empire stations can do all in one. without upgrades being of the same quality still as one or more empire station, in production, refining, researching, and or office space.3. anything elseby making each nullsec region able to be able to be self sufficient, people will chose to be as much as they want."
"i was a carebear for two years before moving to null and i can honestly say that the ganks, griefer wardecs and scams i either saw or was victim of were 95% perpetrated by hisec residents upon their fellow hisec residents. the honest truth is at the time i welcomed these distractions from the monotony of the isk grind, without them hisec would have been so boring after the first few months i'd have left the game. now that i live in null the only time i visit hisec is when i jump into my +5 clone because i'm off line for a few days. apart from logistics considerations hisec is of no interest to most of us in null, we left that stagnant pond behind a long time ago and are better for it. you hisec residents love to blame null for your woes but the truth is your doing it to yourselves most of the time and we are just a convenient way of avoiding admitting it."
"-1 for obviously not reading my post. not once did i blame null for my woes. -1 for being yet another kneejerk \"high-sec means nothing to null-sec/it's a stagnant pond/it's all high-secs fault anyway\" parrot. if that were all true then null-seccers wouldn"
"highsec needs less reward for the low risk it carries. other than that, leave it be."
"high-sec is all about as much low-risk high reward as is possible and it is designed that way and no amount of constant denial and repeating of \"high-sec should be have a worse risk/reward ratio and be less profitable\" will make that any less true.there are reasons why wall street usa is wall street and one of them is definitely where wall street is.it's in high-sec and it is run by carebears who usually try for the greatest reward with the least risk and avoid getting into wars unless they can make a profit.\"high-sec should be have a worse risk/reward ratio and be less profitable\"? no, not so much.people keep talking about higher payoffs for missions in low/null-sec...who is going to pay for that?i know the deep pockets of high-sec companies can pay for theirs and i am not saying payoffs should not be increased for missions. what i am asking is, \"what is the logical basis for asking someone to pay you more money which decreases their profit margins without a coherent idea of what extra value you bring to justify the increase in pay?\"again, all this stuff automagically renews and you can do missions forever. choosing to live above your means is not a good reason to pay you more.no cookie for you...okay you can have a cookie...edited for cookie."
"taking some of this with me and dropping this second thread as well.go to"
"when you wish to add names to your address book/watchlist you need to right click and add contact for each person you wish to add, this gets tiresome when you wish to add a lot of people in one go (e.g. during a war dec).i propose there should be an easier way to add names in bulk (like cntl+click on names to select multiple names) or that you can setup a corporate level watch so that the members of your corporation has access to a watch list without each member having to create their own."
"so you can set up bulk supercap/wardec target watchlists? no. the point of the watchlist is so you can see when people you want to talk to come online, it's not supposed to be an intel tool for seeing when people you want to run from/kill come online. not supported at all."
"you're under-utilizing a very nice tool to have friend."
"we do it now. this just makes it so that 200 people don't have to perform the same actions.as with bookmarks, it's silly that these things can't be transmitted."
"jeez, just when i thought i'd come up with an orginal idea, google says someone beat me too it :) .i don't think this idea was really considered, it have some great benefits if done right:-increased consumption with which to drive the economy-super capitals become assets that require an organized multi person/corp/alliance effort to maintain-could lead to a slow down or decrease in super capital production (as some of the raw materials needed to build new ones now get diverted to [/i]maintaining[/i] existing ones)i'm sure there are others, but it all hinges on \"it's it's done right\".it should take big quantities of fuel/parts to keep the things serviceable. it should be hard for a single player (even with mutiple accounts) to maintain a super. as is now, most of my corp haven't individually owned super capitals. i'm not fond of real life comparisons, but modern navies don't just buy aircraft carriers and then say \"hey, that's it, we just need to buy some fuel or replace an f/a-18 every now and again\" lol. part oft he problem is that supers are \"one man shows\" that anyone with access to sanctums and 45-60 days for free time can rat up. their should be some kind of maintenance cost, even if just an isk on like sov costs (i do think pos fuels is the best idea, else the super would fall into disrepair and be unusable or degrade in some way.but, the other side of the coin is that super should be powerful enough for people or alliances to want to go through the pain of building, owning and maintaining them. ideally ,null sec would have fewer super caps, but people would actually use them, making for interesting times in space. with the currently planned nerf, the most likely outcome is that people will simply use them less because they are a massive investment that is not more vulnerable (in a perfect world, this would not be the case). i stopped training for an aeon for this reason."
"because fw should be in lowsec for the most part. highsec fw doesnt even sound good. it will be the same except pirates can't bug you.make fw worth doing then people will join it and go to lowsec to pvp"
"if you remove the fw navy npcs you make essentially all space equal. there is no longer enemy or friendly space. there is only space.we can already dock at the enemy militias stations which is ridiculous by itself.-> boring"
"no need to change orca's tractor bonus..... with new t2 tractor beams coming in the range on an orca will be about 100km....... that is more than enough."
"i shrug. capital tractor beams seem as though they'd be more appropriate to the orca; and the orca pilots i've talked to about that agree.that said, at present, and as a practical note, unless the rorqual is changed so as to make it viable in belts, the capital tractor beam has no reason to exist. if the orca could use them effectively (which is to say, presuming the final numbers work out such that the capital tractor beams would be more effective for an orca then regular, small-ship tractor beams), then they'd be used and valuable. if neither of these occurs, then they'll remain a white elephant."
"interesting subject seems like there is no 100% right position beyond ccp should appreciate 100% of it's subscribers, solo or multiplayer."
"off topic posts removed."
"how the **** was my post off topic.**** you"
"ccp are a bigger joke than they was before. anyone that thinks the people behaving like this are going to 'change' is ********."
"welp, its gone to outright censorship of anyone speaking out. wtf. all i got consored for was suggesting all these threads should be compiled in the same place so we can keep track.guess ccp doesn't want all the lies used to cover it, and the reason those are bad excuses, in the same place.ofc, this is the same company still maintaining a vendetta after all these years, so guess we shouldn't be surprised. silly vikings.edit: btw, having a post deleted doesn't cause you to lose all the likes you got on that post!"
"as the op for this thread i was perfectly fine with having those deleted posts in this thread. doesn't it seem a little silly to be deleting posts in a thread about censorship?how about this. someone from ccp lists the qualifications to become uncensored and work with kugu to meet them? despite what you may think of kugu the person, the site has a life of its own that is seperate and has no agenda driven by him.stop censoring kugutesumenutilize the community there as an enhancement to your gameshow that you are not the complete incompetents at comminity management you were in the past (the guys you fired)????profit"
"this is all it would take. but it'll never happen."
"they key point here is that someone or bodies at ccp are still sore enough over t20 to misdirect and shut-down attempts to address the censorship of k.comin short, you're worse than my grandmother. let it the **** go and grow up."
"what part of my post was offtopic? :tinfoil:since its bleeped out i can't even remember what i wrote, but it was probably something about how mal-ware accusations and the idea that my eve account is gonna be haxx0red as a result of logging in is laughably false.still, at least the thread isn't locked. now how's about ccp tell us what you need on our end to get kugu uncensored and we hash out the details, m'kay?"
"where's the rest of the thread? did ccp really just delete a bunch of posts?"
"so let me get this straight.you left the posts by your supporter rinm that are, quite literally, not about what is going on in this thread and instead about what went on in the last thread and where some of its participants are intact.but you removed the rebuttals.you sir are a liar and a cad."
"in other news, i shall preserve at least one post that proves the censorship is in fact negotiable, because ccp was willing to negotiate.**** phantom if he can't take a joke at ccp's expense.from xutech's lips to the ears of anyone in iceland who isn't suffering rectocrainal inversion:"
"how nazl of you."
"my post (regarding ccp's attempts to advertise on our site while not offering any sort of incentive other than a magazine subscription) was wandering at times (especially the parts regarding the pitiful lives of xutech and vinata, bromates) but was completely on topic."
"i hear censoring a thread thats about unjustified censorship is a good idea. ccp's motto: if it isn't broken, break it. if it is broken, ignore it. improving npe / dynamic new eden"
"now if this really bothers hilmar or somebody that much about making peace with what is apparently the largest eve fansite still standing, i suggest they retreat to the bunker of fearless, stick their fingers in their ears, and hum real loud while someone mature enough to handle the task takes over.instead of standing in the open with their fingers in their ears humming real loud while the world watches them do it."
"so exactly how was asking how my accounts are at risk from my kugu lurking off topic? i'd still like to know. got any proof? has anyone on this forum ever had their account hacked because of kugu?"
"yeah, seriously. ccp devs had enough interest to delete posts that hurt their feelings but not enough give-a-**** to clarify accusations made by their security expert on potential threats to a large number of their customers.stop gestapoing up this thread and give us some answers!!"
"because big brother ccp says so. that's all the ~words~ you need, now go sub more accounts so i can buy that new three wheel motorcycle thing. /hilmarfree kugutsumen!"
"not empty quotin'"
"so if kugu can hack my account without even knowing an account name, possibly not even a character name, then somebody at ccp has seriously ****** up and i think we deserve to know about it.or darius is lying.pick one."
"essentially one of ccps idiot madmins dug himself a hole, but rather than own up to it and laugh it off they censor everything to cover it up.not sure how you guys do things in iceland but the rest of the free world kinda looks down on that sort of thing.seriously, admit you made a mistake. admit you have made mistakes for a long time now. hilmar already said as much when he did his post about how they were killing eve, and look at all the great changes that will be coming out in the next patch. keep up this winning streak of bringing back the respect of the community and showing you are committed to improving all aspects of eve. especially the community aspect, which is in my opinion the greatest asset eve has."
"i gave you a chance to fix your petty asshattery ccp. you blew it, specifically:screegs blew it by being suddenly butt-hurt over something he played a ******* part in when it happened!navigator blew it by trying to play heavy-handed internet cop on the last thread. good job, ya sod. **** the k.com crowd off even more.phantom blew it by selectively deleting posts that he claims were off topic. you do realize we are keeping score of your actions right?it's clear to me now ccp will not change. **** the letter from hilmar, **** the winter expansion. it's tripe without a responsive community. instead we have a group of nimrod's who are still butt-hurt one of their own got caught cheating four years ago.after all the bumbling, inept things you have done this year (ex. incarna, nex store, fearless) after losing so many subscribers you'd think these people could at least try not to insert their own foot when they open their mouths. but apparently they are too good at it to stop themselves. but as you love to say \"every action has it's consequences.\" so now comes the harvest of the seeds you have planted.your butt-hurt, ****-fueled, child-like vendetta has cost you 4 subscriptions today ccp. some will laugh and some will troll my decision. but i for one will not pay perfectly good money on your smoke and mirrors double-standard bullshit anymore.so later on people. i'm going to go find what i was paying ccp to get, cause i sure as **** am not getting it here."
"this censorship bullshit has gone too far now. admit to your mistakes or don't bother responding.(i bet you'll take the latter)"
"off topic posts removed. please stay on topic, thank you."
"not supported.apart from making hisec duller than it already is (hard to believe) this proposal would heavily impact the market at the least reducing if not destroying the income of many traders and manufacturers and the incomes of miners who rely upon them."
"if highsec became a no pvp zone then all the gankers and pirates would have to *gasp!!!* go to lowsec and nullsec *gasp!!!*. alas...that would also mean they would need some kind of skill for pvp so ultimately it would not work."
"more money, and no reason to ever spend it. wonderful."
"remove insurance payouts for people who get concorded and for people who self-destruct. i'd be fine with that.if you want your hulk to be tougher, put a tank on it. you'll give up performance, but that's what happens: if you want a tough ship, it's slower and carries less. idiots who think that their miner should be supertanked so they can't be ganked don't understand that there's a reason real-life industrial hardware isn't armored."
"you're cute."
"i try."
"this idea is better.except the buff concord bit... concord is fine as it is."
"also buffing industrials and barges is a bad idea."
"anything that removes ice from high sec as it is wil have a devastating effect on the economy. you take it away from where the people live that are willing to harvest it and you'll find they'll simply harvest something else rather than go where they simply don't want to be. it's really that simple. drastic supply reductions in ice fuels will crush everything from research to inventions to t3 production. high sec and wormhole pos's would be brutalized. people would leave, simple as that.it may turn out good for a few, but it would be bad for eve. real bad."
"but...but...but...if we don't remove ice from highsec and give it to nullsec how will the people in nullsec possibly make any isk at all?think of the children!/sarcasm"
"1.0"
"bumping for posterity."
"ccp stop boost matar!they already have most agile and and speedy ships.let's give em the best close ammo.no penalty reduction to hail or make same bonuses to all t2 close ammo."
"cry more"
"ccp stop this matar herecy!. or boost holy lasors!p.s. blaster falloff too"
"did you even look at it after the changes? after the changes it's pretty much even with rf fusion. no crying needed."
"you just got trolled"
"if it's still worse than rf fusion for what hell they make this boost ??? hail vs rf fusion explosive damage 48.4 hp vs 46 kinetic damage 13.2 hp vs 9.2at all 11% more dmg with penalty only 30% for trackingyou know how big matari falloff isvoid vs cn antimattierkinetic damage 30.8 hp vs 32.2thermal damage 30.8 hp vs 23same 11% more dmg but penalty 25% for track ,50% to fallofwe know that both optimal and falloff are critical for blasters.i suppose that -25% to optimal and -25% to fallof would be fair for void ammo"
"supported. hail isn't the close range t2 ammo that needs boost. with the ac engagement range, especially after boost, the tracking penalty is effectively nonexistent, unlike with blasters. this leaves a flat dmg boost over faction ammo."
"i'm shouting because everyone else is!"
"whiny ****. shuttup and stop littering the hall."
"i personally would like to see more buffs to things rather than nerf everything to hell.even without the penalties, hail isn't that over powered.think void definitely needs looked at."
"void needs to lose the cap usage penalty.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"this is an attempt to conciliate the demands of players who don't want to be forced into a style of play they don't enjoy (pvp) and the sandbox principle. on the one hand, we have players who don't want to be forced to pvp when all they want is either pve, mine, etc. within the boundaries of high security space without having to live in fear of being ganked. on the other hand, we have players who want to be able to shoot and kill anything they see anywhere it goes. players who believe that the one thing that makes the game what it is, is precisely that there is nowhere in the whole of eve space that is 100% safe.i suggest that it is possible to devise a set of game mechanics that accommodate both. in short:0.5 to 0.7: keep systems with security rating of 0.5 to 0.7 as they are now, that is, systems where non-consensual pvp is possible although it will provoke the intervention of concord or, better, the navy of the faction who controls the system. 0.8 to 1.0: consensual pvp only for systems with security rating 0.8 or above. dynamic, player regulated security rating system: introduce a set of mechanics to allow players to affect the security rating of a system through their actions. it should be possible to affect the rating of the system through non-pvp methods, as well as pvp and pve ones. a good starting point would be current factional warfare mechanics that allow for a hybrid of pvp and pve, but it should also be possible to affect it by non-pvp/e means. for instance, these are some ideas about ways in which the security rating of a system could be increased other than doing pvp/pve: players could donate isk to the <U+FFFD>war chest<U+FFFD> of the navy that controls the system, be it caldari, gallente, amarr or minmatar. donating goods like ships hulls, modules, ammunition might be a better way to do this though. build and deploy infrastructure in space for the faction. this could be done by requesting a mission through a special agent who gives you the coordinates to a dead space pocket where players can deploy and anchor special type of sensors that will help the navy keep the system safe for instance. when the mission is finished, the pocket disappears and the server can redeploy it at a later stage if necessary. another method to increase the security status of a system could be by contagion, that is, increasing the security rating of adjacent systems the principle of a self-regulated sandbox in which players govern their interactions would be respected, but at the same time it would give those who want to avoid pvp a set of game mechanics that they can use to earn the privilege of a safe heaven where non-consensual pvp is not allowed."
"no, having anytype of safe system (non consensual pvp) just makes eve wow in space. hell to the no."
"how exactly are they being forced again? no one forced them to pay, down load the game, consent to the rules or log in. are we supposed to accommodate for these sheeple because it makes them feel bad? and why are we punishing the peeps that understand the game for what it is, and has to cater to someone that do not want to play by the same rules and mechanics?"
"hi, i don't like to be forced to pay the prices \"market pvp\" players set for the ships, modules and charges i need to play eve with. i believe that buying things from other players should be a choice, not forced upon me.so everything in game should be available from npcs at 100 isk, so i am not griefed by greedy \"market gankers\"."
"what the hell is wrong with people these days?you knew what eve was when you downloaded it. you knew what it was when you undocked. and you sure as hell knew what it was when you fired on that red flashy in the belt that popped your shiney barge.there is no non-consensual pvp in eve (except suicide gankers but that's something else). you choose to shoot at people or you don't. don't shoot and you will never know about the bad people flying around.eve is fine the way it is. don't like it then why the hell play it?definite no from me on this proposal. in fact, any proposal that 'protects' people from eve game mechanics will get a resounding no from me."
"i don't like pvp and i'm a bit of a care bear, but would have to say no. it's the danger of this harsh universe that keeps it fun.i don't mind the idea of a grace period for noobs, but that would take a lot of work to stop the throw away alts being used for griefing"
"not this again. please no.there will never be arenas. highsec will never be 100% safe. non-consensual pvp will always exist in eve, and the bad guys will get you if you have something they want. instead of begging ccp to turn over eight years of game design, why don't you ask for help on how to avoid losing?edit: let me spell out what banning non-consensual pvp means. two alliances go to war over a territorial dispute. one alliance knows a number of the highsec mining alts operated by the other. but now, with these proposed rules, those neutral alts are perfectly safe in spite of the fact that their every action contributes to an alliance that is at war. they can mine indefinitely with zero risk, even though they work for the enemy.if you make a safe zone, all the industrial and research alts would never leave that zone because they would be perfectly safe there.in other words, no."
"what i want, contrary to what most of you are reading, is not that they actually go and encroach the right to avoid pvp, but that when/if they allow for that right to exist, that they do it in a way that leaves it open for other players to challenge and contest it. what is more, i even claim the right to challenge the existence of any security status at all, since a system of contesting security ratings would leave empire open to be downgraded to 0.0 if players allow it/fight for it.it may happen that ccp, desperate to stop losing subscriptions and eager to attract new players, makes the stupid mistake of messing with the sandbox by introducing a form of regulated pvp in empire so that people who want to avoid pvp entirely can do it with none having the ability to challenge them. that would be the end of the sandbox.instead of having ccp come up with some immutable hard-coded way of <U+FFFD>being-safe<U+FFFD>, i would rather have a system that leaves it up to players to determine with their ingame actions whether there are safe heavens in the first place, and i think that empire is at the moment a safe heaven. if we don't want for there to be anywhere in eve where a player cannot be ganked, or even have the protection of concord at all, then we just have to keep the security rating of all systems below 0.8, 0.5 or plain 0.0. we, the players.with so many of us agreeing about not wanting safe heavens, my suggestion would surely amount to as much as not having safe-heavens at all, perhaps even making all of eve 0.0, with the difference that neither the right to shoot anyone anywhere nor the right to not be shot in certain places would be ccp sponsored but player regulated."
"whelp neuts in local..... time to play battlefield 3.but seriously though, the one problem i have with afk cloaking on a philosophical level is that it makes you 100% safe. just warp to something at 100 and cloak up. or make an off grid safe and cloak.the one thing i really like about eve is that no matter what you are doing you are never really safe. it doesn't matter if you are mining in highsec you can still get shot.but in eve there are two instances where you are totally invulnerable. when you are docked in a station and when you are in a safe spot cloaked.now ideally when incarna comes out (real walking in stations incarna, not playing dress up in your studio apartment incarna.) you'll be able to kick in their captain's quarters door and shoot someone in the face. so maybe the docked up hostiles thing will be something we can get to later on.but in the meantime it baffles me that someone can fly into the most unsafe space in the game (nullsec) into a system full of people that want to shoot them on sight and just turn on a module on their ship that allows them to go afk for hours on end completely 100% safe. i'd give cloaked ships the tiniest signature so that you'd need an actual probing ship or faction probes to find them. and even then it'll take 10 minutes or so. just long enough that if the cloaked person is moving around and actively putting effort into not being found they'll be more or less ok.if this was one of those pansy orcs and elves mmos if someone was hiding in a pvp zone afk you could just search the bushes until you found where they were hiding and beat them to death.seriously guys i don't want eve to be a game where you can be safer in pvp in a cloaked ship than some poofter rogue hiding in world of warcraft.i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"for one, the recent addition of a 100m/h isk faucet called incursions.why should hisec be lower risk and higher reward than lowsec or nullsec? what sort of incentives should anyone have for leaving?if i could stand the gibberish language the incursions inflict upon everyone entering an incursioned system, i could be making 100m/hour. or, if i do what i normally do, i.e. market fuckery, i could earn as much as a supercarrier in a day or a week if i'm lucky. in fact, i just did.now, tell me why i should leave that if i'm not in the game for the shooty style of pvp."
"and another thing:i don't think anyone is locked out of incursions and i think we all get paid the same but maybe i missed something?i believe it's not the npcs that are more dangerous, it's the human gankers.basically people are asking for ganker welfare. \"i chose to live in a place that by it's very nature will be much more dangerous and much less profitable than other places i could have chosen to live and i want someone else to make up the shortfall for my poor judgement.\" sam kinnison might have said,\"we wouldn't have to worry about null-sec profit if you would just move where the isk is!!! this is ******* null-sec!!! nothing grows out here!!! nothings going to grow out here!!! you don't need food! you need indy ships and luggage so you can move where the isk is!!!\"...on the other hand if the isk in null-sec is okay then people should quit worrying about the understandably higher profit margins of an area they chose not to live in and move on.here, read this again, it hasn't changed:what on earth makes people think that overall null-sec would ever have a lower risk/reward ratio than high-sec?the reason for the existence of null-sec is to have an area with a more hardscrabble existence and a much greater risk than one finds in high-sec on the one hand but the possibility of building your very own empire on the other. you aren't entitled to greater return because you assume greater risk. you are entitled to greater risk, that is all no one in their right mind would ever go to null-sec unless they wanted to live the lifestyle you chose and are now complaining about!if null-sec were anything like real life, lots of people would move out of null-sec and into low-sec and leave the null-secs alone to get bored punching themselves in the face until the null-secs got bored and moved towards null-sec. of course that would mean low-sec would be stretched that much further and so the dominoes fall. on the other hand it could give people a chance to create larger task forces in less time that they could use to raid null-sec.given the current atmosphere in null-sec do you really think you will entice that many on the fence players into null-sec with anything less than absurdly inflated, game breaking payouts? that is almost certainly exactly what they will want to put up with the ganking.you are already asking for the same thing yourself. you are basically asking for extra $5/day because you chose to live next door to the bully who steals your lunch money but even though you can move away any time you want to you don't!..."
"well, i always like to see more player-player interaction in the world of eve and i like the industrial part of the game, so i have the following ideas, that could also work in lowsec and 0.0. i will only writhe down the basics of the ideas:1. real estateatm every empire station has a mixed slotlayout with a static number of me-,pe- and copy research slots and manufactory slots.what if players could buy half of them and change them, based on deployable equipment? only half of them to prevent the players from abusing the system.for example you buy a pe-scince slot at jita 4-4 and a \"caldari frigatte manufactory equipment\", now you could change this slot into an manufactory slot, that gives build time boni to caldari frigs.to maintain them, you have to pay a monthly land tax, maybe they could need materials to run like posfuel and maybe they generate a mission from time to time, that they are brocken and need some pi mats or so to get repaired. during this time all jops are paused. if the mission fails after 2-4 weeks, the npcs buy back the slot, cause of the player violating the contract or something, repairs it and relists them for sale. so you don't have slots sitting at inactive people.in lowsec/0.0 , forbidden manufactory equipment could be used, that gives better boni to production times (no me improvments, to prevent hat they become mandatory for everybody to be able to compete (like production efficency to 5 nowadays). something like the \"sansha cruiser manufactory unit\", that gives pe boni to caldari, amarr and sansha cruisers.in sov 0.0, the land tax will be given to the owner of the outpost.to prevent that every slot is sold the first day, i would like to see that only slots in former incursion constelations are bing sold publicy via auction. this will also have a nice rp in the sense that npc corps leave, cause of missing workers or so.the same can be done for offices, but maybe as part of future wis developments.to prevent that people go crazy over searching the right slots, there should be some new buttons in the production ui like \"find fastest slot\", \"find cheapest slot\" and \"find next available slot\". the last one would be nice anyway.2.minionsin short, they are like shipcrews, but for industrie.we already have npc scientists / technicans and others as \"tradegoods\". let us use them as our teams, that do our scince and industrie jobs.they will modify production time of items or research time of me research.we have the standart type, that can do everything and gives a bonus of maybe 2-5%, then we have race specific teams, that give 5-10% to every job with there race objects and then we could have special teams for specific areas (frigatt construction, hybrid weapons and so on), that give a 10-20% boni.they will cost monthly wages, if they work or not, so managing them is crucial.another idea would be \"superminions\", special npc teams, that give maybe +20% in two workfields or maybe +30%, but cost more wages and can only be found in space (loot) or maybe traded for lp in the shops.the other minions could be bought and sold directly from npcs, maybe created from basic \"civilian\" npcs at a \"pos recruitment camp\" or maybe later in colonies on planets.3.licensesatm we have a small item in the lp stores called \"empire starbase charters\", that allow us to run a pos in highsec.what if your corp could buy a license to online \"complex reactors\" in 0.4 systems or higher, moonharvesters in highsec maybe or a pos in a 0.9 system. those will have a monthly cost associated.maybe you could buy a license to build an outpost in highsec?4.corpstandingatm corpstanding from your corp towards npc corps is calculated as the average of every member of your corp, who has standing towards them. practically this means, if you bring a new player to work for a corporation, your corpstanding towards them will drop, until the new player is near the old average value.i would like to see, that corps behave like players here and get a \"static\" amount of standing every time a corpmember finishs a mission or so. to prevent that massive corps of 100 or more players gain standings to fast the formula should look like that:corporate standing gain = basic gain value of this mission/ (corporate member count/2)with this, the one man corpcreator with standing for empire pos is stil a valid job, but now they have to do something other than a storyline mission and waiting 14 days.to make the transition less painfull, the actuall average value will become the new \"static\" value.5.corporate missionsjust big missions for whole corps, fighting and industrial.6.viceroysit's an old idea in eve, many things have been written down already so i will make it short.corporations/players that can gain a position in a npc empire and manage lowsec or maybe 0.5 to 0.7 starsystems, with changing basic tax values (market fees, broker tax, pi export/import), giving away licenses, calling npc corps so that they maybe place agents in the system, upgrading the gateguns and so on."
"a nice thread, so i wanted to drop some suggestions...manufacturingthe mechanics are a little boring at the moment and there's no real way for someone to set themselves apart from someone else.i propose that we change how factory and laboratory slots in stations work. specifically that players must have a minimum reputation to use slots, e.g. using a factory in a 1.0 system takes a very high standing. this gives empire corporations the goal of focusing in certain areas where they have facilities available. players would also be able to use slots of their corporation (such as npc corps).this would benefit new players who would find factories available for them suddenly and encourage more players to consider pos, which is another (mostly) fun mechanic to become involved in."
"iv posted something about this before, as far as high sec goes i would like to see some changes made to the bounty system and kill rights. my idea is rather then lock the kill rights to the played that was shot down. instead make them either claimable when its over for a time frame. (time frame tbd). or they can put them up for sale. either by a market sections or another pilot who has chosen to trade in kill rights. i personally like the idea of something like the real world bondsman but with an eve twist for a career. this pilot could either track them down for the bounty and loot. or sell the rights to players who want to fight. for a price of course. or possibly the \"trader\" pilot could destroy the kill right contract for a certain isk amount from the pilots who's name is on the kill contract. having kill rights be tradable to those that want to fight in high sec wil spice things up. it will also give the people that cry its unfair something to chew on. i myself like the idea of not knowing who is after me for a legal reason in high sec.just some thoughts.tre"
"off topic and spam posts removed. please stay on topic.thank you for all the constructive and interesting ideas so far!"
"why not make ships, modules, etc show who made it? i'd feel a touch of pride if i flew a ship or used a module which said \"made in bat country by lord zim\"."
"wasn't this the original idea behind t3 ships before they became another solo gank platform? people would be able to tweak stats slightly like a remap. find a good set of tweaks and people would go out of their way to track down a yeep pattern brutix."
"i don't know about that, i meant more like an actual property attached to the hull or module, which you could see when looking at the description, attributes or somesuch."
"first thing comes into my mind is mining. though i am no longer mining i started out with it and there would be alot of opportunities to make it more interesting.i am a noob on rl minerals but i never have seen rocks which contain only one type of ore. 1. use rocks which contain more then one type of ore (be it in a layered fashion where on the outside there is veldspar, then scordite, plag, pyrox, omber etc. you can do this all the way down to arkonor cause the amount would be very small like 10 units per roid or even belt )2. those roids would be much bigger in order to work3. when you break through the first layer you would get a warning that you are changing to a different type of ore and if you would want to recalibrate your lasers to it. if you dont you get only like 5-10% of the ore out of it as a \"side-product\"4. depending on how good your skills are the better the amounts are youre getting out of a layer5. in 1.0-0.9 you get only 2 layers, in 0.8-0.7 you get all the current high sec ore but in less amounts, 0.6-0.5 you get all the ores from the empire but in lesser amounts (one more thing in #7) nothing which is worth much, but which makes the whole belt more colorfull.6. rats in belts are escalating up to like 2 cruisers and 1 bs in high sec. when you dont kill the rats after 10 minutes they get help from 1 cruiser, then after 20 minutes a 2nd cruiser, after 30 minutes the 2 cruisers and 3 frigs get one bs more. no more afk'ing mining. 7. make less static belts but more belts from missions. say a mission gets random ore. when the mission is completed, the belt in there can be scanned down easily (so should be blue'd wrecks). those mission belts should work like the current high-low-null sec ore distribution. so a mission belt from a lvl 4 mission in 0.5 could contain even a small amount of arkonor. as i have said not much - say like 5-20 units. but this belt would be as colorful as it could get containing all possible ores in smaller amounts.8. not re-calibrating resulting in mining ore in a new worse quality like instead of \"dense veldspar\" it would be \"rusty veldspar\" which would have -90% value of normal veldspar. main idea is to utilize the mining skills better, make it more colorful, more engaging (more rats, heavier rats, called to action for re-calibrating mining lasers). on the whole the value of a belt / belts in a system could stay around as they are. just with more items. coming from mining into securityi admit it i dont like ganking much, but only for the reason that it is cheap fun. the game mechanic itself is totally ok to me. but one should pay an adequate price for it. i dont mean insurances. that is to less of an adquate price. i say its the effort behind it which makes it truly adequate.say a beginner miner, who does play like 5 hrs a week needs 2 month to pay for a hulk. the time effort behind it should be mirrored for the ganker. let the security drop below -10 and let this status be fatal. 6 examples:1. ganking a t1 frig cost you the usual security drop. for a +5 sec status player more. say a frig is -1, with victim at +5 sec it cost you -5.2. ganking a retriever its -2 - with +5 sec status it would be -103. ganking a hulk its base of -2. as it is tech 2 it will be doubled so -4, as it is tier 3 its -7 total. at +5 sec status from the victim it be -35 sec status total4. ganking an orca. its a captial industrial its base is -20. at +5 sec it would be -100 standing loss. 5. ganking a freighter. same as the orca.6. ganking a bs would be -5 / tech2 or faction would be -15. at +5 this would result in either -25 or -75 sec standing loss.now the idea behind is, that for a heavy gank like for a freighter you get the maximum standing loss and you need alot of time to get the standing back. in order that you cant avoid the sec drop results all capsules with less then -10 standing would be shot as well from concord. no waiting orca in high sec to drop ganking ships for those sec standings. ganking is ok, but not the laughable small time to recover from the sec drop. if you do a big robbery in rl you cant expect to be back in the laws good books after 2 weeks, cant you?for a freighter gank you will have to live for average 2 month in low sec (where gate guns dont shoot anymore). positive side effect - low sec would get more populated. salvager careermake blue wrecks be scannable very easy (like on the first scan run at 32 au).also when a mission is turned it and the wrecks arent made blue - make them blue after 1 hr. (people might still want to salvage them after turning it in). scanning careerone starts with static 1/10 plexes maybe, then wants to get into scanning. but those static plexes are camped all day. therefore no further key drop until a player has left the final pocket. no respawn in there. rat escalation 5 minutes after the final item was taken or destroyed. other then that make more and different scanning sites. find industrial sites where you maybe find some t2 components like 50 nanotransistors or 500 crystalline carbonide, find small gas clouds (same as mining - not too much value maybe like a small belt). thats it for now. i know especially the sec standing idea will cause outrage among the pirate but hey its only fair that one has the same effort as the opposite player."
"a simple poll:high-seccers who are on the fence about relocating to low-sec and null-sec: what factor or factors are keeping you out of low-sec or null-sec?the primary reasons seem to lie somewhere between pvp ganking and profits therefore,please answer:gankingorprofits or both (in the case of both please state which is more important)or other (please include that reason or reasons)or any other combination that gets your message acrossex. both (profits are more important)trolling will be ignored and logging on with alts to skew numbers will serve no purpose."
"numbers will be tallied here."
"there are a couple reasons i don't spend more time in low/null. the primary one is that i like to be able to afk for a while to run around and do stuff irl without worrying about my ship. i've spent a while in whs but i always get bored because there's nothing i can do semi-afk other than just floating in my bubble. and i haven't moved out to sov 0.0 again (i tried it for a while) because your options are either to join a massive alliance, become a renter, or get kicked out when your neighbors get bored."
"your original suggestion is a false dichotomy. any attempt to measure responses along that scale is doomed to fail since the scale itself is flawed. here are some other reasons for not taking the first train out to null sec: lack of autonomy having to deal with obnoxious mouth breathers who think that eve is about choices between x or y time demands of living in nullsec to an industrialist, a nullsec experience that makes sense is having a bunch of military types defending the realm while the industrialist busily constructs the infrastructure and war machines required for that defence. to an industrialist, getting in a spaceship and shooting stuff is the least constructive use of their time.to a nullsec warlord, a nullsec experience that makes sense is having a vast supply of war machines magiked out of the ether, with which their minions can go forth and brutally slay the minion of the other null sec warlord. industry is only an afterthought, a thorn in their side so to speak."
"i think the real game is in low-sec and that is what ccp needs to concentrate on for the foreseeable future as that is where the pve and pvp populations meet. you want to entice people? entice high-sec and null-sec into low-sec. make that arena fun for all groups.more carebears will fight and droogs will still be allowed to run somewhat amok. fewer people will stay in high-sec and the trickle down to null-sec will happen on it's own.everybody wins something. (high, low and null) concentrate on giving to the player base you want to get and maintain, and making the game fun at all levels for everyone from high-sec to null-sec but make logical changes, not just react to the same tired conversation where people want to take things from one group to give to another based on the much abused premises of \"balance\" and \"fairness\" especially in a game that prides itself in a certain level of \"reality.\" (ex. stop trying to make excuses for taking money out of the pockets of high-seccers when it is really just a punishment tax for choosing their lifestyle or putting money in the pockets of null-seccers as a reward for choosing theirs.)i am not saying don't make adjustments just don't make them on self-serving emotional premises and don't make them based on the wishes of droogs who have an agenda that includes making other peoples play time maliciously and deliberately not fun.while they both need tweaking, overall high-sec can mostly fend for itself and null-sec is 100% a lifestyle choice.make low-sec the las vegas of eve.simple question for anyone on the fence about taking the plunge into less safe waters:would you prefer \"pirates of the caribbean\" in space? (low-sec)orwould you prefer \" a clockwork orange\" in space? (null-sec)edit: added \"(high, low and null)\" to make \"everybody\" more granular for anyone who may misunderstand the implications of \"everybody\" as the first person to reply to this post likely would have had he taken the time to actually read it in the first place."
"stopped right there...obviously another \"give everything to what i do since thats all that matters\" thread. if you want to make a suggestion or two on how to improve lowsec then fine...but don't expect anybody to be on board with ccp diverting all attention to any specific region or section of eve."
"edited:being this response was based on not reading my post in the first place it merits zero consideration.not wasting much space on it."
"you can make people go to lulzsec by making it into something other than lulzsec...1) make it safer than highsec - sov null tucked deep within the blue ass of large alliances, where you don't see hostiles for months on end.2) make it into highsec - every grey apoc around the corner can possibly gank you, but only if you're carrying something worthwhile."
"lowsec will never be anything because of yarrtards. why kill that rifter? because there is no penalty.. but now that person will never want to go back to lolsec.lets say a mission corp moved to lolsec.the local pirates let them be ( gasp)a month later that mission corp puts all its loot in a freighter and decides to take it to jitathis is when the pirates strike, not vs the drake, but the freighter with loot.too bad this won't happen, because yarrtards have to kill every shuttle that flys by."
"i would have liked to see some kind of suggestion for improvement rather than just ordering ccp to make it better. i think a major issue facing the lack of interest in lo-sec is two-faced. the benefit of operating in low security space is access to more valuable resources, such as some rare ores and moon harvesting. this is a similar model to wormhole space and null security space. risks are higher, but the rewards are theoretically justifiable to the loss incurred in combat against strong npc opponents and pvp. the problem with this model is that while sleepers and loot from wormhole space are significantly improved over null-sec or hi-sec, the added resource value of moving into lo-sec from hi-sec is negligible when compared to the risks faced with doing so. the risks are basically no greater than joining an alliance or corp in null sec and operating there. if lo-sec is going to see an increase in usage, something needs to make it worth while to spending time there. i think removing ice from hi-sec will be a good way to increase pilots utilizing low security space. perhaps there are other incentives?"
"yes lets post about the way certain faggots like to play the game, and of course do not **** with the way i play mine."
"to join the general 'how i like to play' i would like to be able to rent a system from the factions, pop in a station, drop a few pos's on the moons, stick some custom houses on the planets and do my care bear thing.for the rent i'd like some faction police about, with options for pirates (and that's pvp players) to evade them, but make it hard and allow me to build up the gate defences. also would need minimum faction standing of say sec status +5 to rent.maybe even increase sec status if numbers grow and peace becomes the norm in a system, but that needs space to grow with new systems in null as well. not to happen in faction war areas though where while that needs work, should be for the militias to fight it out.yes i'll need to run the gauntlet moving my goods, yes i won't be as safe as hi sec, yes at first i'll be raising a big kick me sign for all local roaming gangs. but so what, it would be fun and give me a path to null"
"no they meet each other in high sec. and they trade there. eve is not about how you want to play it. the majority of the players lives in highsec. so if ccp wants to cater for its clients, then they should not focus on lowsec."
"can a suggestion be given to ccp what exactly to do.you want to draw more people in lowsec, what you propose ccp do to do that?the argument why it would be important is here, and along with what (may) happen. but no in-between on how it will happen."
"what i dont understand ,apart from this is very uneve like, is that why it has to be matar only?? come on everybody can fiqure it out that it is only good for the rapier with its arties, even if something like would make it into eve , it should be balanced across all races"
":words:with a skill like a very powerful sniper shot, you'll just have 10 people in recons one shotting battleships. i think ccp is trying to go away from that direction and get skill involved in playing."
"alright lets shoot in the dark here.new skill: the prerequistes are chosen becuase thay make sense and that they also are some of the prerequisites for the recon skill and covert ops cloaking device.i feel that 5 seconds is more than enough time to do what you need to do. i think the decloak timer starts when you begin targeting the ship rather than after the target is confirmed locked so that this isn't overly abused to gank frigates, and so that smart pilots can still excape with some quick thinking.mmos come and go, but eve remains. -garresh-"
"well...no, because the skill itself would forbid it. cannot shoot a target thats has been shot at recently or is being shot at. so of those 10 people, only 1 would get the shot in."
"in reguards to the original post i will say that there are way to many changes and rules. simplistic solutions are the best kind.truth of the matter is that high damage low hp ships exhist in eve in the form of stealth bombers and the upcoming tier 3 bc's. the role is already filled and there is no need for something as complicated as you original post to let recons do what bombers do already. if you don't believe me look at all the havoc a single bomb can wreck on a gate camp.recons are amazing ships and there capabilities are really amazing as it stands already. they are primarily an ewar (electronic warfare) ship class, and they need to stay in that role to avoid being overpowered. adding this type of ability and making it recon only really is a good way to alienate most of your potential supporters.i have outlined a good solution and tried to make it as simple as possible while still trying to achieve the result you desire. this ability as it stands (even the way that i have presented it) would make lowsec recons only. there is no need for excessive damage output from a highly effective ewar platform.if you need dps bring bombers, if you need ewar bring recons, if you need versitility bring t3's, and if you need manueverability set up a blops fleet. these are the basic standards for covops warfare and they work amazingly well (save for the blops, i would much rather have a t2 orca/mini-carrier as the portal platform). more options would be nice but they aren't required and would need to be balanced.tl;dr ops idea is bad, not supported.mmos come and go, but eve remains. -garresh-"
"another point, while being able to be self sufficient in resources doesn't mean that trade still won't happen either way. as it stands i live in a nullsec region with very limited market supplies of planetary pos fuel, null is ideal to produce it but laziness takes hold and it still is imported. same can be said of any other commodity or resource, risk vs reward is one factor driving what a player does another is effort and laziness.and if a region is better for producing a product then min maxers might be focused on just getting what is most able to be had. getting oxygen isotopes or serpenties in gallente space even if already have plenty of both for not personal use but exporting.by having self sufficiency be possible (as it isn't right now) people running a player empire would be more able to do it to whatever level they felt."
"highsec should be self sufficient. move moon goo, deadspace/officer mods to highsec."
"i agree with anything but key components used for tech 2i am not completely opposed to faction or officers existing in highsec, but still more rare then lowsec, and moreso nullsec.one in 100 missions has a faction spawn? one in 1000-10000 a officer?"
"if hisec doesn't get everything, it wouldn't be self-sufficient would it?the very premise of \"self sufficient null sec\" is anathema to the design of the game: eve online is a pvp mmo. with self-sufficiency, what is the driver for conflict?to make null sec more attractive, the design of the game should be skewed the other direction: each region, in fact each constellation, should become more specialised in what resources are available for exploitation. if a system has rich moons, it shouldn't also have rich planets. if a system has many moons it shouldn't also have plentiful asteroids. the distribution of ore by security status should be tightened up, so that some resources are only available in low sec, others are exclusively available in null sec, and even then, some regions of null sec should be richer in a, others in b, others in c. even within the regions, the balance of ore distribution should be uneven.inequality of resources, choke points in logistics routes: there are many options for incorporating more conflict drivers into the game. making all null sec homogenous will reduce conflict drivers. why would i want to invade your space if we both have the same resources? the only driver will be the simple desire to blow stuff up. many players are driven by economics, others are driven by industry. only some players are driven by nihilism.a \"self sufficient\" null sec will lead even the nihilistic players to calmer lives. that is not good for a pvp game."
"very well said. making each little empire in nullsec able to completely shut itself off from the rest of the galaxy and just do its own thing doesn't exactly lend itself to an interesting and compelling game experience. if every region were able to shut itself in and be self-sufficient, where's the impetus to expand? where's the need for trade? just because the nullsec guys don't want to come back to highsec doesn't mean they shouldn't.i think it's time we change the way we look at the eve universe. when you live on the frontier, you have to go into town to get stuff from time to time. that's what the empires are: the island of civilization in the middle of a vast untamed wilderness."
"no part of eve should be independent, they should all have to interact at a reasonable level.possibly some balancing should be in order, more isk avalable in lowsec, more risk in hisec (tempered by making suiciding less prolific, the risk should be real pvp not getting ganked by 10 fully insured ravens), nullsec should have things that only work for small gangs, basically a balancing of stuff.but, no, no where in new eden should be self sufficient."
"i have not read your intire post but i share u my vision about what is flawed and need to be improved.lets talk about the supply demand fist of the resources that are availeble first. in the current situation there is not enough supply to even start producing stuff in 0.0. the small supply that there is is heavy<U+FFFD>d marked up and ppl dont bother to pay 25% + prices on what it normaly in empire cost. its cheaper to ship down. if u lthink of what is the best option to get self sufficiant the only way for an alliance is to get enough industialist to work togheter or get a industrial corp in alliance that get supplies, manufacture and sell them. by getting supplies i mean mine moon, do reaction, mine ore and ice. react pi and invent all t2 stuff neded for pvp. this is a hugh task. example. a few examples. to build a avarage pvp<U+FFFD>rs loss in a month form scratch your looking at 7 t2 ships minimum (there are hundereds of ppl in 1 allaince). next to that all the cta replacements. lets take a realistic example of cta replacements. a hellcat (armageddon t2 fit rigged). per fight an avarage of 30 ships dies. for -a- there are fights atleast once every 2 days minimum. thats 15 x 30 - 450 t1 battleships. u need a army of miners to mine the trit alone every month. for that u need 900 t2 heat sinks 900 trackign enhancers 450 mwd<U+FFFD>s ect. its hugh too hugh for non organized industrialist to take on. the point of the story is that the quantities and the versitility of the ships blown up on 0.0 is too big to let 0.0 suppy 0.0 people. but!.. its all about isk isk isk. mark up in 0.0 is a common thing. 20-30-40 even 50% mark ups are not uncommon. a mark up is a extra price ontop of jita or high sec cost. why bother building stuff if u can just simply buy it in high sec ship down and mark up by 30%? the profit u gained from producing it localy may be close to jiat cost, maybe a few % below. why not buy in high sec and take that profit multiple times by corurier it down with a jf once or twice a month with 6 jf trips. the only solution i forsee 0.0 becomming selfsufficiant is by making it cheaper or easier to get supplies here and manufacture it here. it must become more profitable to mine, harvest, react, build stuff in 0.0. only solution is by making 0.0 a direct compeditor of high sec supplying and industry business. the biggest problem in that wya is that 0.0 is lawless and has more danger. the second downfall is accesibility of systems. in other words, travel and station systems are more dangerous and risky / not always accesable. to make nullsec better sufficiant supply side must be better rewarding and station should give better bonus to manufacturing and refining. make industry cheaper in 0.0. combines with trasport cost it will level out and it attracts more ppl that switch over to pvp and stick to the game. its win win situation,"
"high should have moon goo, makes sense, itshould be less or taxed based on standing with the faction's space your in...officer deadspace should spawn in highsec also, but very rare.low should have higher chance, and null the best chance.everything should be self sufficient, but null should have more then low should have more then high."
"moon goo in wormholes? sweet!wait, *everyone* should be able to be self-sufficient, right?"
"the lack of slots, or proper refining or manufacturing in stations. basically makes industry in nullsec 3/4ths importing things. being that items (and some ships) are a more compact version then the minerals use to make them, it saves space to ship items in the first place used and don't bring in minerals. it is possible to make isk by moving items to null (i think i have done it alot still do it, i got billions on the markets). but still its a nuisance that manufacturing the needs for a alliance is impossible for all but the smallest. (i think mittani said something along the lines of vfk manufacturing all ammo for a week would just permit 15 mins of shooting for a alpha fleet, that don't use much ammo to begin with). the issue is the lack of able to being self sufficient and running a independent space empire without npc stations, not a lack of ways of making pure isk. this about something more then just having isk, something greater. sure everyone can just keep supplying alliances by the olny practical means currently which is using allot of resources accumulated and produced in empire in jita (aid of npc stations) and moving that by jump freighters, but that seems kind of hollow to having a player driven space empires."
"i suggested differences in resources the majority being one racial or faction type but the possibility of getting others. and nullsec doesn't need to be homogenous. number of belts can be different, and sec status can be different, (along with static ice belt). how exactly the fact that only south east space has angles spawns drive conflict in the galatic north with serpties and guristas, or that serpenties have oxygen isotopes?being able to be self sufficient in powering capitals and towers doesn't mean fighting wont take place, you have neighbors sole hostile some not. also people may eye your space, or you may eye another. a person will always want more resources, for more things. it also means that to get resources needed for a player driven space empire you get more of it from nullsec. the current nullsec game is just getting loads of isk, high ends and moongoo in null then using that to buy supply's in empire of all things not in your region, in other words jump freighters and jita. conflict will always exist, a alliance holding half a region will be richer if they hold a whole one. or multiple ones. major power blocks have long standing feuds and grudges with rivals. not even desiring space they will still deny it to others out of spite, raids occur just to blow up ships causing loss of isk, for no reason other then inflicting suffering with no long term strategy.the current game doesn't encourage any kind of independent living frontier (though the stations are crap tbh), its just encourages people to go for min maxing of getting rare resources, and industry being shopping in jita and freighting it up. how is that, and people using slots in npc stations which are not crap compared to player stations, and geting things only npcs produce in npc stations enhancing your game experience? if i shop for a skillbook, or check a research agent every so many years, what does that do for you? are you happy?though thinking about it revising moons though, may not be good because due to limited supply of products only one market can be supported in jita anyway, and might not really make manufacturing tech 2 in null desirable, so scratch that."
"eve, easy mode."
"because tediously adding contacts is hard and requires skill."
"i would personally love this, but at the same time as another has mentioned would make this intel tool far too easy. being a smart intel gatherer should have it's hard work be a benefit. i do agree though, that a corpmate should be able to share his/her list corp wide to eliminate tedious repetiveness throughout the corp. in short, people should be required to do their homework to create an intel list, but the entire corp shouldn't have to repeat it."
"lol yea no ****.eve easy mode?more like eve boring mode.i fully endorse this idea."
"this does not fix the problem.stupidly rich alliances and people own them. if super caps take as much fuel as a pos, or ten to function in all ways. that would be considered acceptable loss along with risk losing a 15-50 billion isk ship for pvp.also being generally alliance asset (more so the regular caps), one person can always check up on it, and people who have them generally play the game to the extreme anyway.this gives a added cost to using them for just functioning and drives pos fuel consumption, other then that, nothing."
"leave supers alone hobo.if there's one thing i hate more than goons.... its csm goons with a bias against supers."
"hey folksi'm bringing this up, because its very anoying, that you can't change your clone and his implants in wh space. i have one booster char, and it would be nice to use it for shield and mining boost as well. you can do that, but you have to choose 1 imp before move in.i live in a c5, so if i wanted to change the clone, i have to scan my way out thorugh several whs into hs, make the jump and move all the way back...so my idea is that:a clone jump \"light\". you have a ship or pos module, only use- or anchorable in wh 0.0. maybe somewhere else, but it dusturbs the peace of balance, so i leave it with wh space for now.you can clonejump only in the same wh system, the module/ship is in. you can't jump from other space/wh or whatever. so if you get podded in wh you still screwed and have to fly all the way back in. time between the jumps, i dont know 12 hours or so.it would let you be a little more flexible with implants, but not to overpowered i think."
"not a flame, but a firm no. you live ina wormhole by choice, you get the enormous isk that whs generate so you have to have the uncomfortable nature of wh living. sorry but no i cant agree to this."
"nice proposal. well balanced, doesn't overpower anything. the only thing i'd wonder about is what requirements you'd have to meet to be able to clone jump... but being in wormholes it would be silly to tie it to a sec status for any faction... probably restrict to the corp that anchored it and require biology v or something akin to that.good proposal."
"i'd say it should be simpler: you go to the pos mod, it makes a new jump clone and stores your existing one. this lets you pull a blank clone for pvp and store your clone with implants that you use for pvp. to retrieve your original clone, the one you're in has to be destroyed. the major risk would be that if a major attack came and your corp pulled blank clones and then lost badly, you could find yourselves watching all your expensive clones go up with the pos. so there's some balance and inherent risk.i'm not sure this would have much impact one way or the other and i'm not really endorsing it. just saying it has potential to be balanced and not upset wormhole mechanics."
"i dont have a problem with them, but i'd make these changes1. the pos module for this should cost fuel to use each time you jc2. can only have 1 mod per pos and takes a large pos to use3. can only be used once every 48 hours (reduced with skills?)other than that, i dont have a problem with this idea."
"no.primarily for the reason (and yes its a double edged sword) the lack of jc's is the main offense/defense/denial strat when it comes to assualting an whs system.granted i'm sure there are numerious arguments...but i'm fully perpaired to deal with the lack of such a feature based on the uniquely tough nature of whs living.in short....getting podded in whs is a guarnteed way to getting evicted for all intents and purposes...unless your smart enough to keep a back door open.jc would elimiante that need rather easily if not make it easier.although i do like some of proposed modifications to this proopsal...but honestly...not needed.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i think in the op he said that if you get podded, you get kicked out like normal. his idea is that if you have a mining clone and a combat clone, you can jump in one for whatever specialized task you have in the wh. but if you get podded while mining, you would still be kicked out of the wh like normal."
"bumpity bump. we need carbon sounds"
"faction navies are easily tankable anyway."
"the only way i would really support highsec fw is if you were able to flip sov in high sec and physically move the lowsec around.imagine if idk, nour (system next to tama?) was taken over by gal mil. keep the ratio of high sec to low sec systems the same, so make the gal side low sec system farthest away from the new overtaken system a high sec system. the new recently conquered high sec turns into an unstable low sec area.this seems like it would be fun. just allowing fw to be in high sec is silly. it will just invite more mission bears and station games. and we all know how fun those are."
"hmmm think the only way you could do this is by having total faction war. but i don't think it would be a good idea. no-one likes to be collateral damage in a total war...especially carebears."
"little bumpie...i don't agreewith rumpels words like that... but...broadcast windows needs fixing, like to see who is broadcasting when...and for example whould like to see from were a \"beacon broadcast' comes..."
"the broadcast window does need to be re-evaluated, as in its present state, it is a giant (albeit glorious) steaming pile of ****.bumping as this issue needs more exposure.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"i would really love to be able to take my rorqual into the belts, so the big, important question is \"what would it take for me to do that\"you could give him a big strong tanking ability, that would negate a lot of the smaller threats but wouldn't do much about a t2, bs gang or hot-drop.you could reduce the cost of having it, so it wouldn't sting so much to loose it, but i don't really like that idea, i like the current pricing structure and the benefits from the ship already are pretty cool as it is, giving those benefits away for cheaper seems like a poor solutiongive it a strong offensive capability along with shielding would allow it to take a lot more, but you're still in a situation where your mining gang is crying out for help whilst your rorqual is locked down and in most cases you'd still loose it.random suggestion: give its siege mode a micro-pos shield, significantly less hp than a small pos, but enough to withstand a small gang attack for a while, would require targetted interdiction from a heavy interdictor to lock down, even allow your mining ships to retreat into if attacked (although they'd still probably be safter warping out)"
"a mini-pos shield around a rorqual for the miners to retreat into? that's... quite an awesome idea, and would indeed allow for a rorqual to offer protection to the mining op... but at the same time, it wouldn't present an actual threat to the attacking force, which means that the mining op would still need other ships to defend it from the gang... but those ships would have the time to get there, while the attacking gang is busy shooting down the rorqual's forcefield. i approve; that's probably the best 'belt rorqual' option out there."
"given the recent drama on unbanning kugu dot com, and the reasons brought forth by sreegs (great pr there, really, an asset to ccp) and the final statement by navigator that kugu dot com is not a registered fan site (which, in itself makes you sit and scratch your head wondering what on earth the ccp community team is possibly smoking), here's a fun proposal.a lot of the sites on the \"approved\" fan site list have articles about botting, in essence promote botting and other forms of cheating, yet are still \"approved\" fansites. considering ccp's stand on this matter is apparently \"if you promote eula violations, you're censored\", this should be applied to all sites equally. so a proposal for the csm to take to ccp: revisit all sites on the approved fansite list. see if they still meet whatever terms were there, and if they are found to promote eula violating activities, remove them from this approved fansite list, and censor them on the forums. then repeat this exercise on a monthly basis. if ccp truly wants to be seen as more open and transparent, this would be a good step. from what's been seen so far, ccp talked the talk, but isn't walking the walk - it'd be kind of sad to see hilmar's tear-jerking post be just another piece of pr fluff with no actions to back it up."
"supported."
"supported. half the sites on it are inactive anyway."
"supported. then we can finally get fights in low. oh wait, no we won't."
"how does your idea affect suicide gankers using smart bombs?the ability to suicide a ship in the pursuit of causing death and destruction is integral to the hisec experience. while i would prefer that it was impossible for someone to blow up my exhumer while it was harvesting ice (and i was busy doing dishes or feeding the chooks), i have to accept that it should also be possible for me to blow up someone else's exhumer in order to improve my profits from trading in ice products.in the meantime i feel that some of the \"penalties\" for unsolicited pvp activity in hisec are akin to a slap over the wrist with a wet noodle (not to be confused with his noodly appendage). barges should be buffed a little (they're battlecruiser sized, with less ehp and fitting than a cruiser), concord penalties should be increased, and faction standings should be impacted as well. not enough to deter the random freighter suicide gank, but enough to make life difficult for a handful of dedicated people trying to interdict ice belts in hisec.hisec certainly should not become a pvp-free zone. except for that region of space where my exhumer is harvesting ice for 10 minutes while i'm afk, of course, since on that grid concord should simply explode anyone who has any offensive modules fitted."
"pretty sure this person is trolling, so why would off topic post matter?that was the goal."
"if high sec = 0 pvp = highsec removal l4 missions to low sec = losec <0.3 systems = lowless space = removal gate guns & standing hits >0,3 system = current high sec incl l4 agentsin short i only agree on this if current 1/0.5 system get removal of all ice, only contain pye and trit in belts and only contain no agent above l3 level. current low sec should get devided into systems above 0.3 gettign the current high sec and sysems below 0.3 become law less space with no gate guns and standing hits. a breeding chamber for 0.0 recruits"
"gtfoyou do realize that eve is a pvp centric game?you must be a troll"
"as long as that includes all forms of pvp, then sure. so no engaging in any activity that could be to the disadvantage of another player, including trading resources like minerals, trade goods, ships or modules, and no way to earn convertible isk."
"as a bit of a care bear, no thanks to the idea of making hi sec non-pvp, the risk is what makes it fun.concord buff, not needed.concorded insurance removal, i've always agreed with.buffing hulk etc. maybe, but only to survive a cheap ships alpha strike, no more. but they should be able to gank you on the 2nd shot. a difficult one though so i prefer the concorded insurance to balance losses a bit."
"supported."
"or, alternately, a more skilled mining-gang can already be out in the site when the new player shows up, and offer to hire them (i've experienced this once, back when we hired our first out-siders)."
"pretty good but needs probing.actually to fight botting you'd want these sites to only be probe-able. there are haven / sanctum bots that can use the system scanner. if you are worried about new players there are two things you could do.1. making a probing tutorial mission that comes before the mining tutorial mission. hell you could use that bigass tv in the captains quarters to play that one youtube tutorial video.2. leave belts there but only fill them with veldspar and scordite.i would give them one or two rare ores that do not appear in highsec but not all rare ores that show up in null. people fight for sov out there for a reason.also in lowsec being in a probed site is actually a safety feature. when hostiles warp in they have to actually probe out the grav sites instead of just shotgunning the belts or running a quick system scan and heading to grav sites.people already mine in grav sites out in null. all getting rid of belts would do out here is maybe stop some botters. although i doubt that anyone would want to bot mine belts out in null. i'd be tempted to leave belts in nullsec.i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"rookies are given the astrometrics skill book for free, along with a core probe launcher and a bunch of core probes. probing is no more an obstacle than shooting enemies with non-civilian weapons.using the cq screen to play tutorial videos sounds like an awesome idea! i also like the idea of leaving veldspar in belts (but only veld, since it is the holy ore).leaving the veldspar belts means that roaming gangs have celestial targets to hang out at while waiting for \"good fights\".no mining bots in null"
"bookmarks would negate that. that, or you just put two miners in a belt and make sure only one leaves at a time.that's just laughable. \"i claim this rock in the name of me!\" \"but i claimed it first!\" \"nuh uh!\"seriously, people. think this stuff through before you actually click post.bots can fleet, they just don't because they don't need to. it would be simple to manually put a bot in a fleet, or to automate it joining to an advertised fleet.using an orca is plenty rewarding right now. when i did mining as part of my exploration, i ran two hulks and an orca when i could have run three hulks. why? because it was a lot easier and more productive than three solo hulks."
"it's a smart idea and it makes sense.however that's not the issue. the issue is hundreds of thousands of bookmarks created as a result. back in the day we didn't have a warp to zero on gates option which led to the result of hundreds of thousands of bookmarks created. it created a heavy strain on the server.with ice and asteroid belts having to be scannable instead of seeing it on the overview, the same problem arises. summary of eves last four expansions:"
"so now hail is a dam specific high dps standard range t2 ammo. clearly this is abusive (i say as i train my new blaster toon)...."
"bumping for revival."
"1.0"
"as i posted in the other thread, have aoe on ship death for capitals only as the sub caps don't have the mass to go critical.so in theory, only orca's and freighters would have aoe in hi sec and i think most sensible people will see it getting ready to die and vacate the area if they don't want to go with it.as these ships are effectively defenseless, any splash damage that results in concord intervention will be given to the party(ies) involved in the kill. this might actually be a good thing as it will make suicide gankers think twice about popping a capital near a station or a gate (or maybe not if it's for the lolz) and even people involved in a wardec might think twice too. a further level of protection for capitals in hi sec.for too long the death of a capital ship has been rather weak. it's a capital ship for crying out loud. when one of them goes boom it should be absolutely freakin awesome, not a wimper.i can see a good use for super carriers after the nerf...cyno into the middle of a fleet and your own side shoots it before the bad guys get out the way....true suicide bombers in eve"
"i like the idea of aoe blast damage from ships and structures but it would need to be across all of eve and i can see a real possibility of it feeding the lag monster. the idea that only capital ships have the required mass to go critical and produce aoe damage is a good one and worth looking into."
"1.0"
"this is a tired argument about losing subscriptions for years, because you have non consensual surprise seks, and yet it keeps growing. the reason that we had lost subs as of late is because ccp ****** up an expansion. they addressed the issue, realized they ****** up and now we are moving on."
"if ccp really wants to keep dicks out of starter zones while players learn to play game...a few starter systems should exist for each race that are dead ends (so no traffic to go to other systems), and have all rookie mods seeded for 100 isk each (mods that require no skills but also are very bad versions of tech 1). the same said place also has training agents.and only people who have trial accounts, or ones less then a month old can re-enter the newbie zones. have it be a feature at the gate, you warp to the gate but you can't jump in due to security protocol.this would curtail people breaking the one sacred rule of messing with noobs (harrassment or otherwise) while not having it interferer with too much of game 2-3 systems each race thats 1.0 sec and a dead end no one will notice. they leave its fairgame with whats in rest of highsec, sucide ganks and market games.it will be sort of like current system but one gate in (and the starter system is dead end) and chars a month or older are barred from ever entering it.it kind of breaks the open pvp rule, but ccp is banning chars who do it anyway, so why not just have any oddballs bared from messing with noobs anyway."
"absolutely not.really, that's all that needs to be said."
"stop there, cancel your subscription, and uninstall eve."
"a lot of d!cks responding to your proposal op - but hey, it's eve.this is one you should look at though - this post outlines some pretty good reasons against safe zones."
"i could accept rookie systems being safe zones, for characters less than one month old. after which they must leave and never come back. but anything more and i could not accept it as reasonable."
"more than a month. really. don't get mad hear me out. a buddy of mine had his hi sec hulk ganked a while back. no bigggie right? bought a new one and all is good. but some math (and some beers) later we figured up what that would mean to a new miner (i used his numbers i have mined less than a dozen times). a hulk is about 60 hours play time if a hulk is all you have. and a good bit more if you lost the one you just bought and now you have to earn a new one. in that scenario (first subscription player gets ganked for the bulk of his investment in the game) you are an idiot if you don't rage-quit and find something better to do. now if you are 1/2 a year or so into the game and you get ganked you should be able to deal with it. if you get ninjaed and you don't have logi and an orca to hot swap to pvp you are an idiot. so i would favor a longer safe zone but i would make it time dependent not sec dependent. that actually works. because when it is not being used as a shield for protectionism it is true that eve needs more players and a larger player base. there are systems with a dozen residents out there and to me the intent is a more populous dynamic. selfish ***** that i am i want that and i cannot see a way to achieve it by the current system."
"instead of mining in hulk, mine in covetor. it's insurable. if you lose it, you can replace it for fraction of cost of new hulk. sure, you will be making less money, but you will also be target of lower priority, which means you are less likely to have to reinvest.manage the risk and resources, and find your comfort zone. that's eve."
"why is it that in a bacon sandwich people only see bread and lettuce?the key of what i am saying is that ccp should never do anything that upsets the sandbox and that i want even more freedom than we currently have for the players to shape the sandbox. what i want is that instead of having the security rating of systems fixed by devs, we, the players, have the means to set them through our actions. the reason why ccp has not allowed anything like that before is because it is very likely that as soon as the flood gates open, all 0.0 powers will start a war on empire and grind down the security rating of all empire systems to at least below 0.5. that fact is the bacon in the vegetable sandwich that almost all of you have overlooked.if ccp is seriously considering the introduction of game mechanics to allow for some form of consensual-pvp, if they go down that path, what i want is that they tie it to the security rating of a systems and make that security rating dynamic so that instead of intervening in the sandbox, they actually make it even wilder than it currently is.if an allince, or the whole of 0.0 wants to keep empire with a security rating of 0.0 i want them to be able to do it, and i think it is only fair that it should also be possible for players who want to increase the security rating of systems to have the means to do it. that way the sandbox itself would find its ideal state of equilibrium without ccp putting any artificial pressures on any direction.i don't have the actual figures of subscriptions, only ccp does, but they are the ones hinting that they may have to do something to curb <U+FFFD>surprise but seks<U+FFFD> in highsec. they are the ones who are looking at it from a business perspective and may reach the conclusion that it would pay off trying to appeal to new markets even if that were to upset current players, after all, there are millions of people playing wow and just a few hundred thousand playing eve... this time i am genuinelly concerned about them actually messing with the sandbox."
"you know i am went through this wall of text of a thread and still trying to find your source. please link thread that details this pending change from ccp."
"this.proof or get out @ op.troll senses tingleing.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"+1and if you hold up those god damn tweets as your proof, you should kill yourself. (ingame)"
"what i want to know is wtf gave this guy a thumbs up? summary of eves last four expansions:"
"this one needs removing as well while your busy censoring the assembly hall - my quote is still there along with the asinine failreply.[of a request for change ask: who benefits?]("
"if you really want to improve high sec/ empire space how about a sliding scale of concord reactions that lined up with sec status. null sec alliance members should not have unrestricted access to all areas of high sec this would increase the need for trading hubs in 0.5 and 0.4 systems with shadier merchants. criminals who gank in high sec should have concord consequences that last longer then 15 minutes let's say 7 months in 1.0, six months in 0.9, five months in 0.8, four months in 0.7, & three months in 0.6 null sec alliance members should be allowed diplomatic status with only one empire at a time on the condition that the null sec alliance makes all players that stay in the npc of that empire blue in thier alliance. example goonswarm federation is allowed access to gallente empire space and npc like cas are blue to goons. if the alliance breaks the agreement and shoots npc members they lose the agreement and can not negotiate a new agreement with another empire for 90 days unless they financially restore the losses to the npc member and expel the pilot that broke the agreement.gate camping / station camping should be time restricted hang around a gate longer then 1 minute and each additional minute earns you two minutes of docked time. example spend 16 minutes camping a gate or a station and then get a mandatory 30 minutes in the nearest station transported by autopilot an all the risk that entails.pos need to be upgraded the limitations of the cpu and power grids need to be something that a player can improve upon. allow moon mining in 0.6, 0.5, and 0.4 systems. allow more then one command center per planet per player. allow command centers to be deployed on planets on behalf of corporations and tended to by designated corp members.allow corps to have trade deals with null alliances so they can get null sec items for high sec items. allow high sec corps to use capital ships to defend their pos and customs offices against attack. allow jump bridge connections between null alliances and the high sec corps they have trading deals with. do not allow the capital ships to use jump gates or agress any player in the system where they are defending corp assets unless they are at war. allow jump bridge access between high sec corps and wh corps for the duration of the static wh connection. allow player owned outposts in high sec systems that have no npc station along with all the upgrades possible. the high sec alliance would not get sov rights an any player passing thru could reap the benefits as well.these are just a few of the changes that could greatly improve eve play for high sec careers and smooth the way for more use of low, null, and wormhole space imo."
"more than anything this is why i spend time in highsec. i don't have time to go on 3 hour roams but i enjoy playing eve. i think highsec can be improved a lot by focusing on this fact a little bit and making it easier for instant fun instead of focusing on making more money/getting more assets."
"well, i had a small idea this morning, that could help with this problem.it would be nice if we could ask agents, to get a \"short\", \"medium\" and \"long\" mission, based on the average time they need to complete (a data ccp has). atm it's really random what you get and you cannot reject them infinitely often.so you could log in, look onto a clock and say to yourself you only have 20 min left and start a quick \"short\" mission.if you have a whole evening to fill, you could start a \"long\" one.lp/h and isk/h should be nearly the same for all."
"wow dude, bitter much? from minutes to month(s) long penalties? system supercaps to defend ur highsec assets... you really went all out with your self-serving load of crap, every single bit of it. and i'm a guy who would benefit from your spiel. try to think in terms of everyone's benefit, not just yours."
"bitter no not at all. for the record i am not a super cap pilot and do not have any alts that are so your concept of this being self serving is simply wrong. my thinking was to increase the pvp possibility and to be honest the chance to build and sell super caps in all sec levels of new eden. so you think more pvp is bad if i might have a chance to win the fight right? if we have assets that need to be protected in high sec from war dec why shouldn't we get the same tools to defend our assets as they get in null?i guess fairness which i could possibly benefit from someday when a customs office i pay for is sieged is a load of crap in your estimation. so you think it's legit that a suicide gank that destroys an investment of a billion isk should get the harsh punishment of staying docked for a whole 15 minutes while their friends or more likely alt loot the remains of a care bear mining ship yeah that is of equal value how could i have been so blind!"
"other.null sec in it's current form and status is stagnant. it's owned my a handful of major alliances and it would take a goddamn miracle to unseat them. any new alliance or corp wishing to move into null must join one of these major alliances or pay ridiculous amounts of isk for renting. time and time again i watch and witness attempts to gain footholds only to get steamrolled and kicked back to high sec within days.living in low isn't all that appealing either. security status losses are laughable, so are gate and station guns. the way it's currently set up, it's nothing more than a pirates playground. not a viable nor profitable place for a corp to call home (unless it's a pirate corp). low sec systems with stations are home to pirates. low sec systems with no station need a pos for a corp to use. that's all well and dandy, but those big null sec alliances come rolling in and mow down pos's in low sec just for sport.null and low sec are flawed down to their very core mechanics and it would take some radical changes to get me to live out there.oh, and industry has no place in low and null sec. gathering the resources locally isn't feasible. importing the resources to produce goods locally isn't feasible either due to the limited industry slots available in outposts/stations. my skills are heavily devoted to industry, yet the only thing these alliance leaders want and tolerate is having available grunts to fight on the front lines. that's not where my strengths lie, so my ability to contribute in a way the alliance leaders want is very limited. in short, industrialists simply have no place in null and low sec.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"low sec is full of yarrtardsnullsec is an ocean of blues.. i wouldnt mine joining a nullsec alliance if it didnt have so much drama and **** that i rather stay awaylowsec is more dangerous then nullsec but with less rewards.also, i like how highsec works, every person you see isnt a ganker, so it feels right.the reason low/null is broken isnt gameplay, but the players."
"post this idea in its own thread rather than having people have to look at the random rant thats started this one before finding it. i personally think it s a great idea."
"main problem i've always had with low sec is the security penalty for killing/podding people.why fight in low sec with an automatic penalty if you shoot first when i can go to null and avoid this penalty thus allowing me to wander anywhere i like in eve?easy solution to get more people into low sec is remove this penalty. true you will probably have the hardened null sec pvp'ers breathing down your neck but then you will have lots more people to shoot at."
"null sec is often far away and not connected directly to empire. and most people go to null for the rewards and conquerable things. i don't think they would have too much of a problem.also the pvp environment would be different, no bubbles. can't see anything wrong here, it would offer something different. lowsec is lawless anyway, so why not pvp without limit, no sec hits."
"how clever you want to make low sec into an extension of null sec. how about no sec penalty if the killer stays in that system for say a 30 minute period without docking, cloaking, or passing thru a gate while evading or defeating a roving concord cop investigating/ patrolling the system. if you are clever enough to avoid getting caught by the roving concord cop or tough enough to kill him ( the concord cop should be as tough and as crafty as a sleeper) and brave enough to stay undocked/ uncloaked in the system for 30 minutes you get no penalty to your sec status. add some real risk and reward!"
"your entire op merits zero consideration since you didn't do anything but demand more attention from ccp. you think lowsec needs more attention? tell them why and suggest ideas...don't just come in like a little kid and start making demands with no reason at all."
"not really liking this idea at all. the recons already have a role as previously stated and i don't think allowing them to instapop unsuspecting ships is a great idea. i personally can see this being used to gank haulers/barges as anything smaller will warp off and anything bigger you won't be able to kill. it's a solo sneaky pvp option for gankers. i think they get enough help from the ships and bonuses we already have.not supported."
"yup, that'll do.you might want to startt a new thread for this; i get the impression no-one's reading past the op any more."
"one issue i see with a \"lock someone when cloaked for a sneak attack\" idea is that instead of that, it'll end up being an instant heavy tackle for an incoming gang most of the time, rather than a sneak attack. there's a reason for the targeting delay, i don't think this will actually add anything worthwhile to eve."
"unless you massively redesign the pilgrim, force recons as a class aren't going to be \"sneak attack\" ships. some of them, yes, but not all. so a supervolley as proposed in the op or anything else intended to facilitate quick kills would completely imbalance the ship class, making one of them significantly less useful than the others."
"you are not talking about null being self-sufficient but rather every region .. what would be the bloody point if there is zero incentive to interact other than to form the biggest blob?there should be more and a higher degree of differentiation between areas of space to make active trade a necessity for longterm success and controlling space should involve dramatic increases in maintenance costs so that a lot more ego's are involved in managing it.moons should be removed in their current form and all products added to pi reaction charts with distribution of key elements manually done by ccp in accordance with whatever scheme they see fit to use.it should be possible to steal products from planetary operations to encourage patrolling ones space and protecting ones assets .. ccps grand plan to make tax offices destructible doesn't actually add anything of value to eve other than tedium like all other ehp grinds (yet another fail idea from gotta-have-barbie! devs).production should be boosted and options to specialize individual manufacturing nodes (read: stations) implemented. mineral bottlenecks should be solved by a combination of a revised mining system, introducing denser rocks/comets and allowing for temporary local boosts (for isk) to pe value of prints used.in short: no single entity should be able to be 100% self-sufficient without having to trade, invade or blackmail other entities .. ever. we want strife and thus we need as many points of contacts as possible --> maximize number of ego's and force interaction if they want \"the best\"."
"there are more than enough resources in null sec to produce stuff locally. it's just easier to ship the stuff in from hisec. there are a number of reasons why: nullsec miners don't like \"wasting\" time mining feldspar nullsec miners are far less populous than hisec miners, so they bring in less of anything than can be shipped in from jita there are a limited number of production lines, refineries, and other infrastructure required for efficient industry in null sec social pressure from null sec alliances pushes people away from mining and industry in general some null sec alliances are so ******** that they try doing stupid things like regulating the local market (i.e.: \"you must sell stuff within 10% of jita prices\"), which removes any incentive to mine or manufacture in null sec spot on.the stations don't need to give better bonuses, just have lower losses or running costs. increasing the transport cost will reduce the willingness to import stuff from jita. removing the supply of high-end minerals from drone poo will help significantly too."
"how would self sufficiency encourage blobbing, i would say deficient junk encourages it considering that you would need to be blue to people to trade with them. if one region has oxygen, and other nitrogen, you blue each-other and you got half of the isotopes needed, how is that driving conflict? if super power takes over multi regional areas with different ice and spawns, will that not be blobbing?self sufficiency would involve interacting within your own space with corp mates, alliance and allies to get everything you need. one person finds one resource they sell it with others, actual null sec trade. interregional trading, or trade in the same region in null is non-existant, direct trading between hostiles will never happen (hell neighbors tend to have the same resources as you anyway, is fountain and syndicate going to trade oxygen isotopes and shadow serpenties mods with cloud ring?), everyone brings things to jita. that's not encouraging any sort of dynamic trade its just a market system blob, i don't know what fantasy you or ccp was thinking it is or should be but its all just spamming crap to one central location then shopping like you are in space wallmart.differences should exist in space, like one resource more then another but the current system is total impossibility to be self sufficient, with key ones for fueling certain races capitals and pos's on the other side of the universe. how is that driving conflict?"
"ok it's true, i didn't pay much attention to one of your many, many threads as i would to most posts i usually read.to be honest since you have already compared myself and anyone who lives in null in those threads to crack addicts along with a number of other unsavory epithets i find myself unable to really care enough about your point of view to bother listening anymore."
"the op originally posted a thread asking ccp to focus solely on lowsec...therefor this thread is invalid."
"just like we get in incursions it is possible for a sansha mothership to spawn then i think that it would maybe be a brilliant idea for capital rats to be introduced into the null sec region all the nerf's recently that has happened to null sec this would be a great balance.theese ships would be like a thanatos for serp rats chimera for guristas and so on. or the dreadnoughts. these ships would only be able to spawn in 10/10 complex's or because of the new true sec systems then i think a -1.0 system should have more benefits than a -0.8 or -0.9 witch at this moment in time there is the barely little difference maybe create a new anom for \"capital suggested ships\" such as carriers. this will then bring ratting in carriers back witch will balance null sec because there will be more reason to have a -1.0 system and there will be more risk in ratting with a carrier because theese new anoms will actually test a carrier's tank and not only that pvp fleets or roams could be in for a nice kill. witch means more \"risk = more reward\" if you get me. these capital rats will have like 7 or 8 times the hp of a battle ship and will have around 15 - 25m bounty on them. these ships in a anom shouldn't drop anything special maybe a capital mod at best witch would balance the capital market. but in like a 10/10 complex these were to spawn they could drop like a carrier bpc or fighter bpc's or just some faction / officer mods with making them the \"officer\" / \"overseer\" of that complexthis would take a lot of work to do if they was to bring these rat's into place but with such possible reward it could sort out the problem with the high sp pilot over crowding low as a pirate or over crowding wormhole's. and it will make nullsec alot more interesting as it would actually be worth having or fighting for -1.0 systems rather than settling for a -0.8 or -0.9 please post comments or suggestions thanks"
"it would encourage rating in capitals (and supers), and create more challenge. more investment more rewards.maybe not bpc because its not like bs spawns give those away.ten times the hit points of a bs, ten times the bounty seems fitting rewards (and sporadic cap sized mods, fighters).they don't need faction mods themselves, but can have faction/officer versions that are even harder that drop those.i see whatever farming system having a cyno jammer in it.this idea while cool might have unwanted effects."
"using self destruct to ride the pod express to your med clone allows you to do everything a clone can do except store implants (unless you don't mind destroying them) and suffer through a 24hr delay. using your own corp offices or the corp offices of frog you can travel to any station in the universe in 2 minutes. if you preposition your cache of ships/ammo, you could fight anywhere in the universe, any time you wanted and then hop to the other side of the universe for even more pew pew. so the primary objection in these two quotes is moot; the ability already exists."
"wonder what those little color coded buttons (dark blue to red) when you add a contact are for? empire merc work/ combating mercs is made very difficult by the little things like this. not to mention groups alt rep during aggression (literally anyone in the vicinity can insert themselves into any fight between two other groups at war) and can just dock up with no timer or the fact that the address book is bugged and shows people online that are not. any way we can make the stuff already in-game work first? i think that's all nayrl is saying."
"watchlist != contacts or standing. it's one thing to set standings for someone so you know if they're friend or foe, it's another to watch and see every time they come online or log off."
"interesting comment from a csm. i would like to know honestly what exactly do you hate about them. please be both detailed and specific because i have only read about them and seen one once."
"voting no; wormholes are hard and inconvenient, and there's no reason to let people mess around with jc's there.if you want to bring specialized implants into a wh to help with something, then you put those implants at risk for everything you do there, and if you lose them, or find them inappropriate to the task at hand... tough."
"i was always under the impression that a pos was just a paired down station that you needed to fit all the mods for yourself, so fitting a pos mod that allows a change of jc would be fine based on the op's idea.supported."
"i don't think jump clones are the proper term. more the ability to keep a spare clone on hand that you could, while actually in the pos, swap into in order to get a different set of implants into play. so if you got podded, for example, with all your juicy combat implants they still are lost and you're still in high sec hoping you can get scanned back in."
"right.i have the feeling, if people read the words \"jumpclone\" and \"wormhole\" in one sentence, they go crazy without reading the rest.i dont have any problems that it needs a huge ammount of cpu from the pos tower or some fuel. and i really don't see the problem, that you can change your set of implant in a wh. you can change that in 0.0, low and hs. so where is the problem about whs? you decided to live there, okay. you coudl make big money, ok also. but it is dangerous also, many ppl seem to forget. and believe me, some things are anoying enough every day because of some game mechanics.i think it doesn't disturbs the balance of eve, if some wh inhabitants where a little more free to switch there implants under some restrictons..."
"voting no. all of the inconveniences that make wh life more demanding are the reason why the rewards are so great. chip away at the difficulties and you also chip away at the rewards."
"how many players actually use the already existing sound? i like many don't. it would be interesting to find out if enough do to justify a change if one is needed."
"there's no sound in a vacuum. if anything, the sounds should be internal radio, control, warning, and damage sounds of the ships we're in."
"fw can be played in high sec without worrying about the navies. join fw, go to concord controlled genesis. problem solved. i'm kind of surprised rvb hasn't done this tbh. lol, maybe ccp should put plexes in concord space too."
"while the tone of the op is not to my liking, the issue at hand is an important one. also the issue of the preview button. adding my support that this needs to be fixed."
"the broadcast window does require work."
"thinking about it, you probably don't want the pos bubble effect going off every time the rorqual sieges... it has the potential to be inconvenient to friendlies, after all, and in the event that someone wants to munch on ore inside a pos as is currently normal, you don't want the two systems interfering.accordingly, i'd suggest an expensive script named something like 'defensive matrix reconfiguration', which can be loaded into the industrial core. unlike most scripts, this script would be somewhat bulky and require expensive ingredients to produce. this script would shorten the duration of the siege mode, probably by about half, both doubling fuel consumption over time and making it easier to make a quick getaway if need be. while the core is active under this script, the rorqual would project a small-ish forcefield... no more then 10 km... which would exclude all non-gang members. no passwords, here; just a question of in-fleet or not in-fleet. while the forcefield is up, the rorqual would have capital ship immunity... but not the immunity to remote support, such that it can receive reps, should a friendly support force be deployed to defend it in a pitched fight. obviously, a rorqual with this script loaded can't use it inside or near a real pos.a rorqual with this script active should probably get an arbitrarily huge bonus to shield hp, such that it can actually tank a bs gang for a few minutes (perhaps a quarter as much hp as an unmodded small pos?)... but if the rorqual is reduced to zero shields while this mode is active, the forcefield drops, while leaving the rorqual sieged and helpless for however long is left on it's timer. not sure how to actually implement the change between vulnerable traveling rorqual and protected siege rorqual... requiring a bunch of shield logi on hand anyways to rep the rorqual to maximum shields just because that number's gone up seems wrong, but i don't want to let the rorqual simply cycle it's siege to refill it's hp in the middle of a fight. maybe activating the siege changes the rorqual's max hp, but keeps the same proportional shield strength between modes?as a final note, a rorqual with this script active is still able to target and interact with things outside it's shield, unlike the weak mining ships it is protecting. this allows it to still make use of it's capital tractor beam (items transported this way can pass through the shield without incident)... and probably gives clever rorqual pilots a way of contributing usefully to any battle fought in their own defense."
"want more bang out of the rorqual? allow it to be used in high sec in any system that does not have a npc station. give it a micro force field so it could survive annoyance ganks and suddenly what is now a pos module becomes the center piece of mobile mining operations as it was designed to do. the force field would serve as a 12 hour protection for the mining fleet as well. this is the best option it gives the rorqual a chance to call in combat support which means more pew pew. but all rorqual ganks would be exempt from concord intervention you get a force field and the chance to call for help from your corpies or friends that is all. of course no concord intervention means no sec status loss for the successful ganker."
"sounds like selective censorship to me.regardless, though ccp goes by this excuse, i think they're still butthurt about getting called out which, if true, is rather petty.watch out, the mittani. ccp may just ban you too and censor your name for calling them out on their wrong doings.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"the idea is that even if they have an excuse, this excuse should either be gotten rid of, or applied to all sites regardless of whose it is - otherwise, anyone with 2 braincells can see that ccp as an entity is still severely butthurt about the whole kugu thing. considering that if ccp as an entity has stated they wish to be more open and transparent, the current censorship (there is only *one* site that is actively censored) should either be applied to *all* sites that encourage eula violating activities, or to no sites at all. it's simple really, this is a relatively small thing, that is not putting undue demands on ccp, it's not asking for the moon, the stars, and the answer to life, the universe, and everything. no, it's just asking that a rule that apparently exists be applied equally. if this is something ccp cannot or will not do, then the whole \"oh my we're so incredibly sorry, we'll promise we'll be better\" thing is nothing more than a piece of pr fluff that has been thrown up so the playerbase will shut up for a while. this is ccp's chance to man up and prove beyond a doubt that their statements are true."
"think what the op is getting at is that if ccp allow the 'solo' aspect of ship spinning (very debatable that this can even be considered as an activity as such) he wants ccp to allow more content for solo play to appease a very tiny part of the player base. no doubt i will be corrected if i have this wrong.i will point out that this is a mmo....guess what the mm stands for? give you a hint, solo isn't mentioned anywhere.i have read a number of proposals on the forums of late that seem to indicate that a very small (and vocal) minority don't actually want to play eve at all. they want their solo mining/ship building/ratting empire with no risk or pvp whatsoever. that, my friends, would no longer be eve and you would have solo content as you would be the only one playing it.don't support this proposal at all."
"the incarna release forced us into a single player resource hog that boged down the game.ship spinning redeams it again in allowing something other then a blank image to take the place of captain quarters.i multibox, and my cpu is not a godbox, i can't do captains quarters on each or any account when doing so.whats the problem, they can fix things for a multi player game, till then, ship spin."
"goodness such a big supporter of mm ..... wonder why you are the only ( aka solo ) member of your corp? don't you play well with others? all single member corps should be banned on the basis of not being mm to stay consistent with your theme right?some players of eve are not afraid to venture out into the void alone, while others need the support of numbers to do anything at all. i feel pity for those players like smiling menace who need to be in a gang all the time, safety in numbers right hero?so if i read this correctly when players are doing missions let's say level 1 distribution they are not really playing eve at all because they are 1 player in one ship without the need for other players to do anything but gank them. so you believe all pve that does not take more then one player is not playing eve at all right?maybe ccp should design a class of ship that takes more then one person to operate that way no one would ever not be playing the mm way! they could name it the \"herd class\" so you sheeple would feel safer.don't support those afraid to undock alone at all."
"is it just me, or did this thread get stealth edited. again.:/"
"wow...you paid for 4 subscriptions per month, obviously have plenty of vested time, and what's making you quit is that this site won't allow people to link to another site??i understand people not wanting censorship...but if this is making you that upset...yeah, you should probably quit and do something less stressful."
"+1 please release a better support bra before doing this as i think my shoulders might snap off if this was implemented to and just let the puppies free."
"brarmageddon !!!"
"they should also tweak how the timers work to encourage more pvp. for example in a minor plex:if you start a minor plex you need to run it for 10 minutesif you kick an enemy out of a minor plex or enter a plex they started you need to run it for 8 minutesif you are kicked out of a plex for more than 90 seconds the timer restarts.these are just some ideas. they may not be the best. the intent is to discourage alt plexing and warping out and encourage people to stay and fight for plexes.make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"one thing i'd like to add, i don't think that cloaks should work in either fw plexes or fw missions. cloaks don't work in enemy highsec, it makes no sense they'd work in these either.99% of the people in fw level 4s, in particular, are flying stealth bombers. they enter the mission, cloak, slowboat 100km away from the entrance, and do the mission in complete safety from the other side. also (sorry if this has been mentioned elsewhere), the entry requirements to the sites make no sense. why can a faction frigate like a dramiel or a daredevil enter the small sites, but an af, intereceptor, or eaf can't? that's just crazy, and it means that 90% of the ships (at least the ones i see) used in fw are:stealth bomberdramielhookbillslicerseriously, either ban faction ships or allow t2 variants."
"no, just the pirate faction and t2, leave the navy faction to have entrance (they aren't nearly as powerful). however, if the dessy changes are true this will no longer become and issue."
"i was just thinking they should create a new \"rookie plex\" this would allow only vanilla t1 frigates - no faction frigs, destroyers or t2. then the minor plex would allow everything a minor plex currently allows including destroyers, but also allow interceptors and assault ships. for the minors: i think the destroyers faction frigates and t2 are all fairly well balanced and it would make a nice variety. for the rookie plex: the vannilla t1 frigates are also a very well ballanced group of ships. and understanding how that pool of ships works would be very good for beginners who can be overwhelmed if there are too many types of ships. edit: what are they doing to dessies?make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"this is for the best, you have all my plus ones."
"from what i understand, most miners (bots and otherwise) use bookmarks anyway."
"can a bot do the little probing mini game? that might fix it.also i thought of one more thing, to prevent bookmark botting the new belt replacement grav sites would have to only have a few minerals and respawn somewhere else on depletion. maybe at the rate of 2-3 hours of average highsec belt mining. that way the bookmark would only be worth while for a small amount of time. i have seen the medium and small grav sites out in null last for a day or more.i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"change the game mechanics to make wardec exploits impossible. there are a number of exploits currently possible that are abused on a regular basis which are easy to fix:1.) changing corporations while in space while next to a war target to surprise them, or to get them concorded. fix - while in lowsec/highsec prevent members from joining/leaving a corporation while it's at war if they're in space and a war target is in system.2.) wardecced corporations may join and leave an alliance to escape any wardec. this is commonly used to save reinforced towers without the attackers having any chance. fix - there is much debate how to fix this. possibilities include corporations do not drop wardecs upon leaving alliance. corporations with reinforced towers take longer to drop wardecs. an added delay for corporations to leave their alliance if at war, etc.3.) dec shields (a dec shield is when you have many alt corporations wardec your shielded corp such that any future incoming wardec costs against you will be inflated substantially). these are fine if the incoming wardecs are actually being paid (as then it actually costs isk to maintain, but that's not how they're used. you can toggle a war mutual right before the bill comes and the incoming attacker does not have to pay for that week, and then untoggle mutual to restore the shield. this allows dec shields of infinite size to be maintained for free, while still costing new attacks much money. fix - if a war is set to unmutual then the aggressor has to pay the bill within x time or the war is declared invalid.4.) a corporation that has left an alliance cannot be wardecced until after the next downtime. fix - a corporation that has left an alliance can be wardecced.5.) corporations join an alliance 24.5hrs before their tower comes out of reinforced. alliance fleet surrounds enemy fleet who then instantly becomes valid war targets without any warning. this is a version of #1. fix - when a corporation you're at war with is accepted into an alliance it sends a warning message that the war will carry over to x alliance in 24hrs.these have been known issues for many years and recently 2-5 have been declared legal because they fired a good portion of their gm team and didn't want to regulate them. fixing these issues by changing the game mechanics will eliminate the need for gm intervention and help reduce costs to ccp while restoring some much needed balance to obvious bugs/exploits.i have been offering free wardec removal to any corporation in efforts to bring attention to the situation. there is no reason what i do should be legal.here is a graphical representation of the exploit that is now possible"
"this is currently considered a petitionable exploit.my solution is that wardecs should follow whatever entity they are applied to. if you wardec an alliance, then corps dropping from the alliance can escape the war. if you wardec a corp inside an alliance, that corp can drop from the alliance so that the rest of the alliance gets out of the war. if you dec an independent corp and they join an alliance, the war is extended to alliance members while remaining active on the corp. if the corp drops or is kicked, the dec stays with the corp and the alliance loses the wardec.better fix: a mutual war remains so for a full billing cycle. if you're going to declare mutual, you'd better be ready to commit.seems rather obvious to me.again, this is a petitionable exploit. i got this explanation when i asked a gm about a warning i received shortly after the \"no wardec exploits\" post:\"that is considered an exploit as that gives other players no chance to see if you are an enemy or not. however if you change corps while docked in a station that is not considered an exploit.\"i was told in the same conversation that this rule is a stopgap until the problem is patched."
"other than the obvious.... ccp made their point quite clear....they will no longer consider war dec evasion tactics a punnishable offense.petition if you think its an exploit....otherwise your waisting your breath.your complaining about something your doing?then why continue doing it? this is confusing.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"one of the best ways to bring attention to game-breaking loopholes is to abuse them so badly the developers have to fix it."
"thats like begging to get banned.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i've run into this before; it can stem from reasonable causes (takes too many resources/interferes with other stuff in the pipe) and not-so-reasonable causes (notmyidea=value(0)). not going to speculate which it might be, but it doesn't matter as long as someone can take a look at it.i don't think the system as proposed would eat that many clock resources; the only thing that might be a pain is calculating the mineral index values of all the exploded stuff, but that can be done effectively offline (like recalcs for insurance values, i didn't know about that until recently). hell, you could do it in an excel sheet and import a comma delimited file into the db once a quarter.likewise, there's no need to hammer the server with a payout calc request every time someone goes boom. it can always be delayed like rat bounties.not sure how many more pages could come out of this. there's not a lot of disagreement here, just some concerns over the mechanics involved (details). i haven't run into anyone who thinks the bounty system as-is actually works."
"that's the point and the problem. obviously, those who are in power are not very interested in a working bounty system, nearly everything has a higher priority. the question is, why is this so, who profits from that game mechanic being broken and useless?as i mentioned before, your proposal has charme, because it is simple and seems to be able to do what it is meant to do. it would not be that much investment to design it and to implement it. with this a whole new profession would be introduced to the game, and finally there would be a means to pay back the rampant high-sec killers and the low-sec highwaymen.so, why is there no working bounty system, what is the reason that this is systematically ignored since eve's inception?"
"ok, so having no \"safe zones\" might make sense ...but how would it hurt to add in the ability to play \"pvp missions\" ... i.e.-using force balancing mechanics similar to alliance tourney's and such, you dial in ur agent and select \"1v1, 2v2, 3v3, 5v5\", \"total fleet ship points up to 10 or less\", etc., and both sides can gate into the mission area and have some fun w/o the normal neutral reppers all over the place?ship destruction or not, kill mails or not ... up for debate (maybe let people choose when selecting the mission, and make rewards proportionate - mr. noob is after all going to lose, and lose, and lose, and lose, so might be hard to replace his ship every time, or not, whatever).i think this would make pvp more accessible to newer players ... and provide an alternative to having to play the bad guy (pirate, thief, can flipper) just to get some pvp experience. maybe then they'd be more willing to move to nullsec as the new crop of meatshields, cannon fodder, or gank victims the nullsec folks are looking for."
"ok that's actually kind of a good idea.ok so this would be an addition to or maybe replacement of faction warfare since people rarely do fw as intended anyway.ok so everyone on your side fleets up and one of you picks up the pvp mission. meanwhile other people are fleeting up and picking up the pvp mission in other nearby systems. then the eve servers do a load of math in the background trying to match up opposing fleets based on number of people, character sp, shiptype, etc. then it spawns an arena mission area in a nearby system (with two entry gates, one for each team)now before they get in the arena they are still neuts to one another so if they try to jump one another someone's getting concorded, (unless they meet in lowsec, then all bets are off). next the arena gates only let in the people who signed up for the mission. and if you warp out you can't get back, so no reshipping. also as with all complexes you can't just warp straight to the site, the only way to get in is through the gates.the last fleet left standing, gets a can full of swag, or some lp, or something for their trouble.i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"please let's not have arenas in eve ... it would totally cheapen the rich and dynamic sandbox that has been grown over the last 8 years.<-- sisi test server is that waywow is that way -->"
"and cojones should be that way --vedit: dear god, the censoring is awful."
"sisi does not count ... a) noobs aren't going to be using it; b) it doesn't solve the issue of neutral reppers; c) it doesn't solve the issue of being forced to be \"the bad guy\" in order to partake in pvp (and no, pvp'ing with corp mates doesn't count either).and i'm still waiting to hear ... how exactly does it hurt anything in the game to add this? what would it take away? i know people are afraid of it as they've stated time and again \"oh no, it will kill the sandbox\" .... so, how exactly?currently there is no way to arrange consensual pvp that isn't plagued by neutral reppers, can-buddies hiding around the corner, or that doesn't require using your own corp mates .... non of which is \"real pvp\" anyway."
"first off all those terrible things you listed, are apart of eve. that is what gives the game it's flavor. consensual pvp can happen, as a matter of fact you consent to it when you log in every time.the only issue here is that you have a hard time coping with the way the game is played. flagged pvp is the antithesis to the spirit and foundation of this game. once you start introducing this kind of game play, you start to weaken the foundation and then soon the game will follow suit.tl;dryou don't get eve."
"to have a legitimate concern, all that needs proving is:1) there has been a change of attitude in the part of ccp towards empire dwellers from the good old <U+FFFD>htfu<U+FFFD> to the present day in which war declarations have been watered down to a form of consensual wars since it is now allowed to exploit game mechanics to avoid war decs in addition to the beefing up of concord of recent times.2) subscriptions are in decline/stagnated: quarterly economic newsletter (qen) is no longer going to be released, which was our main source of information regarding the number of subscriptions. still, looking at the last information that we have available in the last qen of 2010 and judging by the events of the first three quarters of 2011, it would be fair to suspect that the number of subscriptions is in decline or at the very least stagnated."
"yes nerf lowsec pirates, they shouldnt be able to dock in most of low sec stations, if they want to dock go 0.0 pirate space"
"are you planning to answer this, or are you content with your thread going down in flames as a troll?"
"baaldor, what did i claim that you demand proof for? would you mind quoting it/them?"
"and there it is."
"i really hate repeating myself. but, for this thread, i'm more than glad to.eve is a pvp game, no matter what aspect of it you play:- mining (competition for belts, better ore, sale of ore/minerals)- manufacturing (competing against other persons on the market for better profit margins)- marketing (competing against other persons for better profit margins, undercutting, buy low/sell high, etc)- combat (blowing **** up that belongs to others, whether or not they want to fight)- scanning (scanning down sites first, running them first, mining them out first)- manufacturing (competition for building materials, offering better rates, researched bps, etc)- whs (see combat/scanning/mining)- null sec (see mining/manufacturing/marketing/combat/scanning)- contracting (aggressively searching contracts to get better deals before others do, sell **** first, or get that high paying courier contract first)- planetary interaction (competing for better planets, and setting up low sec customs officers before others do)what it all comes back to, is eve, by nature, is a pvp game. even the developers hold to this, and the fact that non-consentual pvp is an intended design feature.if you can't handle the above, the following actions will help you:- give me all of your stuff- find another mmo better suited toward your play style- make sure that you have given me all of your stuff- biomassi am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"wtfbbqpwn senses tingleing....that or the op just got thread ganked. :)================ stop the evemail spam!"
"you are right, i cannot back that claim.i changed paragraph 3 of my third post because i cannot back the claim that ccp is seriously considering the introduction of game mechanics to allow for some form of consensual-pvp. at this point it time i can only say that it is a suspicion. that however, is irrelevant to whether eve would be better or worse with the changes i suggested.do you agree that eve would be better if players could fight to change the security rating of a system? because that is the key. if you agree, then we are on the same page, or at least on the same book. if you disagree then you are as much against the sandbox as those who think that nobody should be able to shoot at them unless they give their full consent."
"i agree that the main feature of eve is pvp, i even agree that pvp is the best feature of eve. i am just asking that dev's let us players fight to shape eve. at the moment there is an artificial division between 0.0 and empire. i want those walls down, and i want players to be able and willing to fight. i am afraid though, that the only reason why people would want to fight in empire is precisely to uphold their right to be left in peace. i would be glad to put the right to shoot at them on the table if they are willing to put on the table the right not to be shot."
"and herein lies the rub. carebears live in high sec, and don't want to be shot. period. you make it so they have to fight to maintain the ability to have more security, and the subscription rate is going to go down faster than lindsay lohan after a dropped crack rock. why? because carebears don't want to fight. they want to grind missions, mine roids, mine ice, build stuff, buy more shiny ships, and be left alone.so the proposal of them actually having to do something that may involve violent conflict to maintain the security of an area? yeah... probably not going to go over very well, and would more than likely destroy the fragile balance which exists. i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"op should get a thumbs up just for the entertainment value of this thread. but...no thumbs up from me. i do however need to go to the store for more popcorn...i will assuredly run out reading this thread."
"i didn't say those things were terrible ... they exist (plague to some, joyful mayhem to others) and in fact they will continue to exist ... unaffected by consensual pvp. eve is a pvp game? - sure .... but it just doesn't appeal to 80% of it's residents so far as something they like to take part in - and there needs to be a way to bridge more people into it ... so i still don't get it ... how can adding more pvp (pvp missions or some sort of arrangement) be a bad thing?"
"this is a terrible idea and there is nothing to reconcile. placing non-pvp areas completely disrupts the game's uniqueness and mechanics.\"eve isn't designed to just look like a cold, dark and harsh world; it's designed to be a cold, dark and harsh world.\"-ccp wranglereve is an awesome scifi mmo in it's own right but the above sentence is why i love this game and have been playing for all these years. we just went though the summer of rage because of nex, wis and ccp's lost focus on fis. in my opinion having non-consensual pvp areas (even in noob areas) is much worse.i'm pretty heavy into mining and trading (check my kb stats). in all this time i've only ever lost two barges (due to my own stupidity). i've mined in all areas of new eden including wormholes, low and null, hulkageddons and countless war decs. instead of saying mechanics need to change i'm of the mind that the people who complain of, \"ganking\" or \"non-consensual pvp\" just suck at the game."
"i quoted what i mentioned earlier. as far as n00bs getting that rainbow bridge to pvp, there isn't any. there are a megafukton of corps, alliances looking for rifter heros. little nubs that are sporting wood because they can now fit a point and a web.the issue is not the mechanics, the issue is with the barracks lawyers in the npc corps that has never left it because it scares them, yet they chest beat thinking they know wtf!what is worse, is you have a help channel with supposed \"informed\" ccp drones that know even less. and please drop the link showing your 80% of the residents as proof. the problem with this kind of thread, is that we have peeps wanting something to change, that is totally fine, but said peeps continue to use false claims, anecdotal facts or exaggerations.it is like, you are afraid of the response and the truth, and by slinging bullshit, you are hoping to get away with it."
"it sounds like most of the complaining is about hot drops, which are honestly kind of cheap.why not let the cyno jammer also block covops cynos?"
"because the whole point of the covert cyno is to bypass cyno jammers you dumb ****."
"but the whole purpose of cyno jammers is to jam cynos! good god we are caught in an endless loop of dumb ****ery!uh oh the two of us better post as our alts in noobcorps so we don't look like idiots on our main accounts!actually the point of covert cynos is to jump in a very specific type of subcap without needing to buy a titan. also covert cynos don't pop up on everyone's overview which makes them .... you know .... covert."
"no need to attempt to convince us otherwise of your anger towards pvpers, your requests have already shown us that. despite you not having the skills yet to pilot a supercap, your admitted \"future benefit,\" is sufficient for self. regardless aoe weapon systems are a no go in high-sec. plus piloting capitals are part of the benefit to null.and then you talk about defending the upcoming customs office to which there has been very little fortold of what it can do. debating your defense of a non-existant component of gameplay yet is laughable. they may not even exist in highsec at the beginning, rendering again, your point moot.and then there's the truth of the matter, you want drastic penalties to ganking. boo hoo, you're mad. and now you take a 15 minute gcc and you think giving someone no empire play time for 1 <U+FFFD> 6 months a just sentence?! are you 12? it<U+FFFD>s not everyone else<U+FFFD>s fault that you don<U+FFFD>t know how to a) tank your ships properly, or b) are smart enough to hide your cargo. indeed, you are blind. there<U+FFFD>s plenty of ways to protect your assets, it starts by using your head. htfu, this thread isn<U+FFFD>t an excuse to perform a reach around of your own fail."
"it is always so cute when posters with infantile arguments call someone else a twelve year old! almost as cutesy as their weak and idiotic assumptions that anyone having an opinion different from their own must be licking the wounds of numerous defeats because of poor game playing skills.i have never lost a ship to another human player on any of my accounts and i have never been podded on any of my accounts with just under 8 months of game play that is nothing spectacular but it does make moot all the phony assumptions that my positions are derived from wanting to get pay back for being ganked. i did get my ship blown up by concord as a newbie because i shot a wreck instead of a rat. also when relatively new i was told it was safe to go to the asteroid belts during an incursion, the sansha taught me otherwise. i quickly lost a well rigged industrial ship and the even better rigged cruiser i foolishly sought to salvage the first wreck with. needless to say the rapid loss of 2 ships to the sansha was a lesson i paid to learn lol. i lost a brutix to sleepers but i am addicted to sleeper loot so i have made that isk back many times over in many different wormholes.i don't afk pilot, i use cloaky haulers and/ or an orca or freighter to haul valuable cargo from low sec to trading hubs (no i don't use the orca or the freighter in the low sec segments of any cargo haul). i have good skill training in warp drive operations, i use warp stabs, and the rigs that get my slowest ships to warp as soon as possible. as a noob i use to industrial mine in an iitty so i learned to stay aligned to jump points and tank with the best of them. i watch d-scan and am aware when someone starts to use probes in any system i occupy. i watch local and have trained all my alts minimally to use cloaking devices an i spend time scouting routes in cov-ops ships to establish safe spots and non-direct routes to gates for emergency exits.i have to ask you cordo are you projecting your pvp fails upon someone who has none out of ignorance or lack of intellectual capacity?yes i think the penalty for ganking is no penalty at all, i also think that the bounty system is broken and no cordo i don't think that because someone placed a big bounty on me. some people playing this game have these things called independent thoughts and ideas they hope might improve the game. cordo you don't have to agree with all of them or in your case even understand them but the forums are the place in this game where players can get their ideas and thoughts vetted by other players with the intellectual capacity to analyze statements and make superior counter arguments, sort of intelligence pvp. cordo you are a shuttle facing down a titan in this match of intelligence pvp all your incorrect assumptions totally fail!"
"capships are a benefit of low, and supers are a benefit of of null and player sovereignty. also, a well-fit pos is a near assured deathwish for anyone in hisec -- but you have to keep up with the defence. if they incap your guns, fix them. if they rf the pos, get shield repair boats on it soon as the rf timer expires (also, have more stront ready). have a \"standing fleet\" ready in case of wars... furthermore, if caps/supers were allowed in hi-sec, it would be akin to having a level 20 or 50 or 80 or whatever character in other games and then walking into the noob starting areas -- i.e. they'd essentially be solo wtfpwn mobiles. hell, even in lowsec all you need is a single dread or carrier, and you get instant :fear: from the hi-seccers who may be passing through (low/null seccers, not so much). if you're still talking about hi-sec, you won't have to worry about your customs office getting sieged, as player-owned offices are only being introduced in low/null/w-space.furthermore, if you're setting up a solo customs office (i.e. one-man corp or something), and expect it to be ignored in lowsec ... well, let's just say it's a poor expectation.you can always have friends around to scoop the loot ..."
"it's easy to predict what will happen with the customs houses ... the large alliances will sweep in and claim them, and lock everyone else out or tax them ... carebears won't care ... and we're back to square one ... but hey, it will be entertaining for a few months until we're back to playing eve goonswarm edition."
"actually i think the reinforce timers on the new customs offices are short enough based on that devblog that your average nullsec alliance wouldn't have enough patience to babysit every planet in one high sec region.if you set up a customs office in highsec and jacked the taxes up to 100% people would just go a few jumps until they found an office with lower taxes. if someone wanted to force people to pay high planet taxes they'd have to take over every single planet of that type within 20 jumps.that's waaaay too much effort for a nullsec alliance, and probably too much effort for most huge highsec alliances. that's assuming large highsec alliances even exist, i just assumed that highsec is just a bunch of solo mission runners selling monocles to one another.i'd bet that one corp or alliance would be able to lock down and babysit only a few solar systems, and they'd keep the taxes relatively low to compete with the nearby corps and alliances with their own planets.i vote yes let people set up player owned custom offices in highsec.i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"i have a very simple reason for not going out into low sec or null sec often: it costs isk to go there. if i go to either, i'm almost guaranteed to lose my ship to some gate camp or, in the case of null sec, a blob. this is counter-productive, so unless i'm specifically looking for a fight and willing to lose some isk, i stay away from both. i never go to either in order to make isk, as that would require too much of my time in null sec, and low sec just isn't profitable for isk making as it is compared to the risk.with that being said, i would like something with similar risks as this to get a fairly good rush, but not guaranteed insta-death. such as a way of smuggling banned goods between empires. or making bounty hunting a more profitable venture. essentially things that have been suggested before. however, the most important part of all of this is it has to include other players. i can't stand doing missions of any kind, or anything similar. this essentially means some way for players to pool money and one character/corporation winning the money, like a bounty system where players increase the bounty with their own isk, and then another player can gain kill rights, or have some flushed out system."
"yeah don't care what they do (with hisec customs houses) ... the hisec planets are not worth much ... i bet ppl would mainly stop using them if they become destructable in hisec - there wouldn't be much financial incentive to build/use them, compared to the ease with with gankers would destroy them just for fun."
"well we all know how irritating it is sometimes not being able to understand which system the fc is ordering the fleet to warp to so i propose that we change the system names to something which is easier to pronounce for the sake of efficiency in the game.i understand that some of the planets and systems were named after beta testers and i really appreciate their work and would like to take this opportunity to thank them on behalf of entire new eden. but the reason they beta tested was to make eve online better and the way it can be made even more better is to simply change the planet and system names. that is what they would have wanted and that is the best way to honor their memory."
"fc : set destination to linked system in fleet chat. fc: everyone warp to hof (hofjaldgund) gate not too hard to work around it."
"orfc: everyone warp to hotel-oscar-foxtrotnot that hard.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"or that,"
"i'm all for making things easier ... but with multiple languages playing the game, you might cause more problems than you'd solve."
"at this point it is a fact that that because of the hard to pronounce names people misunderstand where to warp even if the fc says \"hotel-oscar-foxtrot\" and with regards to setting destination it's not always that you warp to the set destination. plans might change suddenly. no matter what you say at this point people are having difficulties because of the hard to pronounce names. i've seen with my own eyes people having these difficulties so for their sake and everyone else in new eden who are having the same problems i urge every capsuleer to support this proposal."
"i fully understand your concerns and have thought them through but as it is now most of the planet and system names if not all are in icelandic even though the majority of the playerbase speaks english and understands english better. so by changing the names we would not make problems but solve them and that is what we should do if we want to move eve online forward. so if you are not against eve but want to see it prosper support this proposal and if not. well there isn't much i can do."
"warp to the first/second/third gate. right click > stargates > third gate > warp (assuming your overview isn't set up to make this really easy)problem solved."
"i fully understand your point and it would solve the problem but unfortunately only for mining fleets. in fast fleet action people only have time to use shortcuts to warp quickly. so i am afraid that everyone will still have to support this issue and ccp will still have to urgently change this."
"new eden is not in england or america, they don't speak english, as a result, the names are not english."
"stop right there.its very clear to us that you are obviously not famialr with the nature of fleet operations.i suggest you take the time to talk to fc's before you start spouting off noobish gibberish like some kid who thinks he knows everything.as its already been stated...there are multiple languages invovled...changing things for \"your sake\" on behalf of \"us\" is not what i call a good excuse.the system names are fine as they are....its a flavor of uniqueness..we dont need to mess it up.you pick a method and you stick to it.changing names won't change a damn thing....its the same mechanics....and your reasoning for \"change of plans\" is ridiculous.the rule in fleets is simple...you do as your told...or your ass is podded.end of discussion.some may not be as harsh...others worse yet. if you can't follow instructions..you have no business being in a fleet.many corps...and alliances have an entire sop on the subject.i seriously doubt you have any experince to base your \"complaint\" (as opposed to proposal) on this subject at best.in short...the solution is to get a good fc and to listen to your fc....changing the coat of paint won't change a damn thing.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"there are other clients than english but the language that the majority of eve players understand is english. here in denmark for example people start learning english from 4th grade."
"so you speak for everyone else then?this coming from a 12 day old toon....in an npc corporation.yeah....sure....uh huh...yep.lets force our language on every one else.... thats gonna start a flame war.i bleieve that is my exit signal.*quitely exits out the back before the fist fight starts*================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i've never encountered this problem tbh. it's easy to broadcast destinations and when giving commands it doesn't matter if you pronounce the system name correctly. all that matters is that you are able to differentiate it from the other options available within that system. if the name is unpronouncable, you use the first few letters and digits to achieve the same thing.i'm also not sure what the name changes would actually really achieve, since this is a global game. some people are going to have trouble with some names and others with different ones.you'd propably object, if all the names would be changed, so they would be easy and clear for me to pronounce, since finnish is my native language. on the other hand i can guarantee, that i won't pronounce all the words as they should be, if they were chosen by a native english speaker for example. i just don't see any particular reason why ccp should start catering to any one group on this issue. it's propably best, that they leave the names as they are."
"i have a better idea...learn to pronounce the system names better.look at me! solving problems again! woohoo!"
"no, just no.it would be like changing new york to something else just to make life easy for someone that's not a native english speaker.the names we have in eve may be difficult to translate but these are the names we have and i never want to see them changed to something mundane. how bad would it be to have bourynes changed to bristol? or emogranlan to blackpool? no freakin way dude!leave our names be. not supported."
"short and sweet;both highsec and lowsec both have a number of static 1/10 and 2/10 plexes, which are frequently used for small scale frigate/destroyer pvp (often solo). more and more, these are the only places one can find solo frigate pvp in lowsec.the 1/10s and 2/10s in highsec are all camped, 23.7/7. there'll be someone in them if you log off on the gate and spam login as soon as the server comes up. removing the static 1 and 2/10s from highsec, whilst leaving the lowsec ones in place, would reduce the supply of small c and b type modules (which are everywhere nowadays), thus forcing the price up, and encouraging solo/small gang/small ship pvp.i don't think players should be rewarded for camping a highsec complex constantly."
"i too would like to see the problem solved. not the supply with lowgrade mods but the perma camping. right now the higsec statics are of no interest to others then the guy camping it."
"supported.the lowsec ones aren't really camped because of the ability to shoot the person. the high sec ded's were meant to be a way to get noobies into exploration and give them some good isk. thats not what they are used for anymore, might as well relocate them."
"so your solution to \"new players can't use these complexes people permacamp them\" is to remove the complexes (or more accurately, move them to a place new players are even less likely to be able to use them)? that's like punishing your kid because the dog pissed on the floor."
"i am not in favor of removing these sites from hisec space.they are part of the new player experience (except for the campers who need to feed their epeen on new folk).i do agree that there is a problem, that of the perma-campers and n00b-hunters, unfortunately, i do not have a fair solution at this time. allowing concord in hisec ded is a bad idea.restricting access to players under x time in eve is an even worse idea.making a game mechanic to restrict players (campers) from doing as they want is also a bad idea.no \"simple\" solution."
"remove them as static, make then scannable like the other plexes, just with a strong signal strength. farming them becomes harder as you can't just sit in the last room waiting for it to respawn. or as anomlies, rather than signatures."
"that makes a lot of sense to me."
"i like to build stuff ... and doing so well, takes more skill than any gank .... and when i do want to try pvp, i don't want to be forced to ruin someone else's day .... yet somehow i'm made out to the \"bad guy\" b/c i don't want to waste time gankin or playing docking and/or blob games.there's nothing in low or null for me to want ... i don't care how much isk there might be out there ... it's hardly worth having to sell my soul."
"tell me more of what you've learned about low/nullsec from your extensive experience in fna (is that a corp in mvn?)"
"if you would like to post this up and cite me then fine but i'm not in support of this idea. i love my recons and i know that this will make them horrible wtfomgpwnbbq. i came up with the ideas to show that there are simple ways to change the rules without making them to complicated, and still get what you are aiming for. in this specific case, the sneak attack, which is already a viable tactic using bombers.mmos come and go, but eve remains. -garresh-"
"tags have always been a problem for cashing in lp but have become far more so lately. i don't know the root cause of the current tag shortages but it's clear to me something should be done. so i have a fairly straight forward and obvious solution:1) add 15 new missions against each of the 4 factions (60 total missions, yes, i know that's a lot of work) with five of them being lvl3's, five being lvl4's and five being lvl5's (mostly ungated as gated ones are rarely run).2) add an option to existing agents that when selected, allows players to run missions against opposing factions exclusively rather than having the usual pirate killing missions mixed in. i would support adding an option to do the opposite as well so players could run anti-pie missions only instead.3) adjust some tag drop rates. the republic fleet captain tag for example is one of the rarest tags in game and yet is used for practically everything.4) no item or bpc should require 400 tags, i don't care if they do cost 5k isk each. a hard limit of 100 tags should be applied, any item/bpc that requires more than that should be adjusted.alternatively the tag requirements could be deleted and add isk requirements instead but i think the current tag system is better tbh. it just needs some adjustment."
"i'm not sure this would help your problem (though, i'm not sure your problem is an actual problem that requires addressing). it's generally advised that missioners simply turn down faction missions because they eviscerate your standings. anyone who is doing them is doing them because they think the additional payout from tags is worth the standings loss; if prices fall, people will stop doing them, supply will drop and then prices will rise again.increasing the drop rate per boat might help; it'd let sellers make the same isk/hour while increasing volume.tricky, though."
"here's the issue as i see it. no matter what happens, the balance of standing hit vs extra isk is always what's going to determine the tag market. if there are more tags dropped, they will increase supply for a short time, but then as tag prices fall, fewer people will find it worthwhile to run the sites, supply will drop and price will rise again, and it'll be back in the exact same spot as it is right now. the reason that it is worthwhile for some people is the extra money they make from it, if the tags go down in value, the extra money will go down and fewer people will do them.the only way i can see to permanently increase tag supply and lower their costs would be to reduce standings hits in the missions that drop tags. if there's less standing penalty, more people will run them and they won't need to make as much isk off the tags to feel that it's worth the standings hit, thus driving down tag prices."
"which tags are under supplied?"
"i don't think you understand. \"under supplied\" means \"not available at the price i want to buy them for.\""
"op doesn't understand how trolling works obviously."
"and ader systems stay the same crap how they are now, no m8 if make than in all systems not in one per region. eny way alliances not interested in sec statuses and ratings or **** like that, that way no one fights about good sec statuss. so noo need make worse than that is need back all santums and boost 0.0 for more income, risk vs revard in 0.0 need to be best in all eve but that is not so. :("
"i think reducing the timer would make it too easy to travel around. things can get blown up when they travel but not when they . i like things getting blown up.i guess they could try to majorly chnge the way implants work like you suggest. but it just seems easier to simply allow more clones. maybe make it a level 5 skill or whatever but the number of implant sets is growing while the number of clones is the same. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"like they've said above, people are already doing this ... so it's not allowing anything new ... it's just removing unneeded boredom.+1"
"this would also require some form of clonejumping. i mean the wis way of clonejumping."
"this and engine trails...supported."
"i am completely against the bouncing boobs idea.nuff said."
"as long as it is only trials that never activated.+1"
"trial accounts that haven't been activated after a month after their trial expired should be purged automatically. a trial is there for you to see whether you like the game or not, not to reserve yourself a character name in case you decide to play it three years from now.i am not sure about paid accounts which went inactive a long time ago. i would like a solution where you keep your name unless someone else actually creates another character with the same name. when that happens, you get renamed to caldari citizen 1234567, and get a free character rename ticket. either way, there definitely needs to be a long timer on it, a year, maybe two after your account went inactive."
"i'm a pirate. i might be on the receiving end of bounties, and i still approve. as it stands now, the guys that most often collect bounties from pirates are other pirates (or alts if it's a nice & juicy bounty). that's just not how it should work. it'd be awesome if there were groups of players who specialised in bounty hunting; that could result in plenty of gudfites.i heartily approve of anything that unbreaks the bounty system, even if it might be just partly. there may not be a perfect solution, but this one sure is a lot more perfect-ish than what we currently have.+1"
"much appreciated. i'm looking for pirate feedback on the proposal since they're the most affected by bounties. part of the proposal's idea is to encourage more reasons to go into low."
"ok the one problem i have with the \"hurr durr, go play world of warcraft.\" argument is that people actually will hurr durr and then go play world of warcraft.if you tell people to get out of your game then they will get out of your game.and in the long run low subscription numbers hurt an mmo.i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"fair enough point.i'm afraid that the addition of arenas on tranquility would really spoil the game for me. the way pvp works in eve is one of the major things i like about the game, even though i don't partake in much actual pvp myself. i know it works in other games, and i'm sure it would work in eve (from a pure mechanics perspective), but for me it really goes against the style and spirit of the eve universe. would it break the way i play the game? no it wouldn't, but for me it would spoil the universe i play in to some extent.now, to provide a more helpful answer than i did in my previous post.eve is a sandbox - that means a fair amount of content is player-driven rather than handed down from ccp. i'm a fan of this setup and i really would hate to see eve turn into a wow-style on-rails game.rather than asking ccp to introduce new game mechanics or features to make arena-style pvp a possibility, you actually have the power to do it yourself.take a look at rvb for example - two corps (red federation and blue republic) that are permanently at war. you can simply sign up for one side or the other and jump into solo and small-gang pvp with them. they also run small fleets, arranged between fcs in both corps and limited to a certain number of ships or certain ship-classes.if you want arena-style combat with rules, point-systems, prizes, etc. all you have to do is set up a corp (or a pair of rvb style corps) to provide this. that way you are in control of the rules. if you want to use the same point-system that ccp use for the alliance tournament all you have to do is copy & paste. if you don't agree with their system or you want to tweak it, then it's in your power to do so. if people don't stick to the rules of your arena you also have the power to kick them from the corp.the sisi test server is a perfect place to do this kind of thing (if you stay outside the main ffa arenas) as you can buy all the ships and mods for 100isk (there is a station for this in each region i believe). another advantage of sisi is that, unless you're in an ffa area, other players are not allowed to interfere with you.there is literally nothing stopping people from setting this kind of thing up - all you have to do is get off your butt and do it.unfortunately people would rather come onto the forums and petition ccp to add new features and change (for me) fundamental game mechanics than do a little bit of work themselves.so it's not so much that i want to see players go back to wow, but that i want to see that kind of thinking left behind with wow. there are already a lot of games like that, but there is only one eve./rant"
"no. eve is pvp, like it or not, everything in eve comes down to pvp. if you mine, you are gaining minerals to build ships, which somewhere down the line become pvp stuff, even if the fisr 4 steps are more mining ships, eventually it will feed to pvp.market? that is pvp. missions? making isk to get better than other people - pvp. missioning just to make isk to better yourself? you will at some point sell loot or do somethign that ends up in the hands of pvp.if you make any area zero risk, all that will happen is it will become clogged with pvpers alts to make risk free isk, such as my mining alt and so on.there must never be a place where pvp can not happen randomly."
"well, there is ship spinning... pvp doesn't happen \"randomly\" there...if you choose to take advantage of that \"moron\" selling a plex for 350m (and a plex ... ) ... it's you who ganked yourselfif you choose to take advantage of that \"moron\" buying afterburner i's at 5m isk per, and get stuck with his load of overpriced afterburners ... it's you who ganked yourself.if you click the undock button, you're clicking the \"bring it on guys\" button... personally, i think that for some of the activities (see:mining), they need to make it feel more like pvp. i.e. there needs to be more feeling of \"these are my rocks dammit!\" and conflict caused by people absolutely trashing a system on saturday. right now, all we have is \"meh, i'll go next door\"... perhaps bringing back the 1 or 2 respawns per week mechanic?"
"fair enough mal, thanks for your insights. imo, the current mechanics around pvp are already \"contrived and artificial\" enough, and the barriers to doing the things you mentioned hassle enough (tho not insurmountable, just unlikely for new players to do) to make it worth providing an in game \"battleground system\" or \"pvp missions\" worthwhile. but seems like a legitimate difference of opinion / matter of taste.the real question then (one which ccp will have to decide), is which method would best sustain/increase eve's subscriber numbers, with the least impact to existing playerbase?"
"this.this would increase competition for roids, and this maybe make the carebears a little more protective and violent. also, it would make mining less of a \"start game for free iskies\" type of thing. might turn some of the carebears into real industrialists.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"hmmmm .... the current \"harrass the mining fleet via can flipping until they warp out\" mechanic isn't working?trying to turn carebears violent? --> meh, they'll just go next door (to another game that makes them feel more powerful, more easily).and i know most of you will simply say \"great, let them leave, what do we care, htfu\" ... but i hope you won't be that short sighted."
"i don't mine. rif. i was speaking of a newb who does mine. in who's case a hulk gank (considering he is new and not as well informed of such dynamics) pretty much ruined his entire investment in the game. oh wait no i wen mining a couple of times in a maelstrom because i was hanging out with a buddy and bored. do you have any idea how pathetic t1 mning layzors are?"
"so let me see if i got this right special ships for low and null are good but allowing those ships for defense only in high is bad. yes i see the light that is completely fair, after all you pay a higher subscription rate then high sec players ..... wait no you don't ...... well then is must be because most players choose to live in low and null and naturally the best benefits gravitate to the majority .... oh dang i'm wrong again most players are in high sec null and low is just full of the best whiners! how about a super awesome pvp ship only for high sec? oh i forgot you don't give a ____ about anybody in high sec unless they are a target."
"so how would that work ...... something like this..... \" hey bill i'm going mining today for a few hours why don't you just hang around to scoop up my salvage when a nice ganker blows up my ship ..... you will, thanks buddy you are the best!\" if your ideas were not so simplistically unworkable they would almost be funny."
"\"oh, but you forget, eve is a pvp , i mean, gank game, didn't you know that when you signed up?yeah it's 100% gank, everywhere, all the time .. you just don't know how to play the game if you're not out there ganking everyone, or being ganked and liking it - it's the only way to play! .... and don't you dare change it -- it'll completely break the game ..winning!!!\""
"if people stopped using them then the supply would go down while demand stays the same making pi more profitable.if people jack up the taxes then then people will charge more for pi, so you'll still make money. (when mineral prices go up, ship and ammo prices go up)customs offices have reinforce timers and probably structural hp levels so neut ganking is not an option. you can pop a hulk with thrashers before concord gets there but not a structure like a pos. they'll have to wardeck you which gives you a fighting chance at least.and yes a massive alliance could roll up with more battleships than you have corp members and blob you. but ... sad to say... that's life. if you want to hold something then you need enough power to keep it from others.i have had fair fights before, they exist!and if you are only outnumbered a little bit, like 3/4 or 2/3 if you are a bit more badass. ultimately if you are better at flying your ship than they are then you can win. try taking a 10 man gang around lowsec some time it works.i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"you are right .... that's the theory ... at like 10-15% the pi yield of nullsec tho ... not sure anyone would bother much ... it would definitely add raiding targets for pvp hooligans tho ... so win ... i guess? -> not a valid option not to love pvp, right?actually i'd say do whatever will attract, keep, and retain new players the most, is what i'd advocate ... would be great to have some solid data one way or the other based on behavioral studies of new players.yes, i believe you ... and what would be useful, is a better way for new players to actually find those fair fights (more so than the normal \"a*** ****\" ones), before they unsub ...i've been playing long enough that i personally no longer care (i've got plenty of alts - i just go play something/somewhere else) ... but i hate to see new friends or members leave time and again."
"duplicate post, sorry."
"let's have a little hypothetical situation.you actually get into a player corp and we dec them over our rightful claim to the ore belts in some system. you try avoiding it by sitting in station (sidenote, not necessarily a bad thing to not give the other guys kills) we find your poorly-defended tower in hisec we get a gang together (10 pilots or less) and decide to shoot at the pos. you bring a triage carrier out and soak all the dps we can lay down. we'd love to bring our dreads ... but can't ... because it's not \"defence\" how is that fair to us?now, if you would have taken the four seconds it takes to pull up a pilot's corp history, you would see that i have lived in corporations that are primarily not combat-oriented. hell, after nearly 4.5 years of playing, i still have embarrassingly bad combat-related skills. sure, i have a corp here or there that had a good bit of combat involved (even did a stint in nullsec) ... my only recorded kill(s) are against war targets, and have been stupid lucky. i don't seek out fights (or even ganks); and am perfectly content to keep things that way.as for my comment about having friends around. i never said that you should have someone babysitting you in a belt -- only the implication that you can bring friends along too. or, put another way -- get into a good corporation and actually work with your corp-mates."
"fair to you because of the mythical risk versus reward mantra that permeates new eden. because you and your 10 pals believe a pos is poorly defended you feel entitled to be able to destroy it, who promised you that? you don't want risk vs reward you want a guaranteed win. you researched the hypothetical little corp and thought it a quick easy target you were wrong boo hoo!yes you can't bring in your dreads because you are the aggressor ..... but fear not after wiping the floor with your 10 pilot gang i'm sure the war dec over the rightful claim to the ore belts will visit your pos in short order after your initial defeat while your pilots are in disarray if you are facing a competent opponent .... then you might get to use your big guns in defense as the fairness needle swings back to you."
"i never said it would be \"quick\" nor \"easy\", just that it was poorly defended. pos are a pain to take down no matter where you are ... doubly so in hisec when you can't bring in big guns.so you can bring caps to \"defend\" your pos... but i can't bring caps to \"defend\" my fleet?how is allowing caps on one side and denying caps on the other \"fair\"?"
"could you please, please, make the distance to locked targets more visible next to it or on top of it or something. for me its a constant problem that i cant always see it, its so small (i have a high rez monitor). maybe make it bold and slightly bigger or maybe a bright green or something. i know for a fact im not the only one who wishes for this. the numbers are so tiny and so like every other text next to it that before i know it im either out of range or too close. i would like to be able to see that info without actually super-focusing on the tiny area of the screen....sort of passively see it.also related to distance....but thats just wishful thinking...have the speed turn red if its decreasing and green if its increasing. kind of makes it easier to keep track of whats going on when you are fighting 2-3-4 ships at once, which is often the case with me.yes, im expecting fierce opposition from the hardcore, micromanaging, \"everything must be super hard to do\" crowd."
"too much imformation crowding the space would make anything larger than 5 ships in a fleet impossible to navigate accurately.not supported.as a counterpoint all of this information is in your overview, and if your having a hard time seeing it on you amazing monitor, i would support that overview font size can be adjusted. also this issue might be fixed with the new font, have you looked at it on sisi?"
"granted, this may be a trivial desire compared to some of the other issues that the council deals with, but it's also a relatively quick and easy fix. just give me the option of hearing the original strip miner sound file when i'm chewing on rocks for hours on end. who's with me?"
"signed"
"oh why not.on occasion, it was nice to tab out to look for new music on the computer, and realize \"ahh ****, my miners stopped\" because the sound stopped.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"sell custom ship textures in the aur store. wanna pink thorax?maybe allow your corp icon to be painted on for a simple isk transaction."
"screw micro transactions!let us paint our thoraxes pink for free!seriously though we just had a huge dust up over incarna. and a big part of that was the $80 monocle thing. i pay close to $15 a month for this game, and i am not going to buy a bucket of ship paint for another $50 or whatever.i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"it could be nice to be able to buy pre determined ship textures for a certain amount of aur (another thing to get aur for)just things that are cool but do not give unfair advantage. and ofcourse not for those insane monocle prices. more like 50 aur for a texture (for example) the texture stays in posesion of the owner but only one ship can be painted with it. if the ship gets destroyed you can use the texture to paint a new ship. but you can not paint two ships with the same texture.the reason for pre determined textures would be obviouse ofcourse. but for the people that dont get it.. no flying pink dildos.."
"shhhhh! they already took away my \"golden retriever\" don't tell them about the pink dildos!i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"i do not want qauffe pajamas. i do not want a monocle. i need to pimp my 'cane. that, ccp, we might actually pay for."
"fleet commander broadcasts \"warp to\" for a specific gate, entire fleet right-clicks broadcast and selects \"warp to\". what's difficult about that? there is no need to rename anything, since very few people need to use the names.alternately, spend some time with your fleet commander and get to know their accent and quirky pronunciation.or i could support your proposal and inform you that <U+FFFD> being australian <U+FFFD> i have a hard time pronouncing any names other than \"bruce\". i have no problem with all systems in eve online being named \"bruce\". you're welcome."
"there are ridiculously few systems that you could get confused which stargate to warp to with the first 3 letters.the odd names add a flavor to the game, and do not hinder normal operations.however, i could see the situation where, under panic, confusion would be had. but that would be the case even if the systems were named tom, joe, and harry."
"you're lucky... at least your systems have names.i have little patience for anyone unable to refer to a merely unpronounceable name by the first three letters or whatnot, since that's more or less the only way to refer to systems in null. i'd advise that you simply get used to heading to 'aitch-oh-eff' and whatnot... since in null, it's all stuff like 'jay-tac-see' and 'ay-wun-arr'.not supported... or, at least, not before names get handed out to the null systems."
"i support adding null-like names to all of high/low sec systems for easier identification. could always keep the old names for rp sake - say, \"abc-12 (caldari prime)\". it would make the moments when i just really need to get a fleet through gallente space much les of a pain in the vocal chords.a related (and somewhat more practical) issue is one system connecting to two similarly sounding systems, making it sometimes unclear which one the fc actually meant, especially if they have a strong accent. one particular example i remember off-hand is zkyv in pure blind, which connects to f-nm and s-m."
"i have no qualms with the naming conventions.i actually like the names of every single system in the game."
"so your proposal is to change the names of (presumably) a large number of systems in order to make the game a bit easier for fcs or fleet members?names that have been part of the eve galaxy for, what, 7 years or more?for me this smacks too much of dumbing down.i like the eve system names just as they are - especially haajinen which, when pronounced by a certain fc, sounded absolutely hilarious as others have already mentioned there are a number of ways in which to convey system names for fleet warps, etc. (e.g. linking in chat, using abbreviations or spelling, broadcast window, setting destinations/waypoints).perhaps if you're having trouble you could investigate some of those first, instead of trying to get the whole galaxy altered?"
"agreed, make them anomaly-like, in that they spawn and can be picked up with the system scanner.though, i've been to 6 sites in the past 2 days and none of them were camped."
"while i'm not sure about building this sort of thing directly into the client, i do find myself incredibly drawn to the idea of yelling \"fire ze missiles!\" at my computer to activate the cruise-launchers on my raven..."
"assuming the changes to 0.0 in the winter expansion are a success, ccp would be prudent to devote the next expansion to improving lowsec."
"when im writing in the chatbox while docking/undocking, i exit the chatbox after the loadingscreen. fix it^^"
"1) thats a bug/problem with the game, not a proposal to the csm. post in the right section next time.2) clarify what your problem is. is it that the chat window loses focus after the loading screen or is your chat window actually physically closing?"
"oh, yea sorry for not posting it the right place (where to post it then?). but your right when i read the thread again it seems kindof confusing. the problem is that it loses focus after the loading screen."
"issues and workarounds"
"i like the suggestion brought up as modification to the op. ill think about a constructive reply :). bombers are nice but extremely specific, which reduces greatly their overall viability except for very specific tasks...and god forbid anyone targets and actually shoots you."
"when a frigate can get up to 600+ dps on a battleship (solo) and then on top of that is given an area effect weapon that deals massive damage, i'm really glad that it can be instapopped if looked at sideways. same goes for the tier 3 bc's, it's all a matter of pro's and con's. strong enough that you want to fly it with glaring weaknesses that make you think twice. what op suggests, or even my modification will make recons to powerful, more specifically the arazu and the rapier. frigates would never be flown again in pvp for fear of a recon ambushing you.mmos come and go, but eve remains. -garresh-"
"actually, atm what saves frigates from a rapier or arazu is not the dps of the recon, its the lock delay between decloaking + lock time. which can be around 10 seconds. that is plenty of time for a frigate to warp out. i do not think that my suggestion would affect frigates that much. the stealth bomber is highly specific, it also gets killed quickly by drones. bombers are useless solo, you can only kill the hopelessly stupid and negligent alone.i do not agree with the cloaking targeting on recons. that would make them far more powerful than the critical strike i was suggesting. no frigate would escape, it would be locked and scrammed, webbed before he knew what was happening and giving it zero survival in that encounter.from what i see, ganking frigs is the main concern. a modification i would make on my op would be a 50% tracking penalty on the critical strike as to make it harder to insta kill / gank moving frigs. after the strike the guns would return to their normal tracking. that would make it very hard to crit a moving frigate. after all the posts i still do not see a really valid objection to the actual ability of the recons, but to the actual execution."
"i agree, i am against insta locking of any kind without the target being able to \"see\" it coming and with some sense protect itself. dont like \"no can defense\" anything."
"this particular property is for gun / missile recons not for the pilgrim. the pilgrim is a special kind of recon. by no means is this supposed to be a property for every recon or cloaking ship. for the pilgrim i would give it something that fits its general role/idea, font know what yet."
"right. as i said, this is only for gunships."
"thats not what it would do. i think you missed half the op."
"if this isnt overpowered, i dont know what is. i do not agree. timer or no timer, being able to lock someone while cloaked and being able to insta engage is bad!"
"i support the op with some mods to prevent insta popping every frigate."
"your original post is far to complicated to even be considered by most people. they don't even address the issue of you op because it's far to restrictive and rules heavy. in essence sneak attack has no premise in eve because of the inherent abilities of starships. the ability to constantly have automated programs standing guard and keeping defences primed and optimized is the glaring issue and chief arguement with the op.recons are ewar beasts and really don't need any change to make them better or worse (as a ship standpoint) ecm is something completely different and i'm not arguing that here.mmos come and go, but eve remains. -garresh-"
"sigh, these forums really **** me off. spend 10 minutes writing up a nice response only for it to get deleted and never posted. here it goes again.why do we need more tags? i have solid proof and didn't think i had to give it but apparently i do. when was the last time you saw an imperial navy adaptive nano (not the energized)? my guess is never. they are superior to t2 and have no disadvantages compared to t2 other than cost. but here's the problem. they cost 20m+ isk to produce in tags (0 isk/lp) and are inferior to c-types which cost 10-15m isk. obviously no one buys them except as collector items.but that is with current market tag prices, now take a look at what the npc buy order prices of those tags are. suddenly that item would only cost about 5m isk to make. if tag prices reflected ccp's intention for them, in adaptive nano's would be a good item to make and i suspect farely popular. but since those tags are worth upwards of 40x as much as ccp planned, they aren't.you want to know what tag is worth 40x as much? one of them is the republic fleet captain tag. npc buy order price is ~50k isk, current player prices are around 2m isk. that huge discrepancy alone makes many of the amarr lp store items impossible to sell at a profit since deadspace and pirate faction drops of equal or superior stats are in fact cheaper. i'm not interested in increasing tag supply to improve my isk/lp rate on popular items, it's to make the other 90%+ of the lp market stuff actually worth making.as for people rejecting the missions goes, i think it's hard to predict what people will do. back when i was a high sec carebear, i never rejected missions against opposing factions. i didn't know anyone who did either. i've played fw on both sides of the minmatar/amarr front and guess what, i still don't care about killing the opposing navies. in truth the only people who seem to care about the enemy's faction standings are missioners who post on this forum. i don't think i've chatted with a single player in game who rejected such missions. so i can see it going either way.in any case, i included the options to both get anti-empire faction missions only or anti-pirate faction missions only (or the current mix). it should make everyone happy. will it increase tag supply overall? i think so but even if it doesn't, it gives the option for people like me to generate our own tags easier. perhaps even with a surplus to sell to the others like ya'll.i don't think there is anything to oppose here really. i'm proposing the addition of a few new missions at various levels and the ability to select whether or not you want to fight opposing navies. i think that doing so will bring tag prices down to where ccp intended for them to be but even if it doesn't, are you really against any of this?"
"the fundamental problem with your approach is that you're misunderstanding the point of npc buy orders. they're not supposed to represent a cap on tag prices or to indicate what tags \"should\" sell for, they're there to ensure that anti-faction missions always provide at least some baseline isk reward. the rest is left for the market to decide, same as with most any other item in the game.and as it happens, i don't think in anps would sell all that well at 5m even if the tags were available at npc buy prices. dark blood and true sansha anps have the same stats and are available at around that price, but i can't remember the last time i saw one on a lossmail. the real issue is that if you're going to go for a fancy anp, you can pick up c-types for only a little more isk (in absolute terms), and they're much more attractive."
"i don't support the general increase of tag availability. the supply of most tags is just fine. just some of the more rare ones could be tweaked."
"i have never had an issue with tags when i'm cashing in my lp. you may be doing something wrong."
"1) not sure2) cosmetic only3) the nex store4) not sure5) no6) no7) no8) no9) no10) no11) no (i still have 2 cancelled accounts)12) not sure13) no14) no (there would be too many people running around with 20 accounts)15) yes"
"forum pro tip...do not make a post about how you need more isk in your space when your character portrait has a monocle.i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"when toggling a rack to be overloaded, all modules in that rack are effected by the toggle. while sometimes this is intended and necessary, there are other times when this isn't needed. an example of this might be a pilot that is in a guardian.let's assume for a second that the guardian pilot has 4 remote reppers and 2 energy transfers, and that guardian pilot likes to maximize his rep cycles. currently overloading the rack as it stands now, also overloads the energy transfers...which more times than not is unnecessary. not only is it unnecessary, the extra overloaded modules produce more heat than that specific pilot wants across the rack.what i propose is that the overloading toggle for a specific rack not affect the rack the module is in, but rather the location in which the module is placed. for example: energy transfers are high slots items...yes, but you can drag specific modules from their \"high slot\" location to another location on your hud for whaetever reason. i.e. you can drag them to a low slot \"location\", but they remain as a high slot item.this has a positive effect of the overloading toggle not affecting modules you don't want them to, and doesn't break any current functionality with the assigned hotkeys. to produce the current effect i'm talking about, the following key sequence needs input to successfully overload your 4 reppers without touching the energy transers:shift+f1, shift+f2, shift+f3, shift+f4, f1, f2, f3, f4the changes i propose would reduce this to:ctrl-3, f1, f2, f3, f4now the above example pertains specifically to my example guardian, but this is a positive thing for any ship that use different modules for different things, and would like to overload them at different times. it gives players more control over what is and isn't being overloaded.cheers!edit: i'd also like to point out that heat would effect the non-overloaded modules as they do now. i'm not suggesting they don't."
"bump"
"supported! dont you love buying a character for its skills...but its name is 2334wtfu!@#? great, isnt it?"
"or could be the book....1989"
"well, i think the idea of a rookie plex (no faction, no t2) and then an everything as a minor makes more sense. whilst some of the empire faction frigs aren't as powerful as the pirate ones, the hookbill and the comet totally outclass every t1 non-faction frigate. the plated, two web and tracking disruptor hookbill fit that's become fairly common ("
"i am not convinced about the intel channel idea not because of the intel it provides but because it is a more limiting mechanism. you just logged on what do you see?i posted these ideas in one of the other faction warfare threads, what do you think?faction war intel mini map - 2d region based intel map, available through militia office, highlight activity, shows number of plexes taken lost/missions completed and militia ships destroyed in the last hour and importantly shows current plexes/missions in progress, perhaps with some delayed intel say 5 minutes so it does not take the place of proper scouting and maybe only for the region you are in.regarding system occupancywar taxes - controversially i would perhaps propose a tax on high sec based corps based in that faction<U+FFFD>s space. this tax only exists where there is a significant imbalance in the systems held. the worse your faction is doing the higher the tax the more isk is goes to that government. (not a huge percentage tax though perhaps just 2% or 3%)the pay-out for pvp kills and flipping systems would then be higher when a faction is losing. seems unfair but it is to create a balance so that everyone does not just jump on the winning side and that perhaps the militia is reinforced when doing badly due to greater incentives. this would require more than just the swinging of a few systems to trigger, maybe when you have lost say 30% or so and perhaps your own rewards would drop if you faction becomes too dominant."
"confirming that i couldn't come up with a name that hadn't already been taken for this character, and for some reason the word \"salinate\" popped into my head, and i changed one letter....i support this."
"reputation is important, so don't wipe accounts that were ever actually paid, even if only for a couple months. if someone paid to subscribe once, they might just pay again, after all...trial accounts, on the other hand, can safely be deleted a year after they've expired. really, that's probably more then enough time."
"in the skunkworks, we collect warnings by finding new things that haven't been labelled exploits.ccp has specifically said that they won't be considering *most* wartime corp and alliance shenanigans to be exploits. this means that if we want them to fix those mechanics with a patch, we need to abuse the hell out of them until the pressure to fix them pushes them to high priority."
"what i would like in this bounty reform proposal:insurance gets taken out of the game. no insurance for anyone, there's enough isk fountains in game and manufacturers would enjoy the buff to the value of the items they produce and to their value as players in game to other pvpers. (i'd be making deals with industrial buddies all the time to stretch my isk out to the fullest)you can put a bounty on anyone you want. (you still can't shoot at people with bounties in high sec unless they're at war with you or you're willing to risk a suicide gank)suicide gankers get a bounty pay out just like any other pilots in game.bounty hunters get a high percentage of a ship hull's worth (whatever feels right), items don't count and you have to beg the loot gods to drop the good stuff in your wrecks like every other pod pilot does. i say don't count items in your mark's ships because:1. faction/cosmos/officer items are contract only and tend to violently shift up and down in price all the time (especially officer items)2. if for some reason you get that sweet sweet estamel invuln on that burn eden nightmare you and your buddies have been tracking around new eden for the past couple of weeks, you wouldn't like it if you were payed doubly for the item in bounties, now would you? (yes you would, but deal wid it)but yeah, these proposals sound like a wet dream with :insert favorite porn star: made into reality, so the possibility of these suggestions ever even being considered is null, unless trebor sees something in these ideas that makes him as much as me.oh man i'm fapping so hard at the idea of a much darker, scarrier eve. bounties for everyone!also, page 4 snypa"
"would it be possible to please either increase the bonus for t2 rigs to warrant the astronomical price increase or lower the production requirements to match the measly 5% bonus gained.for certain items, like cargo rigs for which the bonus is cumulative over long periods of time, its ok to have a big price difference. but for ships that get blown up every 3 hours, the 5% its nearly worthless in the grand scheme of things and the overall damage absorbed or dealt. i would suggest instead of a 5% over t1 riggs, have a 20-30% bonus to whatever attribute they modify.moderator - could you please clean up the posts with the - in them? i kept hitting quote instead of edit. :( thanks!"
"why are you t2 rigging a ship if it gets blown up every three hours"
"the difference in potential between meta-3 and meta-4 items is often smaller than 5%, yet the market prices are ten times greater. t2 rigs may be getting some love soon <U+FFFD> there has been talk of \"manufacturing\" t2 salvage from lots of t1 salvage."
"precisely my point...this is why you are asking the question. the prices of t2 rigs are outrageous vs their benefits...other the other way around.fitting t2 rings should make a significant difference in pvp, not just the expensive km, which is what they do now. i dont see a justification of a 100 mil rig for a 130 mil ship, for 5% more armor. its preposterous."
"-"
"-"
"-"
"-"
"and yet arbalest hmls are more expensive than malkuth.ccp have already hinted that they will be looking at being able to manufacture t2 salvage from t1 salvage. rather than getting angry about the prices of t2 rigs, look at the reasons that they are so expensive. rather than increasing their bonuses or reducing the materials required to produce them, what about increasing the availability of the materials used for t2 rigs?"
"anybody else notice the trend here presented by all these pvp tears?pvp must be everywhere.... industry must be in places where pvp can ruin it's day.. a very lopsided and 1 way argument.it's like asking iran's opinion of america. there is no common ground."
"you really, don't get eve, and should stop thinking your ideas make sense. perhaps that's a bit rude, rather, you should play eve a bit more so you'll understand why that's a bad idea. this has nothing to do with pvp vs. industry, and has everything to do with \"once you implement a non-pvp area into eve it will drastically change the scope of the game\". whether you can see that or not doesn't really matter, but it is nevertheless true.the idea of a pvp safe haven would in practice drive margins of items down due to invincible miners/producers, and just in general goes against the very creed of eve: a risk vs. reward game."
"takara mora wrote:hmmmm .... the current \"harrass the mining fleet via can flipping until they warp out\" mechanic isn't working?trying to turn carebears violent? --> meh, they'll just go next door (to another game that makes them feel more powerful, more easily).and i know most of you will simply say \"great, let them leave, what do we care, htfu\" ... but i hope you won't be that short sighted.tbh, a lot of the trouble is there is absolutely zero competition for rocks. i can warp in with a fair-sized fleet and absolutely trash an entire goddamn system and *none* of the other \"industrial\" corporations will take offence to that. the only thing that will happen is \"meh, we'll wait til they respawn tomorrow, and then get the rocks\".can flipping and decs out of the blue from \"pvp\" corps that only care about padding their killboard with easy targets are honestly part of the problem. the issue is three-fold here:1. rocks spawn too damn fast. they used to spawn on mondays and fridays (give or take), and you had to be there to get the rocks or get nothing. this was changed to better accomodate rookies, whose 1.0 and 0.9 systems were getting trashed by bots.2. there are too damn many sources of minerals.3. there are too damn many \"industrial\" corporations. you can look in nearly any station in hisec and see offices held by \"5 man newbie-friendly industrial corporation #123432235\". possible (though likely flawed) solutions:1. put the rocks back to respawning every few days to encourage \"claiming\" resources. 1.0 and 0.9 systems can respawn every day (or at least with more rock in the case of \"every few days\"). i've run through a number of newbie systems recently, and have seen rocks with tens of thousands of m3 in them -- you should not see this in hisec. if barges and exhumers become a problem, put in *something* to inconvienience people wanting to stay in newbie-space in these specialised ships (hell, even something as absolutely daft as \"no concord intervention\" if you're gonna gank them -- in other words, leave newbie space to the newbies).2. not really sure here... getting rid of trash drops from (all) rats may help here -- this one is delicate though, as meta 1-3 modules might be considered trash to one person, and treasure to another. assuming that the bounties on them are factored by a combination of rat \"difficulty\" and what loot you may get, then possibly increase the bounty pay-out to compensate.3. this one really needs a lot more than quick/simple fixes. i mean, it's impossible to give a newer guy access to research/production slots without letting him have the ability to view (and cancel) all of the rest of the corps. if there's only research happening, this isn't necessarily a bad thing (meh, you lose a slot for up to 30 days, it sucks but isn't the end of the world) ... but if there's production happening (say 30 battleships), you lose *everything*. in addition to this, the simple fact that they can *see* what you have in the cooker can be potentially hazardous. fix for this should be allowing for at least two:research/production installer. can install research/production jobs, but can not \"see\" what's in the slots if they're taken (like what happens in an alliance research tower now -- you just see that the slot is unavailable for 2d 4h 5m). cannot deliver anything. research/production manager. can deliver jobs, as well as see what's in the oven (i.e. the current setup)"
"velicitia wrote:tbh, a lot of the trouble is there is absolutely zero competition for rocks. i can warp in with a fair-sized fleet and absolutely trash an entire goddamn system and *none* of the other \"industrial\" corporations will take offence to that. the only thing that will happen is \"meh, we'll wait til they respawn tomorrow, and then get the rocks\".can flipping and decs out of the blue from \"pvp\" corps that only care about padding their killboard with easy targets are honestly part of the problem. the issue is three-fold here:1. rocks spawn too damn fast. they used to spawn on mondays and fridays (give or take), and you had to be there to get the rocks or get nothing. this was changed to better accomodate rookies, whose 1.0 and 0.9 systems were getting trashed by bots.2. there are too damn many sources of minerals.3. there are too damn many \"industrial\" corporations. you can look in nearly any station in hisec and see offices held by \"5 man newbie-friendly industrial corporation #123432235\". possible (though likely flawed) solutions:1. put the rocks back to respawning every few days to encourage \"claiming\" resources. 1.0 and 0.9 systems can respawn every day (or at least with more rock in the case of \"every few days\"). i've run through a number of newbie systems recently, and have seen rocks with tens of thousands of m3 in them -- you should not see this in hisec. if barges and exhumers become a problem, put in *something* to inconvienience people wanting to stay in newbie-space in these specialised ships (hell, even something as absolutely daft as \"no concord intervention\" if you're gonna gank them -- in other words, leave newbie space to the newbies).2. not really sure here... getting rid of trash drops from (all) rats may help here -- this one is delicate though, as meta 1-3 modules might be considered trash to one person, and treasure to another. assuming that the bounties on them are factored by a combination of rat \"difficulty\" and what loot you may get, then possibly increase the bounty pay-out to compensate.3. this one really needs a lot more than quick/simple fixes. i mean, it's impossible to give a newer guy access to research/production slots without letting him have the ability to view (and cancel) all of the rest of the corps. if there's only research happening, this isn't necessarily a bad thing (meh, you lose a slot for up to 30 days, it sucks but isn't the end of the world) ... but if there's production happening (say 30 battleships), you lose *everything*. in addition to this, the simple fact that they can *see* what you have in the cooker can be potentially hazardous. fix for this should be allowing for at least two:research/production installer. can install research/production jobs, but can not \"see\" what's in the slots if they're taken (like what happens in an alliance research tower now -- you just see that the slot is unavailable for 2d 4h 5m). cannot deliver anything. research/production manager. can deliver jobs, as well as see what's in the oven (i.e. the current setup)0. are you proposing that small industrial corps are a bad thing? (please elaborate - interesting - i'm guessing you're not implying that hisec should go the way of nullsec so we can all become meatshield #209135) :)1. no rocks? meh, still not worth going to nullsec/losec where you'll simply lose your hulk --> better to just leave the hulk in dock and go run missions instead.2. hisec belt rats drop nothing of value - no one cares about them.3. hopefully already being fixed by team \"10 million papercuts\" or whatever, tho not likely to affect the pvp question?the pattern i'm seeing here over and over, is \"hmmm, we need more pvp inroads/training/bridge for new players\" in hisec ... but the proposal isn't really adding anything ... rather people keep gravitating towards \"well, let's just start removing perks from hisec until people hate it so much they'll be forced into losec and nullsec\" ....do you really think they'll just up and start loving losec and nullsec? when there are so many other options (other games) available to them that offer instant pvp action? sure, we all know these ppl probably are never going to be the nullsec hardcore you're looking for .... but they could be paying subscribers ... but to them, why bother with gatecamping, having to play the pirate/ganker, etc., when other games (even dust) are going to let you log in and get right in the action, every time ... reliable, adrenaline pumping, pvp .... less real? maybe ... but there are already \"less real\" parts of eve all over the place, and we're able to adapt them into the big picture.not to mention, just how much \"pure pvp\" could a game take, after all? are there any actual \"pure pvp\" games out there (where losses are real i mean)? there must be some \"balancing point\" of pvp vs. safety .... both for new players, and simply for pvp losers to be able to recoup their losses so they can try again (since in eve, losses are real) .... for the old bitters in the game, eve pvp is basically equal to wow pvp battegrounds (simply respawn in station, and slap yourself into a new ship from your tech moon fund or whatever), go find some more noobs to gank, etc. ... but for younger players, its still real .... insurance can help the very new but only to a point (i don't even bother with it myself) ... it's really only useful for the very new or suicide gankers ... you can only lose so many bc's in a day before it affects your wallet as a new player .... it's part of the beauty of eve, sure, but i'm just saying, there must be limits if we want to retain playerbase."
"tl;dr -- i don't want to see people pushed out of hisec, but i do want to see people pushed to realise that there isn't as much of a hard split between pvp and so-called \"pve\" activities.in a sense, yes i am implying small indy corps are a bad thing. the problem with the small corps is that they're no different from one another. rather than have 1 25 or 50 man strong corporation that can realise the goals they've set for themselves (supplying massive amounts of ships/minerals/whatever to their local markets), you have 5 or 10 5-man corporations that all can barely scrape by because they don't bother to realise they would be much better working together. i think a lot of this is the general eve mentality, coupled with the simple fact that no one really wants to be in these types of corporations. you're right in that i'm not trying to imply people should strive to be a meatshield.a lot of the problems are most likely caused by the terribad corporate mechanics that i mentioned... furthermore, corporations of this nature (small/industrial) seem to be where the ideas that people should be allowed to play \"alone\" without any risk to their hulk (i.e. stop suicide ganking me!) because they're just pve people are propogated. i used to be in that boat, then there was one wardec where i finally decided that enough was enough, and i was going to defend my ability to mine with my guns. i had three of my corpies follow me out, and we all died horribly -- after the engagement though, they convo'd me and we worked out the framework for a mutually agreeable relationship (however, my ceo at that time didn't like the plan, so nothing came out of it). i never said go to low/null for the rocks (though it is an option). really, i want to see something that causes the miners to want to either come to trade agreements or fight with the other mining corporations in their area. obviously, fighting always has the risk that the \"miners\" are actually combat-hardened vets looking for easy kills ... but then they'd dec you first probably.the prevalance of rocks is honestly a bit mortifying ... it's just too easy to get materials now.fair enough, but what about the mission rats? you can get some nice stuff running l4s... yeah, the \"solution\" was simply throwing an idea out there. i think having fewer small corps will help with the pvp thing, if for nothing more than because you will have more people around to help in case trouble starts. i mean, seriously a 5-man indy corp has nearly zero chance in the event there's a wardec ... a 25-man corp might not have much of a chance, but if they're all on together (i.e. not 3 here, 4 missioning over there, and no real sense of camradierie), 25 frigs/cruisers may be able to inflict a few expensive losses on the other guy.we need more pvp inroads, so that players stop thinking that eve has a real split between \"pvp\" and \"pve\" content like other mmos have -- like those battlegrounds in wow. you lose nothing by losing (except maybe trinkets or something). hell, in wow, you don't even lose your stuff when you die ... it just gets a little beat up, and you fork over some isk and get everything fixed up again with no tangible loss.not sure about your comment about people simply starting to love low/null. low is stupidly broken right now (and pretty much worthless), and i've been out of null for far too long to really know what's going on. i don't want to push people anywhere in eve. if people are happy with the low yields of hisec, and don't want to deal with the risks of low/null for the better rewards (in theory anyway), then that is their perogative. as far as \"pure pvp\" -- eve comes pretty close. or, at least it used to. there's much more of a \"walled garden\" feeling in hisec these days (i suppose it was there when i started, but my travels through null and w-space have opened my eyes to this). yeah, for nullsec people with alliance-funded ships and stuff, i suppose there is a reduction in the feeling of \"crushing loss\" when something bad happens (especially with the fact that supers seem to be a dime a dozen these days). and you're also right about the rookies having trouble with isk. most of this is caused by one side not being able to see things from the other side's point of view. if you would have asked me these questions 3ish years ago, i would have firmly been in the \"hisec should be safe for me to mine, stop ganking me!!!\" crowd. i have however, had the (mis)fortune of being in a nullsec group as part of their mining/industry team; which has let me see things differently.does this mean i'm out to gank newbs, or wardec people for the lulz? no, but it does mean that i can see the reasoning behind something like the goons invasion into gallente space..."
"sorry i have to agree, we really don't want an eve wow in space - would have be called weve :)"
"ummmm ... it still wouldn't be wow is space guys ... b/c there would still be non-consensual pvp, everywhere, just like today ... and when you lose a ship, you really lose it ... it doesn't respawn like in wow ....i think it's a big stretch to assume that adding consensual pvp would decrease the amount or level of non-consensual pvp in eve ... i actually think it would give ppl a taste of adrenaline, so they'd want to go out and pvp for real more ...i just completely don't get the \"eve has absolutely no place for consensual pvp\" attitude ... in a game where there is already consensual pve (you choose your missions, the missions are canned, etc.), and current pvp is little more than blob warfare or derr - gank-abily ... you would complain about adding a new type of pvp that is no less contrived than those ... and a type of pvp that is industry leading (as far as what most ppl want to play ... and this includes games like dust which will be essentially consensual pvp since you basically log in and start blasting the other team that gets matched to you presumably).sorry, just smells like fud to me.and ... cue the \"you don't get eve\" posts ... now."
"yeah sds very familar ... i wonder if people's loathing to join large corps/alliances tho, might have a lot to do with ppl's innate willingness to avoid other ppl ... i mean, many ppl are naturally shy, distrustful (and eve doesn't help that), some are loners/introverts, etc. .... and ... 10 man corps really do have something larger corps may not ... a feeling of family, which a lot of ppl want, and which tends to die once your organization grows beyond a certain size.i actually think it might be a huge tragedy if ccp doesn't \"foster\" solo play .... which a lot of hisec is actually ... i didn't join eve to play with 35,000 other ppl ... i just joined to play alone ... i bet there are plenty of other ppl like me .... yeah, the bitter vets can complain that \"it's not designed to be a solo game\" or \"htfu - join a large nullsec alliance already\", whatever ... the fact is, it's just not going to happen, because a heck of a lot of ppl just don't like that.there are parts of eve you just can't play solo; other parts you can ... and why can't that be \"ok\"? as long as the eve universe is big enough to support all types of play ... yeah ... there's no reason eve \"battlegrounds\" would have to be like wow tho ... other than providing a \"matchup\" system - eve could still keep it's supposed \"harshness\" (tho pvp to the big nullsec guys really is the same as wow, since they probably could lose 1000 ships and still not feel a dent in their moon mining income).agreed yeah .... the great lows that are possible, also leave room for great highs ... iow, if you didn't allow goons to do their ice blockade ... you also couldn't allow some other major coalition of \"good guys\" to say, completely blockade them out of hisec, etc., or do some other incredible feat of gamesmanship that no other game system can allow ..."
"it was designed as pure pvp. the game has changed. didnt you notice that ccp is in financial trouble? thats not just because of incarna. its that the paying masses of 75% high sec players are fed up of beeing ganked."
"well, that article certainly isn't filled with assumptions and tinfoil."
"on the upside, you can profit greatly from assumptions and tinfoil"
"ehhh. what?! the information is already there. right below the locked target, im simply asking for a different presentation. what are you actually not supporting?"
"bleh bleh on my part."
"you will be pleased to know that strip miners now have noise on singularity. go try 'em out. there are catches though: there is a distinct startup noise, a distinct stop noise, and an operational hum. the lasers will be re-started any time the orientation of the asteroid changes too much, so you'll get a series of stop/starts as each laser in turn restarts as part of the process. then when the asteroid is depleted you get the usual \"asteroid is depleted\" voice, along with all three stop noises happening together (which makes the sound a little louder), and the disappearance of the operational hum.the operational hum isn't quite as loud as the previous strip miner noise, but i found that i could make it prominent by placing the camera between the exhumer and the asteroid, such that the lasers were going through the plane of view.but don't take my word for it, head over to singularity and try it out for yourself."
"if you have custom ship textures then we'll need to make new models for most of the ships.take a look at the megathron, navy megathron, vindicator, and kronos. they are basically the same hull painted different colors.so you wouldn't be able to tell the difference between a pink mega and a pink vindicator. so for example the macharael does not look like any other minmitar battleship hull.new models would be kind of cool. now i will support this idea. except for the microtransacion part.i know eve is ccp's cash cow, i just wish they didn't treat the player base like the udder.i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"this, basically.i have been clamouring for customizeable ship colours on the old boards for years. i stopped last summer. the thought of needing to pay extra for a basic feature such as this in a sub-based game is simply ridiculous and instantly took away any interest i had in it. aside from that, according to a recent video blog, custom ship colours are coming as part of the so-called v3 initiative that redoes all current ship models (started out with the scorp a while ago) and allows them to modify ship colour easily on a shader level. i guess model distinction will be upheld through those same shaders.good news, that, but if they go the nex store way, i sure as hell hope there'll be an option to turn off display of this sad travesty."
"i've only spent a small portion of my eve life living and working in low sec.much of that time i never really felt threatened weather i was doing industry related things or missioning. its lowsec. i know for a fact that theres something fundamentally wrong with that. even as indy person i expect more pew and danger then that in low sec.i hope some of these changes if implemented will help with that."
"also, the instant obsolescence of seven years worth of documents, blogs, videos, bookmarks, podcasts, notes, and memories. there are a lot of routes i know by heart. renaming half the systems because some people find them hard to pronounce would mean that i'd have to relearn those routes and unlearn the old ones that would confuse me."
"i'm pretty sure they'd update automatically.i certainly don't support renaming those systems that have funny but sensible empire names. i still do mind the random names in 0.0 . how about allowing corporations to suggest a name for a system that hasn't got one yet once they have held sov and an outpost in the system for 6 months or more and built some upgrades? (ccp'd still have to check names for appropriateness)"
"or we could just stick with what we have, because its fine plenty of ways to get around mispronunciation have already been given."
"most 0.0 players i know are as attached to our system names as highsec players are to jita."
"i guessed as much - actually, let's get rid of both nao! ;)ott, i wouldn't want to force anybody to rename their home, but i imagine it could be an incentive for space holders that invest into upgrading their space to \"leave a mark\", so to speak."
"i have been zipping around low sec and 0.0 for many years and either using the first three letters broadcasting has never failed me, if i am unable to get it 1'st time i just ask the fc for a repeat.not supported."
"yup, still have fond memories of getting the **** kicked out of me in nol and j-l ... spent some time in 1dh toofor those of you who care ... nol-m9 and j-lpx7 (can't remember the rest of 1dh off hand though). haven't been there in years, but still have the names burned into my memory..."
"*bump* because i'm stubborn"
"it's a good idea and i even like the secret auction part of it. i would like to see a healthy competition with other missioners and have agents only spawn so many missions every hr at given intervals. this will help spread missioners out and will also make planning multiple missions viable in a single system. i would also like to add that multiple mission 'arcs' be made in to mini epic arcs and have the difficulty ramped up on those missions. maybe to be like mini incursions where you'd need 2-3 people to be able to survive it.i would also like to see incursion like mission spams where a constelation might have an angel invasion and missions in that area increase in frequency and intensity, spawning only angel kill missions, drawing more missioners to that area.i would like to see having kill missions spawning on lowsec/hisec (0.1-0.7) fringe systems making the harder kill missions in lowsec only (level 5's) while the easiest are only found in highsec (level 1-2's). mining and hauling missions trading between the higher sec (0.8-1.0) with the random acception for greater rewards.changes like this might make me actually want to try to mission again, dynamic pve would be so much more exciting.note: always copy your post before pressing the buttonmmos come and go, but eve remains. -garresh-"
"quick side note to the silent auction, it must have a max payout listed in the mission discription interface so that players don't super overbid in the hub's. also i can see a massive ability to grief missioners, by bidding 1 isk on every mission so that you get every mission in a system. any ideas to fix this, if not the silent auction will have to go and it'll be first come first serve.mmos come and go, but eve remains. -garresh-"
"i like the basic idea of mission distribution like the games freelancer and the x series.i don't like the idea that the one who clicks faster, gets a mission, let it stay on a per player base and everything will be fine."
"why not? but i think missions on the board might not have to be recognizeable as epic ones before accepting, instead players might encounter some kind of complication on the mission that allowed them to branch into an escalated epic mission. conventional agents, on the other hand, would still offer epic missions as part of the storytelling and factional advancement they offer.while it makes sense to spawn certain mission types selectively (just as difficulty and rewards should be adjusted to system sec), i'd rather see the likelyhood of such missions being spawned increased in those locations. there should *always* be a chance to get \"lucky\" and find an atypical type of mission/difficulty/reward. missions on the boards always show payout and maybe a bonus for expediency, as well as a collateral. the collateral is subtracted when you offer your bid and payed back either if someone else has outbid you for or at successful completion. your default bid is the payout offered in the mission, but you can bid to do the mission for a lower reward. if you want to do the mission for no reward, you may do so. expect rewards in that station to go down significantly if players complete missions for free!this should really not be much of a problem. idle bidding is discouraged by the collateral and the fact that you can only have a limited number of active missions. while they can be aborted, you lose the collateral and incur a standings loss, and aborted missions return to the board right away.of course, teh goonz can and will grief that, but they will only be able to do so very locally, as missioneers are not in any way restricted in moving to another station/system/constellation, indeed they will have to move about in order to maximize their profits. more interestingly, pirates might keep track of accepted missions (especially high-collateral ones with valuable cargo!) at a station and set up ganks correspondingly!indeed. forum slaps me soundly every time i forget!"
"that's actually why i included the bidding option. it brings a certain competition to mission running, but avoids depending success on faster clicking. instead, missioneers will compete by undercutting each other, as it should be."
"problem:when you have the client stretched over multiple monitors, certain windows end up split between the monitor and players are unable to move them. for example the options window when you push escape, is straddling the two monitors, making it hard to use and read. also windows such as the damage notification texts, or \"we're going to destroy you!\" kos messages end up in unfavorable positions.proposed solution:have these unmovable windows adjust with the center of camera. for instance i run the client on two monitors, i have my camera centered in the right one, with my overview and all sorts of other windows in the left one. these problem windows should shift to the right along with the center of my camera."
"simple request:add tier one battleships to marauders.add tier two battleships to black ops.t1 marauders: ships like the dominix are amazing ratters. damage type versatility, etc. navy domi is a great example.t2 black ops: i don't know .. frigs and cruisers both have 2 hulls. why not battleships? t1 for utility / bridge, t2 for damage / warp cloaked.[u]i <3 logistics:[/u] pilot of all t2 logi and my shiny archon [deceased.] also a chimera which may or may not be horrid. i don't make games, i play them. i get that ppl are passionate about change. i post here to plant seeds. you see your idea as is? holy **** you win! so let's post, and see what the devs and our peers use."
"why?"
"fore easier carebearing in 0.0, what else? there is no role for additional bo's or marauders (if there was in first place) and ccp pointed that out."
"they already are scannable cosmic signatures in highsec. the lowsec statics make lots of sense; frig pvp enthusiasts use them constantly, and they really are last remaining bastion of lowsec frig fighting.seylinn and oicx, in particular, are hotspots for frigate fighting in plexes:"
"this.there is no need to remove it. there is a lvl 4 now, where you can enter pocket 2 only with a key.make it:- bound key to that one gate (not transferable)- dont let a keyholder respawn as long there is someone in the whole plex (either staging area or final pocket)- dont make the final target respawn in the final pocket as long there is someone- escalate the final room, if someone is staying in there for longer then 10 minutes or so (after taking out the final target) - like with 25 cruisers at once- make the spawn of keyholder/final pocket random - as it now seems people stay in there on perma running shields, turning on their alarm clock and come back after 90 minutes or so for the final spawn and its good."
"since these are mean't to be 'new player' experiences, why can't ccp build in a system that only players under x days old can enter them, make it like the ship restrictions you get in ded plexes?"
"one of my fellow explorers has a route that takes him through past six of these places, and he has timers for each so that he knows just when to arrive to get the respawn.more randomization would be a good thing in eve."
"make it so. and ffs, don't make them spawn right after dt - randomize them thoroughly!ot@floppie: what happened to your character picture?"
"[url]"
"one of the most interesting parts of this game, compared to other games, is exploration and the implementation of various and realistic rare phenomena at space, that you can explore at your own risk, getting the feeling you're truly lost in space. one thing that makes it really interesting is the worthy stuff you find there. but i think the most atractive part of these sites is that they pose a challenge. players can test themselves at them, specially at whs. but the biggest challenge of living in space is the environment itself. you may be at the strongest ship ever built, in an epic battle against others, but if just a nearby star decides to go supernova, you're screwed. if an area is dominated by exotic radiation, no stargates or cynos can lead you there; you'd probably die instantly if you could go. that's what happens with some named regions of the eve star map.this is when i encountered violent wormholes and spatial rifts at mission sites. for if you don't know what they are, these are their descriptions:- violent wormhole: \"though the wormhole seems stable, the exotic radicals pouring from the tear imply that using it would be catastrophic\"- spatial rift: \"a natural phenomena that rumour says will hurtle those that come too close to faraway places. wary travelers stay away from them as some that have ventured too close have never been seen again\"those are both large collidable objects, but apart from their nice looking, they don't interact with you (except forthe violent wh, which damages you over time). so, i though they could be mixed with the \"natural challenge\" idea, and here's it:these objects suggest they lead to a very dangerous place, due to their nature. so, they could be found through scanning, as cosmic signatures, fitting into the \"unknown\" type. you can find them as you find normal whs; you can jump through them. but on the other side, you'll find a very different kind of wh-space: one which is dominated not by sleepers or pirates, but by natural, dangerous phenomena. in the map, these \"unsafe systems\" would be the proximities of black holes, pulsars, or very active nebulae, or just space-ripping rifts. you'll be saying \"those are already at wh-space, and do interact with you\", which is right, but not realistic: if a small laser turret can kill you, why not a whole star pouring radiation?you could find these dangerous places though violent wormholes -that wouldn't hurt you by themselves- and/or spatial rifts. for added variety, each of them could lead to differet kinds of unsafe-space; for example, violent whs would lead to systems dominated by black holes, pulsars... and would be harder sites, while spatial rifts could lead to interstellar/intergalactic space, dominated by emptyness, but also by hard-hitting nebulae/cold or whatever designers were inspired to add; these sites could be easier (but could also be the contrary). both sites would be single systems and could be found at known and wh space; no unsafe-space web like with whs. as them, spatial rifts and violent whs could dissapear eventually, but inside these sites, new ones would be opened like happens inside wh space, leading to... who knows? could be known or wh space...so, after that wall of text, what would be the point of risking your ship there?? well, there you could find even rarer ores, deep space ice, gas, lost devices, substances or even being able to do \"sun mining\", that would be getting antimatter/dark matter generated near these active objects (this part has been suggested at another topic). in the meanwhile, your ship would be affected by the environment in various forms, apart from just getting damaged over time. examples: asteroids/ice storms were the smaller the ship, the lesser the chance of being hit; radiation pools were tank is required; or even black holes truly sucking you, etc. different loadouts and fitting would be required at each location, adapting to the challenges.if natural resources are good enough (i'm liking the sun mining thing more and more), players could stablish their pos there, if these systems never close, only the ways inside. nullsec rules would also apply there, for id<U+FFFD>f someone wants a even more epic battle.for ending, the point of this stuff is to make players not feel like the kings of space, since space itself is always above them... while atracting them with worthy things. adding the new nebulae, would look even better.well, that's all. please let me know what you think, what you'd like, what you wouldn't, etc. fly safe! :)"
"other factors:not conductive to my preferred playstyle.low sec: empty, boring, no markets to speak of. not worth the trouble.null sec: membership required.(that's my perception. i might be wrong, of course)"
"too few options for lonewolf play - that includes the use of second accounts.necessity is the plea for every infringement of human freedom. it is the argument of tyrants; it is the creed of slaves. - william pitt"
"this idea isn't a complete write-off, but your proposals of how this would be implemented, and the type of commands you would issue is far too complex. in some cases it even undermines the functionality of the game. in a crew-driven environment (which i can see eve steering into way...way down the line at some point) this functionality may even be a massive benefit. here is a concept of spaceship command that i think you are trying to convey:"
"plus imo it would deepen immersion, making the player a bit more like the in-game pod-pilots who are directly jacked into their ships.in addition to the need for disabled assistance as mentioned before, there are other health and safety aspects -- think of how much carpal tunnel this would prevent! (and yes, i've used siri, and yes, it is cumberson but still helpful especially when multi-tasking such as when flying a spaceship).the accuracy of voice recognition isn't just good now ... it's fracking awesome ... in a loud room, lot's of noise, both apple and windows phone voice recognition get it right 98% of the time now for me.the hooks would need to be built into the game of course ... not like dragon naturally speaking or a generic control interface. bots? maybe they'll use it ... but they already do have their hooks directly into the data stream.don't really like the idea of setting up macro's, since eve doesn't allow that and it would change the game ... but simple commands equivalent to mouse commands, yeah, that would be cool in my book."
"want to make low sec more enticing to high sec? increase the gate guns damage by about 50%. guaranteed success to get high sec people into low sec more often, and will probably end up browsing the belts/exploring more often in low sec in the process.people being able to easily tank the gate guns in a 0.4 system and able to do a large gate camp on said gate makes me not want to go into low sec unless i'm specifically in the mood for a fight, which doesn't happen often since it also means i'm ready to lose a ship."
"ccp has stated that it will be tweaking/revamping faction warfare soon enough. this is one of the largest defining elements of low-sec space. with an improved faction warfare model (which yes, lets you pvp militia targets without penalties), we can hopefully see some of the high-sec players divvy up their allegiances a little and find new life breathed into low-sec."
"when is the next csm election and what are the current rules for participation as a voter and/ or as a candidate?"
"and i am completely against your idea of renaming systems because you don't know how to read. nuff said... =pat least i didn't put in the idea of one of my corpmates to include nipples through shirts and wet t-shirt contests in stations..."
"i never said the systems should be renamed. . . . maybe you're thinking of someone else?nuff said."
"i am...my apologies...lol you know how to read better than me it seems."
"saint john, i wouldn't know..."
"this thread needs a bump. it is one of the few threads on these forums that is actually worth the space it takes on the forum server."
"since leaving a corp or alliance to escape a war dec is legal, i don't see why it should not apply when it comes to saving towers, as long as it's done a way that is legal and within the rules of the game,"
"i gather concordokened insurance payouts are rumored to be gone from sisi. while i'm aware there may be ways around this (get killed before concord arrives, for one), how - if at all - would this affect the proposed bounty system?(also *bump* - shouldn't let this one rot on page two anytime soon!)"
"shouldn't affect the proposal at all. the ship/modules destroyed payout stands at 25% because of alt-killing insurance, which isn't affected by the sisi change. that's the only impact insurance has on it."
"who here doesn't know that tech 2 salvage only comes from1. tech 2 ships2. faction ships (one out of a dozen or hundred of nullsec spawns)3. officer ships (many people have never seen these in years of playing the game)yea.... they are allot rarer. any pubes take them down recently for salvaging?making tech 1 salvage turn into tech 2 would decrease supply of one for the other, and bring prices much closer to one another,"
"this could use some more visibility, i think."
"i support this, it gel into the current system of repairing a player with global flag making you flagged too.come on csm, it's about time this was fixed!!"
"bumping for awesomeness...hopefully the pos changes this winter make this thread obsolete...only time will tell."
"i agree with you that eve needs to provide opportunities for solo play in both pvp and pve, as there are a lot of people who like to do things on their own, be independent, or whatever you want to call it. trying to force people who enjoy this play style into joining up with other people probably won't work, so all you can really do is provide opportunities for them to do things with others if they feel like it (and maybe incentives for doing so). for me personally i spend my time in a mixture of solo and group play - i'm happy to run missions/explore/whatever by myself, but will join up with fleet roams, incursions or mining ops every so often when i have the time and inclination.now, i'm afraid i'm still going to have to disagree on the arenas/matched pvp system. for me, having ccp implement such a system, still goes against the sandbox and the 'lore' of the galaxy. if it's something players want, i still believe they (they players) should create it by forming their own corp(s)/organisations to implement it. again, i'm going to point to rvb as an example of people already doing this sort of thing.one of the things that i really don't like about an arena/battleground system is that it would make it too easy to find fights. too easy? yeah, you heard me. a big part of pvp currently is the process of finding opponents (or prey or victims) - the process of intel gathering, scouting, scanning, roaming ... the decision of how to act on that intel, and what to do when new intel comes in. the point is that you generally have to expend some effort in order to find fights that you/your fleet can manage. of course pvp sometimes comes to you, but then it's the other side that has put the effort in to track you down, and of course the fight is now on their terms ... or is it ... i fear that if getting pvp fights becomes too easy - just a case of joining the nearest battleground/arena queue and waiting your turn - that a lot of \"real galaxy\" pvp will wither and die, especially the intel/scouting side (something i really enjoy doing btw).it's my belief that the plexes in faction warfare were intended to promote some of the more balanced pvp that people are looking for when they bring up arenas (by restricting fights to certain classes of ships). i'm not totally against these as you still have to look for a complex that's occupied, scout out the occupying force to ensure it's manageable, gather intel to ensure that a reinforcement gang isn't waiting in the next system to spring a trap...i guess my point is that pvp in an arena happens in a bubble - there are no consequences to it apart from the loss of a ship, there's very little effort required to find the fight, no scouting or intel-gathering required, and no chance of aything unexpected happening (reinforcements for either side, traps, third-party involvement, etc.). in short, none of the things that make eve pvp so varied, interesting and unpredictable."
"people who say eve is pvp and will always be. did you ever consider it is mainly that way because the people who didn't like that fact quit? while cfo is trying to save the ship in a competitive market of evergrowing mmos they need to do something that can at least somewhat appease both sides. pvpers should be able to pvp if they want as well as people who don't want to shouldn't have to. telling people if they don't like it then don't play is the mentality that has gotten ccp to these subscription numbers."
"if the amount of stupidity present in your post had mass, it would collapse into a black hole and suck the entire universe in with it."
"actually, no. the game being what it is, is what got ccp to the subscription numbers they have now. them not developing the game for 18 months is what caused that number to go down a bit from their peak."
"get the hell out of my sandbox punk."
"while both of these are true on some level, the trouble with it is in doing things like this it's stupidly hard to get things done, and continues to lead to the feeling that ccp needs to cater to these \"small fish\" groups more. if the intention of the game was to foster hundreds of small corporations, there wouldn't be skills in the game to allow for corporations in the thousands. while, yes i was saying that having so many small \"indy\" corps was a bad thing, i don't necessarily have a problem with small corps in general (i do agree, they can be quite fun). it's the \"we're the 10 pilots of super awesome mining corp, inc. and we demand that everyone leave us alone to mine in peace\" mentality that small corporations usually foster i have a problem with. now, if s.a. mining (5-10 man mining corp) looked arount their system, and then started working with \"alpha team combat division\" (5-10 man pvp corp) and \"dynamic heavy industries\" (5-10 man industrial corp) to secure their system from interlopers (say, \"rock bashers mining\", and \"omega squad\"), things are better for everyone. s.a. mining gets to mine (fun for them), dynamic heavy industries gets a reliable source of minerals (maybe even a little below market... more profit = more fun for them), and alpha team gets reliable deliveries of cheaper ships (more 'splosions = more fun for them). the player interaction amongst these three corporations has just led to more fun (and safety) for everyone involved... and what they can accomplish now is significantly greater than what the three corps could do individually. eve is a mmorpg. if you want an engaging/rewarding/easy solo game, you're playing the wrong game. it's that simple. hearing \"i want to play alone, and i don't want to hear anyone say this is wrong\" is no different than someone complaining that the other team is shooting them in dust or battlefield or call of duty... yeah, this is a bit blunt, but you knew that this was a multiplayer game when you downloaded the trial.that isn't to say there are not things that can be done solo -- but that solo players shouldn't expect to get nearly as many nice things as the people who want to work together.you want a \"matchup\" or \"arena\" system? go make it. why does ccp have to give us everything? why can't the players build it themselves?yeah, yeah the alliance tournament is put on by ccp ... but it is a completely different beast in that it is an annual production, and winning actually means something to those who are involved.as for moongoo, you're assuming that the grunts on the frontlines have access to the isk that is generated. sure, alliances will help their guys out (same goes for corps), but the assumption that the grunts on the frontlines have access to all the alliance's wealth is simply flawed. losing 1k ships is still a blow ... even more so if they don't have 1k ships in reserve (because now they need to get new ones which means shipping in minerals, or shipping in hulls, both of which bring the risk of getting caught in a freighter by the other guys)"
"i do like the idea of the sandbox principle, but it also has its flaws. while many peoples sandbox is wanting to mine and be left alone there really is no option to make that happen in said sandbox. therefore it can't be shaped that way."
"what?"
"miner mining wanting no fight... can't happen in sandbox. understand?"
"not fighting absolutely *can* happen in eve for miners or industrialists. they just have to find a system with a low population. if you choose to mine in a system with 100 (neutral) pilots, that's your prerogative. you do not *have* to mine there, in a relatively risky system, but you choose to -- i.e. you getting ganked was your own fault.what miners (and industrialists, to a degree) have to realise is that they are the grease in the larger industrial/military machine that eve is. as has been pretty well shown by the goons in their recent escapades into gallente space, it is *very* easy to throw a spanner into the works, and cause the machine to grind to a halt. that hundred million tritanium you just sold to someone *will* be used to manufacture weapons that *will* be used to cause someone (potentially you) to explode."
"only real solution i can think of is giving cloaks a fuel bay that can only be filled in stations or ship maintenance bays. the afk cloaking will likely be addressed someday, but i wouldn't count on it being soon. seriously, rat in fleets and run different anom's at the same time if your that concerned about cloaky mcafk. sure someone is losing some isk/hr and another is gaining, but why are you in 0.0 with other people if your not willing to play the game with them."
"so, covertly jump into a jammed system, and (not so) covertly blow up the jammer to not covertly bring in an invasion fleet?"
"look dude, you're really barking up the wrong tree with your own assumption in regards to fail, and you're not the first carebear to think he was intellectually special and expect special courtesy on the forums or in game. your simple pot shots of wit you think are so clever gains you nothing.since you've misunderstood as others have tried to make you understand, is that this game is pvp focused. it has freedoms unlike any other game. it never once proclaims itself a place where we can all get along. they wanted the space is a cold unforgiving place that you can do anything... survive, adapt, endure, profit. out courtesy for newcomers, many \"warnings\" and tutorials were placed to teach and make players aware.i could really care less about your lack of experience... yet, those with such little experience can't possibly expect a game that's been around so long to up and change many long standing game mechanics just for a certain unexperienced player cause, \"his opinion is far more intellectually advanced.\" really? you don't just need a \"welcome to eve\" line insert here... i add, \"welcome to reallity.\" when you produce something with actual thought behind it for a benefit to gameplay of everyone, i'll give you a listen. so far, for someone that professes intellect, you certainly are narrow minded.p.s. i would hardly call my record pvp fail... so, keep an eye out on local. cheers dude :-)"
"ccp makes money off people who hear about 1000+ battles and sov fights and people collapsing alliances with spies, not people who hear about mining or running missions while reading a book."
"my thoughts on hi-sec are here."
"the award for the biggest retard in this thread clearly goes to you.overall besides the flaws the have been pointed out over and over which need fixing empire could profit a lot from making it more dynamic.incursions are a great example, they are not fixed in an location and encourage interaction/rivalry between players. their only downside is probably that the rewards are too high compared to the risks but thats not the topic.the idea someone posted about granting rights for various things in a system to corporations or alliances sounds like an incredible good idea if implemented well. a thing like this would probably work even better for faction warfare. it would add a player driven dynamic of which few enough currently exist in highsec. but then thats currently one of the few things that draws people into 0.0 so if that comes to hs/ls as well thats one less reason for people to go into 0.0"
"after reviewing you pvp record i would certainly not call it fail, impressive number of solo kills which in my small mind is what demonstrates superior game play when compared to most who whine the loudest here in the forums. when i research them i see 10 to 20 people involved in the vast majority of their kills, even 2 people to pod a capsule! you i will keep an eye out for in local i'd be stupid not to, but to the others who need 7, 8, or 9 of their swarm around ..... they are no threat because i'd notice them long before they could rally the courage to do anything. i just have no respect for cowards an i openly admit it.i hope we have many good fights cordo and that i eventually eek out a slight advantage in the you vs me!"
"i want to thank the academy for this award .... having it presented to me by the person is was named after made it so much more special!"
"no, those are highly specialized characters with month/years of training. but ccp is condemned to grow and that you can do only if you dont concentrate on one type of player. mining or running missions sounds boring to one, but for some player who cant commit themselfs for more then 3-4 hrs/week thats all they can afford. its like in politics. with 5000 people you maybe can have a very strict opinion of something. if you grow and have now 5.000.000 people's needs to you have groups of different interests and you need to find a common program."
"a few points though most have already been mentionedwardecs - really need sorting out since the gm's have walked away from the issuemissions - needs more variety and branching storylinesinsurance - it's absurd that it's paid for criminal acts, anyone killed by concord should forfeit paymentstock exchange - iirc ccp looked at this in the early days though nothing exver came of it.bounties - sellable kill rights or private contract for a pod killsmuggling - high risk/reward might help bring some life back to lowseclowsec in the early days used have a number of communities (like villages almost) set up in small pockets and the corps/players would keep their area clean of pirates (or sometime the reverse if set up by pirates). perhaps space is too crowded now to make this work and cap fleets can quickly roll over any opposition.the lowsec problem is that if it<U+FFFD>s made too lucrative the nullsec alliances will simply expand their boundaries on the other hand if it<U+FFFD>s not profitable enough why should anyone from highsec go there (except for pvp). perhaps as an experiment some lowsec systems could have a permanent cyno jammer in place to tempt some smaller corps to set up operations."
"i have don it now for an extended time and the more i did ........changing mining in high sec would indicate changing it from the scrap.so why not change mining all together let<U+FFFD>s take a look on the economy of the game. from the understanding of a self-sufficient player driven economy circle the game is pillared on: 1. mining (ore, pi, moon, recycling)2. production3. market for the sole purpose to supply in one or other way: 4. pvp some call a sandbox i rather call it an economic simulation placed in hostile environment. set the notations beside let<U+FFFD>s focus on 1 mining in the relevance of a self-sufficient player driven economy; the retrieve of raw materials. i combine here moon mining, planetary interaction and ore mining under the terms of rme, raw material extraction. whether this is form moon materials, pi,or ore mining. i explicitly leaf out rme trough recycling (drones and modules) as it would well exceed the size of the proposal.a brief history of ore mining in the game:in 2003 it seems appropriate for a new game to adapt to the general play style of almost any mmp games at the time with some sort of mining. the economy of eve evolved during the last 8 years and being more dedicated to other materials than the basic ore mining.to my consideration and in the progress of economical evolving the present ore mining has become outdated and therefore obsolete. i focus hereby strict on the cost (investment, maintenance) and reward point of viewcost/ reward scheme: 1.moon mining (low and 0.0.) high cost 2. pi (all) median to low cost 3.ore mining (all) low cost with pi you set up your factory<U+FFFD>s and take in the profit with no risk to the installation.with ore mining there is just an initial expense of the exhumer and non-other than a gank. as for pi there are possible implements on the way to rise the rist/cost factor which will give it a more realistic place within the simulation (sandbox) by private owned custom offices and a possible role in a future dust involvement. leaves mining ore as a classic rme with only some little changes ever since. however it contains no real cost factor to run a mining operation and take the profit. no fuel cost (exept the rouqual). the other factor is, ore mining as today can be done semi afk ore full afk which is not in the sense of the game. however the action of mining itself commands doing it in afk moode or at least semi afk. even the godfather of mining halada postulated in his well lauded mining guide: <U+FFFD>staring for a sustained time on the mining laser will have you end up in the psych ward.<U+FFFD> he was seriouse on it!whilst two of the rme<U+FFFD>s, moon mining and pi are for a good reason mostly automated processes, ore mining isn<U+FFFD>t, but should be! as a side effect: a bot on a moon pos, a bot on a pi installation are obsolete and ineffective as the material retrieving processes is already automated and only need attention requirement to restart the process. of course you can place a bot to do some steering but as for pi, the available resource amount change and therefore require player attention. similar could apply to ore mining. a proposal:no more asteroid belts in any system as known. player driven mining and refining colonies the source:1. ore belts around a complete planet and not just some rocks somewhere in a system. once mined, the roids re-spawn on in-calculable time and size. some death nuts are amongst them.2. ore asteroids are of significantly size revealing its ore similar to pi. i prefer 1 as better since there already is pi. the equipment:a pos similar mining colony means with the profit coms the expense. the excavators are operated from the mining pos. small medium and large determine the amount of excavators. yes, they can be installed on high sec planets with a significantly lower resistance than a low sec or 0.0 mining-colony. they are simpler to set up and faster to be demounted as the regular pos, and as such more mobile. the calculation:base calculation can be the amount mined by any human operated vessel in the belt for a max of 2 hr. i personally think this is the max time one can pay attention to it without slipping in some sort of hypnosis. afk mining is not considered in estimation! 8.000m<U+FFFD> volumes could be the amount of one excavator for 24hr. as the excavator can run just like a moon harvester or a pi installation, adjustable from one to 24 hr. the mining-colony can be upgraded to do refining jobs. the excavators run on time by damage, just like mining cristals new player modus.since mining is a source of income for new players:civilian mining excavators with a loading capacity of 600m<U+FFFD>/24hr. ore shall be transported to player owned mining colonies for refining or saled dirctely on the market. i expect the fast majority of the mining community will dismiss this proposal but again, i do believe attention should be paid to the fact any action in the game supporting afk and watch your favored tv show in the meantime, is not what the game is design for, any action within the game obsoleting the request of direct attention is an open door for botting and thus should be left to automated processes in first place. assumable, big alliances will not go for this proposal just as they state unanimously they don<U+FFFD>t have any bots running in their hidden 0.0. systems, but it is illusive to buy into this argument, the temptation is just too big! so, more time to actually play the game and lifting ore mining in a more realistic market situation equal to moon mining and future pi. on a second thought may even attract to a better use of low sec."
"tengen saninteresting ideas you have voiced here. having mined for longer then 2 hours in a large grav site and belts in general initially i think your extracted ore amount is far to low.putting all the ore around 1 planet would just increase ganking and miners are not going to be in favor of that at all i would suspect. the easy way in which ice fields have been interdicted proves that beyond a doubt.more mobile mining pos is an interesting concept but most miners are not going to set up a pos for 30 minutes before they can mine for just 2 or 3 hours not very reasonable or practical. now an ore belt that encompassed an entire system like a ring where you had to keep moving to target with scanning skills rocks worth mining would increase player interaction while not concentrating miners into nice neat little target clusters and would make it far more difficult to automate.mining was one of the first group activities i participated in in eve and it created lasting bonds, why that is reviled in an mmo eludes me.seems like a rorqual with a temporary force field projector that burned fuel could accomplish a lot of what a more mobile pos could be tasked to do. because this might actually stimulate more group play i wonder were the howls of no way are going to come from?somehow a roving band of orcas, hulks, retrievers, and race specific mining frigates, destroyers, and cruisers would be a site to see with a rorqual trailing behind them or in the center of the mining op to process and compress the ore seems like a move in the right direction to reduce the bot ability to out mine humans and to get players to fly their rorquals outside of their pos forcefields while interacting with more players.i think your idea has merit but i am not sure the plus will out weigh the minus without careful calculation.of course i would implement this ability in all segments of space from high sec empire to null including wh space."
"i like the sound on the test server - sounds like something out of a factory. great mining sound imo"
"dont pay for it then. let other people waste their money."
"no. it'll make the server work harder for no good reason, provide no benefit to players, and will make this game look, well, stupid."
"disclaimer:this is not a good old day threadi never did much nano, during the time i mostly flew locus zealots (60km pulses were win)this wont be a return to 10k sacreliges or 17k machariels taking no missile damagethis thread asumes that t2 is a good thing, or at least more people flying it is a good thing because:a. it gives old players reason to spend isk and use there sp b. gives new players something to aim forc. this will create more reason to fly different types of gangi imagine this will create much whining but here is why i think t2 and cruiser/frigs need a balanceat the moment there is a massive blur between battlecruisers and ships in smaller hull sizes this has lead to the fotm being drakes and hurricanes as i'm sure you have all noticed. they are too good at killing takle and too powerful vs heavy assault ships. guardians and zealots with afterburners sig tanking is what we've been reduced too and i rarely even see that these daysthere are few t2 ships that can really beat bc-especially drakes as medium range has become king. the battlefield has become greatly shortened as pure speed died the inability to cover allot of ground quickly is gone, new combat probes also add insult to injury to this problem.i belive medrange ships definatly have there role just as they did during nano but a greater mix of fleet comps is desperately needed to breathe a bit of life to pvp in eve.so number one: instead of giving web bonu's improve webifiers as a whole giving them 20% boost in strength, re: yay gallente and huggins. this will make very closerange ships more viable as they have more pure takling power, in combination with the new scrams this would be a very powerful combination, aswell as better disrupting guardian blobs and suchsecondly: increase speed of all cruiser hulls by 20% give t2 mwd's 5% more speed and faction10%, also make faction nanofibres add more agility and faction overdrives add an extra 1% speed (people will spend isk for stupidly small bonus's) give destroyers and below 25% increase in speedlast but not least give interceptors back there role as fleet warpins, recreate the most enjoyable and exiting role interceptors have had (charging towards 200 man sniper bs fleet with hope!) by nerfing combat probes making the scan time roughly 5 mins or so max skilled (people running anoms and such will still be easily catchable)what this means in real termsa single nano vagabond will go from rougly 2700 ms to 3400ms before overload. fully faction fit around 3770ms a dual nano crow gistii fit will go from 4560 to 5536 before overload drakes will still be vastly powerful and viable, as will sig tanking logistics will have a much tougher role of staying in range of fleet, bringing back the days of pulling people away from guardians and such quickly and making scimitar piloting ******* hard (but fun)!negatives i can see: finer balance issues need to be adressed, but i think they need to be adressed anyway. reserved for peoples issuesthis does not adress the issue of commandships which i think is more a case of pure boost but thats for another thread, as is offgrid bonus and suchrage button on!"
"i like nano shipsgood times."
"increase scan time to 5 minutes??? that's pretty ridiculous... and needs some serious justification. i think your trying to limit the ability of a fleet to quickly warp on top of another fleet. but i think your suggestion is way out of line: perhaps increase it to 30s scan time, but not 300s, that just eliminates combat scanning. wouldn't increasing the minimum warp-to distance from 150 to 250 be better? (although a lot of people would find their gate tacs useless). as for your speed boost. i agree that the speed difference between bs, bcs, cruisers, and even frigs could use a review. but that is massive game changing stuff, and needs to be done carefully. i honestly think, the speed boost from an ab should be larger, but the speed nerf of a web needs to be more pronounced. mwd's are more-less balanced."
"did you think that response through at all? how are they going to autoupdate spreadsheets and youtube videos?"
"tell you what sir. you come up with a list of, what, 2000 unique names for all the systems in eve that are all easy to pronounce and i'll fully support this idea. please post your list here so we can all see them. i expect to see something by wednesday. - iella"
"or the names we give them:for example, nearly everyone in irc refers to 4lne-m as \"four line\". it's not hard to say, and everyone knows what you mean, including the non-native english speakers. e-byos is referred to as\"ebay\" by most of my corpmates, though in alliance fleets it's normally just \"eb\".honestly it doesn't matter what the name is as long as everyone you need to communicate with knows it by that name. names are an arbitrary human convention. pick one and stick with it."
"following that convention ... i remember \"tpar-g \" being referred to as \"trap\" (never flew there myself though)."
"sorry, i guessed i made the part i was referring to clear by underlining it in your quote. i was lazy and, apparently, wrong."
"made a random 'i wish' in another thread where that was all people were doing, and it was suggested i post as a proposal so here goes.#8posted: 2011.11.02 22:57 | report2to join the general 'how i like to play' i would like to be able to rent a system from the factions, pop in a station, drop a few pos's on the moons, stick some custom houses on the planets and do my care bear thing.for the rent i'd like some faction police about, with options for pirates (and that's pvp players) to evade them, but make it hard and allow me to build up the gate defences. also would need minimum faction standing of say sec status +5 to rent.maybe even increase sec status if numbers grow and peace becomes the norm in a system, but that needs space to grow with new systems in null as well. not to happen in faction war areas though where while that needs work, should be for the militias to fight it out.yes i'll need to run the gauntlet moving my goods, yes i won't be as safe as hi sec, yes at first i'll be raising a big kick me sign for all local roaming gangs. but so what, it would be fun and give me a path to null"
"if you're aiming for null, why not just rent some null space?anything that brings npcs in to look after space you're claiming for yourself is bad. you want it, you defend it."
"another post where the op is simply stating his 'how i want to play' unfortunately. you have to look at the bigger picture and think about how other players are playing the game. eve is not a system defense game. you can't just build a nest somewhere, throw some isk around, and expect everyone to fly around you whilst you do your awesome thing. and if every high sec player did this the game would need thousands of extra low-sec systems. like the poster above me is saying, join and alliance, get some contacts, talk to people and rent a system in null. that is what my corp and alliance is doing at the moment and it took a long while to sort out. but this is what eve is all about, collaboration. its not just about making the game awesome for solo high-sec capsuleers with too much isk and not enough risk."
"nice to see the expected comments. what i want (and yes if you read the post it was me commenting somewhere else on a 'how i want to play' post) is a stepping stone out to null. and no i don't want to join some massive established alliance or pay rent when in null space.i would still need to defend what i had in low sec, but with some security, but a lot less than concord.at the moment it's a cliff face drop from hi to low, which is one of the reasons it is so empty.i do love the 'join up and become a part of a big group' lines. not everyone in this game wants that and those same people usually complain about hi sec care bears who never leave it. all i'm suggesting is a way where there is more risk, and some extra gain, to entice smaller groups out of hi sec. without something just expect hi sec to stay as it is and get busier everyday, but with graduated risk/reward options people would move out."
"so...you want npc 0.0 then? i hear stain is nice this time of year."
"it has been a little while since i have been in the 0.0 game so can you confirm that:1)0.0 now has npc navies/gate guns to help out pod pilots2) 0.0 is no longer controlled by established alliancesseems to me that any player/corp/alliances that is using npc to help them defend thier space and/or doesnt want to be a part of a comp. alliance/nap isnt really wanting a stepping stone to 0.0...... unless 1 and 2 have been put in the game while i was not looking."
"nope, as i said low sec. although the same could work there in npc 0.0, but they are generally a bit small for that and it starts getting too close to sov"
"well as i haven't said this was sov in low sec, but rather renting from a faction as a stepping stone to carry on building to move out to 0.0, i can't see what you are getting at.0.0 should rightly be what you can take and hold through your own might, with no convinient security force to help you. hi sec is minor holdings on planets and pos, with the full might of concord to protect you.low sec should allow for something in between where the sov is still the faction, and supplies some security, but players can control more and have to bolster the security to protect assets."
"1)all of eve is based on what you can take and hold by your own might.2)concord does not protect you. concord only provides consequences for the rapists.3) lowsec already does what you say it should. even if 1 and 2 were not true, your proposal does not do what you say.by increasing npc protection you move the \"stepping stone\" closer to being high sec. this means that there is a larger \"jump\" to 0.0. so you are not doing anyone who wants to go from high --> 0.0 any favors by making things more (relative to now) safe.now if this is a \"low sec is too hard\" thread at least be man enough to admit it."
"in that case, why didn't you post it as a proposal but as a random wish?with your \"i would like tos\" and \"maybes\" thrown in, people here are not likely to take this seriously but as a welcome bait for trolling and name-calling. i believe you might serve your idea better if you proposed a clear and concise change and illuminated what previous discussion came up with as both advantages and disadvantages. that way, you'd let readers make an informed decision whether they want to support the proposal or not.sorry if that sounds patronizing, but it grates terribly how good proposals everybody agrees on end up on page 2 after a couple of days by vague ideas that are discussed heatedly."
"given the recent rabble against the csm, we need a way to verify if an account voted or not. to stop the flood of 'i didn't vote for csm!!!! they do not represent me!!' threads, i propose the following:when an account votes in the next elections they are marked as either: voted abstained from voting for a candidate in consequence this will give 3 states an account can have for a period of the csm: voted abstained from voting for a candidate no marker what will this change?i believe this is a fair solution because people who voted will be represented by their candidate and those with no fitting representative can opt for the abstention option to show a lack of representation.this gives everyone a voice and is a huge improvement compared to the last elections, because with the actual mechanics there is no chance to participate without casting a vote to someone who might end up in charge but doesn't represent you.additionally this is a huge improvement for the poor souls that deal with feedback regarding the csm and its actions because they will be able to tell if someone spend at least some time checking out the candidates or just didn't care and start whining for no reason.who should support this proposal?everyone, because space democracy only works if as many as possible participate!those that did not vote in the recent elections because they had no suitable candidate!"
"i'm not sure you want to distinquish between voting for someone and voting abstain."
"this is intended as a marker to differentiate the between people that voted for a candidate (because he bought their votes, they believe in him, be made great promises), the ones that look through the candidates but simply don't find one suitable (enough) and last but not least all the ones that suddenly wake up and realize their vote might have had a meaning and now cry about how unfair it the mechanic is.right now everyone can claim to not have voted because there was no option to participate without voting a candidate. so people without a suitable candidate were forced to not vote at all or risk electing some moron who might end up in the csm."
"i'm just saying that not everyone wants to display that to the world. if nothing else, make it so it's something which the user himself can choose to display.i.e. by default, don't show if anyone voted, but if they so choose, they can choose to show if they voted or didn't vote, and if they voted, choose between showing whether they voted for a person, voted abstain, or maybe even voted for a particular person if they so choose.otherwise, chances are people are going to use this in completely unrelated discussions as a basis for ad hominem attacks."
"it's not a bad idea...i do see a problem with it in that everybody i voted for didn't win. so even to me showing that i voted means jack ****. either way...it doesn't negatively effect me and i cannot see how it would negatively effect anybody else...so...+1"
"while i understand your thought process, its one of those things that would have to be optional, basically as zim described. just a cautionary, but imo necessary, step."
"right now a pilot must upgrade every time after they die. this is very annoying, especially for the casual players.my suggestion is to make clone upgrading be for a character and not for a specific clone. this means that as long as your sp is below the sp limit you will be able to die over and over, without the need to re-upgrade.i wouldn't even object to an massive increase of the upgrade costs as compensation."
"let me see... nope, all seems correct and in order to me. if anything make clones mroe expensive, it would be good to know that when you kill someone the cost is high."
"agreed, clone prices as they stand are at such a small amount that all you got to do is blow up one or two ships in a lvl 4 mission and you can afford a new one"
"no.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"it's like people don't even bother to read the op and just say whatever first comes to mind...i think the overall idea is sound but i doubt it would work too well. there are those that die a lot that this might greatly benefit and then there are those that die very little that this wouldn't benefit at all. personally i would rather see a system in place that automatically creates the new clone when you die and automatically withdraws the money from your wallet based on the last clone you purchased and where it is located. you would still have to upgrade your clones when needed and if you didn't have the money to purchase the clone then the money is not withdrawn and the clone is not created requiring you to come back and purchase the new clone later.primarily it would be for those of us that tend to forget about our clone when we are podded. thankfully...not too often since even when i do die \"aura\" on my droid phone freakes out at me every 5 minutes telling me to update my clone.to the op's idea however...i can see another option in place. leave the current clone system as is but maybe an option to buy clones in bulk. say increase the cost of the clone by x10 and you get 10 clones of that level ready to go. use all 10 and you gotta buy another 10. same general idea just a little more limited without breaking the current clone system that is in place. this may also create more of an isk sink since there will be many people that buy 10 clones and perhaps never use them."
"so where can i find l4's with 5 million isk ships? ps. after a year, doing l4s is like stabbing yourself in the eye."
"those are definite improvements of the current system, i would be happy to see such things in place."
"you're obviously not having fun. ever consider other games?"
"dread pirate scarlet, of course :p"
"i support this completely. i also have this problem. i would be excited for this change."
"+1 agreed"
"right now in jita there's no compressed ores for sale. the compression efficiencies on the rorqual are terrible compared to many modules. also the fact that you have to compress in lowsec or 0.0 is huge disadvantage.i think we should push to have ccp revisit the rorqual. bring the efficiencies way above any modules also perhaps consider bringing the rorqual to highsec because logistics of the whole thing being in lowsec-0.0 is a big hamper.plentiful compressed minerals on the market benefits 0.0"
"no. the rorqual should never come to hisec.compression of ores is to make it easier to move them from mining location to refining location (also, in w-space, to cram more ore into the refinery array). who cares that they're not in jita anyway?"
"compressed ores are supposed to assist with the miners bringing more ore in less trips from point a to point b for refine. no one who can consider themselves an \"established\" industry player in low- or null- will sell ores, because they should have perfect refine.going out of your way to sel ores on market is like trying to sell an unbuilt car on a car lot. taking it further, if your out in low- or null- with a rorqual, wth are you mining to sell? did no one inform you profit margins are higher to just make a finished product? build some ships and sell them to corp/alliance-mates or on open amrket in low/null, trust me, plenty of fw people will be looking to buy (freaking caldari and minmatar lolfit fleets suiciding deathstar pos's for \"lulz\" makes a great market to sell ships in.)"
"yeah, it's because my bouncy boobies aren't getting in the way i guess."
"all my characters are male...its the wife that has the female characters. =d"
"sadly it looks like ccp is going the other way. judging by sisi the maximum size of busts is shrinking, and the shape now looks much less natural and more like implants.sigh."
"my immersion!my...cellulite?ps: no bouncing moobs."
"the intel channel would not allow players to post in it. it would just say things like \"cearain, entered minor, auga, frigate.\" then when i leave it would say something like \"cearain, exit minor, auga, pod.\" they could have all the intel on who is in what plexes when you first sign in or you might have to wait. either way you will find pvp 10xs faster than you can now.i like the map idea - if the map worked well. however my map always cause major slow downs and crashes in my computer. also there shouldn't be too much of a delay. i don't like alts too much so requiring a bunch of scouting is not really my thing. the idea should be that there are so many fights spread out that there are just constantly pilots jumping in plexes as fast as they can. not the slow ass scout out the enemy form a fleet and then have them dock and ship bs that happens now. btw having this intel channel or map system would make it so spys would be less of an issue.make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"what about if fw plexes were bubbled/no warp out zones?"
"don't get me wrong i support the intel channel idea, if it's an intel channel or nothing then i would take that, i just believe that the same information can be presented in a slightly more user friendly way.i also have problems with the star map, what we need is something much simpler and more focused almost like dotlan but live and specific to faction warfare.the slight delay i would prefer although maybe 5 minutes is to much, you see i enter plexes to provoke a fight or limit the ship classes that i have to fight and a few minutes delay means i can engage people within the current system without the hordes descending on me. however if i am just sitting orbitting a timer then it should leave just enough time for someone to get too me and try to stop me.i am also normally a solo pilot a little bit of the unkown is prbably good for us.regarding bubbles in plexes, i have seen this idea before but i feel it may put people of rather than encourage people to pvp within them and may result in a lot of sniper camping."
"people would probably try to sell their characters that are in the plexes because they would realize without the ability to warp it will take years to get anywhere else. if you mean no one can warp out until the plex is taken that is different. i think the problem there is the pvp will not have the same complexity that is involved when you have to keep someone tackled. it would be a sort of dumbed down pvp.make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"be careful what you ask for. if ccp revisits the war-dec system, they may not just close a few loopholes, but overhaul war-dec mechanics entirely. this may or may not be to your advantage, depending on your play style.also, you forgot the biggest war dec exploit of all ... hiding your isk-earning high sec alts in npc corporations."
"quoting myself from another thread."
"+1would make my life in the hole easier"
"supported"
"since no one brought it up. in the most recent dev blog video they said they will be adding \"pos fuel pellets\", so that you combine the current pos fuels pre-pos and build fuel pellets, which are then a generic fuel you take the pos and drop in.this will make management and planning so much easier for everyone that runs pos, especially for those that run multiple."
"that will be nice."
"really simple; with destroyers getting reduced signature radii, they are basically the same size as electronic attack frigates. this doesn't make much sense (i've seen a sentinel in space right next to a thrasher, and they are not even close to the same size).apologies of these are incorrect, but last i checked the new sig rads will be:catalyst: 65coercer: 62comorant: 68trasher: 56 compare these to the signature radii of the existing eafs (and their t1 equivalents):keres: 55, (t1- maulus, 48)sentinel: 53 (t1- crucible, 46)kitsune: 58 (t1- griffin, 50)hyena: 51 (t1- vigil, 44-- this one is really unfair since one of the bonuses is 3% sig radius as well).please fix this up, it means these little guys (which are probably the least tanked ships in the game) are basically the same sie as destroyers."
"also boost their tank , and maybe give drone immunity to them"
"a reduction in their sig radius, boost to speed, and boost to resists would make the forgotten electronic attack ship a viable option for frigate gangs. +1i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"i'm just wondering, does anyone else agree with the fact that we need new gm's? not once have i ever had a petition that i have put in, resolved in my favor by a gm not only that, but its weeks before i even get a response yes the gm's are more than happy to tell you no, give you some link to some rule, that sometimes has nothing to do with the issue that you are referring to then simply copy/paste pre-written scripts that all basically say, \"i am sorry, i don't care, not going to help you\" in most other mmo's the gm's at least help sometimes and most other gm's at least seem like they care about your issues gm's here are impersonal and just don't care! we are the customers for this great game! i would like to hear from other players on their experiences from gm's most everyone i have talked to have negative opinions of them and most agree, they just don't care pilots of new eden, we must unite and demand better customer service from a company that has liaisons that just paste scripts into windows and don't even want to help us! the whole point of a gm team should be fairness and willingness to help players lets hear your thoughts pilots and see if your opinion of the gm team is as low as mine?"
"i think it's just you, because i've had several favorable replies from the gm team, including the replacement of a flight of ogre ii's that ended up being \"left\" in a mission site due to a server crashi am the one who exists in shadow i am the devil your parents warned you about"
"key steps to getting petitions resolved quickly and hopefully in your favor1; don't petition stuff that totally isn't against the rules/gonna get replaced yes, we understand that you're torn up because you lost your ship because you're bad at the game or don't understand the mechanics no, it's not getting replaced2; don't be all uppity and insulting in your petition, they just gonna ignore it for a week before c/p the shittiest form response they can find and then laugh at your subsequent rage posts and demands to have it escalated3; argue your case seriously, use supporting evidence, precedent and examples- offer proof if you can get it screenshots, video whatever this part can either be incredibly easy or next to impossible due to the fact that a lot of gm's are drooling morons with little understand of the game (hilarious i know, but it's true) this means that it's either going to be easy to convince them with your argument or impossible as they are too stupid to grasp the points you're makingso while petitioning is totally hit or miss depending on which gm you get there are certainly steps you can take in order to maximise your chances of a good resolution"
"no we dont need new ones we need competent ones that can read english and actually do there jobs by knowing the mechanics of eve which 95% of them dont know anything and will just give you the same old answer of \"the logs show nothing\""
"1 i agree, i have never petitioned something as trivial as a ship loss, i don't lose expensive ships, and i don't care about the ships i do lose i can get another if its a bil or under that can be made back in a week or so2 not really uppity, these gm's are just idiots who seem like they don't pllay eve3 no matter what valid points i have argued most gm's just don't care, or understand and i totally think a cactus sitting at a computer in the middle of the dessert has a higher iq than most of these gm's we need some competent gm's playing people who actually play the game not just some high sec carebear who mined their whole career and got the job, or some guy that was a gm on another game as for your final point as i said i haven't really talked to anyone that has a good opinion of gm's in eve so back to my point more customer service, less idiocy and they should have some experience playing the game as a player, not just a forum troll or those useless volunteer guys who chat all day in 'rookie chat' wtb a real gm!"
"and omg so happy that you got your ogre ii's back that is so awesome i'm talking about real petitions not interested in some carebear who lost his drones on a mission and qq'd about it"
"forgive me if i'm wrong but i thought you were supposed to be petitioning things like-not being able to join a fleet ie the game always returns that you have refused the request/are already in a fleet when you aren't-unable to purchase from the market for whatever reason the games says \"you cannot purchase that\" maybe it doesn't see that you're docked, or it thinks you're 57 s away-unable to join chat channels the game says that your chat queue is full or w/e when in reality you may only have 1 chat window openthese are the kinds of things that i though you were supposed to petitionbut if you are crying to the gms (yeah there's no apostrophe, it's plural not possessive) about losing stuff the you are probably not going to get it back face it, you lost it, that's your own faultwhat are you petitioning about that you think it should even matter whether or not the gms play the game?they are supposed to make sure the game is running correctly, and you losing your stuff means that it is running correctly/me gets off her soapbox"
"i do not agree my last 4 interactions with \"regular\" gms and \"senior\" gms went very well, even though in one case i didn't get what i wanted however, they were quick to escalate it when i asked and the senior gm explained the central issue with my request ever since about 2 or 3 months ago, they seem to have begun to coordinating their responses more effectively than in the past some of my corpmates and i even ran a test by submitting petitions under a variety of characters and accounts to see if we were getting the same response we did as long as they keep working hard to coordinate their responses, i'm happy"
"i do agree that the gm's are sometimes rather blunt and ignorant to many issues my best example is before maze was changed i warped in a tengu to one of the rooms this was when the rooms with 12 gates were all organized in a perfect circle my tengu dropped warp dead center of this clusterfuck of gates i got stuck no matter what i did i could not get out needless to say i was killed by the rats and lost my ship petitioned this and was told that there was \"nothing in the logs\" pretty much meaning \"sucks to be you\" what pisses me off the most about this is not only did i lose my tengu, skill points, expensive mods and my dignity but they ******* changed maze a week later to separate the gates out! wtf ccp! all i ask of our gm's is to have some ******* common sense and don't think we are idiots and going to miss the obvious"
"the gms have been quite helpful to me the only complaint i have is that they don't always make it easy to find when they make rules changes, which resulted in me getting warned for something i thought was legal because the rule change was buried in a forum thread"
"or the dreaded \"invisible\" agression counter that everyone knows is there and half of them get taken cared of the other half given the \"diplomatic\" fingerso yeahbut in all honestythe gm's attitude is likely based on the fact 75 to 80% of the stuff they see is just utter tripeand the legitimate cases are overshadowed as a result================ stop the evemail spam!"
"increase the cost of wardecs and add some sort of scaling based on the number of pilots involved in the conflict. hi-sec wardecs are basically economic warfare, so their costs should reflect that. the current fees are way too cheap given how fast you can make 50m isk now with incursions.break the 0.01 isk market game in some fashion. raise the fee to change an order or make the fee scale based on the total value of the market order.do away with region-wide buy orders and make the maximum range only 20 jumps at level v. more niches for the small traders to live in the margins.break the market hubs - maybe add higher fees for putting up market orders in the existing trade hub systems to encourage a migration to the surrounding systems.make the security status of the system have more meaning - such as gate/station guns podding someone who enters 1.0 space if their security status is too low, or preventing wardecs from being allowed in 1.0 systems unless you pay a premium fee for the wardec."
"the point just sailed completely over your head, so let me help you out.i said hear about. i didn't say actually do.people don't sign up to play eve because they can mine or run missions while reading a book. they might in fact play eve that way, but that sort of gameplay is not what gets eve recognition in the press or the minds of the public. what actually gets people playing and talking about eve is the fact that these huge sov battles and spy shenanigans happen. they are integral to keeping people signing up because they represent the public face of the game, the part of it people who don't play eve talk about.in short, the maintenance of this type of gameplay is much more important to growth than any other aspect of the game. this is why we're getting fw changes, because they represented an opportunity to expand that sort of gameplay.on the other hand, improving the experience when mining and mission-running is the key to player retention, since it represents the activities of most of the playerbase. and while i personally have nothing against the current mission setup (except the relative uselessness of l5 agents to the grand scheme of things, it's an idea that simply didn't work as people didn't follow them and lowsec remains as derp as it has ever been), mining needs to be heavily rethought. i haven't seen anything in this thread that really sounds attractive, so i'll instead repeat my usual refrain.under the current system of mining, humans should not allow humans to mine. hulkageddon and the gallente ice interdiction are mercy kills. it's mind-numbingly boring and inane, and must be somehow made more interactive and more profitable if it is to be considered a worthwhile activity. as it stands the only reason it's even remotely worth tolerating is because it's enter belt-activate stripminers-disengage brain. anytime you go \"disengage brain\" in a game, something has gone terribly wrong."
"ngtm1r, i like your insights re: nullsec being the \"glitzy pr engine\" but hisec being the \"retention key\" ... i disagree with you about mining being boring and repulsive however ... achieving a large and efficient mining operation with max skills is quite a satisfying accomplishment to many people ... more so than bored low skilled hooligans or highly skilled old bitters doing the \"derr, warp in with our disposable noob frigates and gank that hulk\" will ever be ... both styles reveal much about the character of those who engage in them ... and in eve, both are free to exist.imo eve is no different from basketball ... some play basketball competitively (nullsec), and join leagues (nullsec alliances).some play basketball with their friends, in the parking lot, just for fun (hisec).a competitive basketball player can come \"play\" in the parking lot with the amateurs, sure (old bitter gankers) ... but it's no glory achievement, and the amateurs will eventually get a clue and leave (safe dock).the competitive players are what people watch.the parking lot games are what most people play.why not keep both happy?"
"you can't.1) a large segment loves the sandbox and that's why they signed up to eve2) another segment signed up to eve but wants segregation, which is the very antithesis of the sandboxthe question is, why did #2 bother to sign up to a sandbox game if all they wanted were private sandpits?"
"assuming not using drones (they die horribly fast, and are slow) ... one can max out at 2646 m3 per minute in hisec. using your 2 hour estimation, that's 317,520 m3. in lowsec/nullsec/w-space, you top out at 2966 m3/minute. using your 2 hour estimation, that's 355, 920 m3. your numbers are far too low, even when comparing to 2 hour segments. limiting yourself to 2 hour segments is also flawed, as there are some people who, given the inclination, will mine for a full day for whatever reason. actually, it is exceptionally useful in station-less systems. i've been known to throw up a tower in a system for a few hours when mining, though generally like to keep it around for the entire weekend."
"exhumetoconsume wrote:you can't.1) a large segment loves the sandbox and that's why they signed up to eve2) another segment signed up to eve but wants segregation, which is the very antithesis of the sandboxthe question is, why did #2 bother to sign up to a sandbox game if all they wanted were private sandpits?i find i'm having to agree with the goons on this one (omgwtf eve is dying!!!) ... to a degree anyway.extended (2+ hours) mining alone for purposes other than \"look, i just wanna kick back and relax\" (or, alternatively, \"dammit, i don't want to fly another 30 jump round trip to get that trit i forgot\") is pretty bad. mining in a group, kicking back and bullshitting is a nice distraction. the fun in eve is wholly generated through player interaction."
"i think that is a seriously excellent idea, which actually would not only benefit high-sec, but null aswell.i would love to see every belt purely full of veldspar or scordite, ore scanners would, instead of scanning a whole belt, scan a single roid and tell you its contents. then as ronan says, you would have to \"mine through\" the low-end ores to get to the high-end ones.i think not only would this be more interesting, but also add a complication that makes botting a fraction more difficult (i'm not stupid enough to think that something like this would stop bots.)on top of ronans suggestions, i would like to suggest that the number of belts in all systems in eve are halved entirely, and the removed half become non-static hidden belts. this could even result in a minor chance someone would consider mining in low-sec if they weren't sitting in a static belt."
"[quote=exhumetoconsume]the fun in eve is wholly generated through player interaction. i like solo play .... but tbh eve is 99% about player interaction. i return to eve because the player base is great. vets who want to shoot me keep me on my toes. imo getting ganked one time by a real human is better then getting a bazillion kills against a program. yeah i might be pissed if i lost a ship but if i made a silly mistake or was distracted it's my fault besides it's just a game. i'll get better and try and hunt down that other player that got me. even the best human vs. machine games get boring. i'll take my chances undocking and getting ganked by a stealthy human over doing the same boring missions 100 times over to make isk or loyalty points.sure i think the penalties should be stiffer on a sliding scale in empire space but ganking has to always be a possibility when you undock anywhere. with dust541 not even a planet is going to be safe! i see that as a good thing. sure i'll get blasted a lot until i get smarter but this game gives me all the time i want to get better and better. so today i am the hunted but it will not always remain that way! i look forward to increasing my trips to null to cause as much damage as the game mechanics will allow see you all in local!"
"temba ronin wrote:[quote=exhumetoconsume]the fun in eve is wholly generated through player interaction. i like solo play .... but tbh eve is 99% about player interaction. i return to eve because the player base is great. vets who want to shoot me keep me on my toes. imo getting ganked one time by a real human is better then getting a bazillion kills against a program. yeah i might be pissed if i lost a ship but if i made a silly mistake or was distracted it's my fault besides it's just a game. i'll get better and try and hunt down that other player that got me. even the best human vs. machine games get boring. i'll take my chances undocking and getting ganked by a stealthy human over doing the same boring missions 100 times over to make isk or loyalty points.sure i think the penalties should be stiffer on a sliding scale in empire space but ganking has to always be a possibility when you undock anywhere. with dust541 not even a planet is going to be safe! i see that as a good thing. sure i'll get blasted a lot until i get smarter but this game gives me all the time i want to get better and better. so today i am the hunted but it will not always remain that way! i look forward to increasing my trips to null to cause as much damage as the game mechanics will allow see you all in local! wait, what?you just went from \"solo walled gardens should be ok\" to \"i like playing with other people\"..."
"wait, what?you just went from \"solo walled gardens should be ok\" to \"i like playing with other people\"...[/quote]no i have said from day 1 that ccp should appreciate all styles of play ..... \"solo play\" should not be the dirty family secret about uncle willie. when i build ships, invent bpcs, or do pi that is solo play ...... at least until dust541 comes online ..... i want the option to do both or either depending on my mood and the time i have to be online. if you think because i want stiffer penalties for ganking means all i want is a walled garden it's not worth it to argue with you imo. the way the game mechanics work now it seems like we have a one size fits all crimes model which imo is inadequate and not reflective of a real risk vs reward model. i do not pretend to be an expert and engage in the forums to express my opinions and see if my ideas can fly when tested by other players who have different points of view an experience levels. i come here to learn and become a better player because frankly my ego is large enough where i don't need to only champion popular points of view and get automatic pats on the back from an alliance contingent."
"i seem to have noticed something recently that i do not remember happening before.i lock onto about 6-9 targets and send out my drones and start firing.as the screen gives me my messages of my drone damage, my damage, and the info from enemy damage, those messages now seem to overlap at the base of the locked target icons. if there are enough of the, you can no longer see the distance to target in the locked target icon. you have to use the overview window with it.is it possible to move the messages down by about 1 line or so."
"file this one as a bug report, you'll get the problem fixed faster"
"i htink that generally the gaps between speeds of the ship sizes does need to be made larger, maybe not by much but someting like the op says may be in order, maybe a bit less."
"no, definitely don't kill the scan time on probes. remember that some people use them to explore too, 5 min to scan would kill probing. i can scan an entire site in <5 min now, that change would make it take the better part of 30 min to lock down a single site. and don't kill on-grid warps either, many people use them for legitimate purposes too.i think the simplest solution would be to make it so you can't lock anything completely when it's less than 100k km from you or so. so anyone wanting to make a fleet warp to a sniping fleet will first have to drop probes, then warp away to a celestial, then scan, then warp over to the targets. this will give sniper fleets plenty of warning to warp off if they choose to disengage."
"if you think the only use for combat scanner probes is scanning down your fleet while in battle, you don't do anything else with probes and shouldn't be recommending a sweeping change to their functionality without considering all the issues."
"because sniper fleets should get a free pass rather than take risks.why have i seen this attitude about snipers several times lately? \"we should make it so they can always escape by preventing fleets from easily landing on lazy snipers.\""
"i'm not saying give them a free pass, but a 10-30s window if they're watching is more reasonable than about 3s warning. i'm mostly just thinking that it would keep snipers somewhat viable without making them impossible to get to. i don't think that it's an end-all solution, but it's a suggestion to work off of."
"i love the look of the primae and noctis ship designs. the detailing and texturing is superb and they look like actual space vessels. in comparison, the mining barges look very dated and the texturing on them is quite ugly. even the new strip miner models look better produced. the designs for the mining barge models need an update drastically.primae:"
"at least they'll get updated textures soon enough. if not with this expansion i am almost certain they will in the next."
"the models of the mining barges are fine, there's no need to change them. update textures, sure, but don't change the model."
"ccp is likely going to do a texture overhaul here soon...but there's no reason to add this to the long list of things needing to be fixed....low priority...yes...but not earth shattering.papercut list perhaps?edit: inappropriate part removed, ccp phantom.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"true. i don't disagree with you. but nevertheless the ships look out of date and will look even more so with the new graphical improvements coming up in the winter patch."
"this. there's nothing wrong with the ship model itself, it's actually one of the most believable ship designs in the game: it looks utilitarian and basic, the way industrial hardware should look. a texture reskin wouldn't hurt."
"because it will make the miner's tears that much sweeter?because you can't see textures on a cloaked stealth bomber anyway?because blowing up prettier shiny things makes life that much more interesting?"
"please allow corps to do more war decs, having the ability to do only 3 is severely limiting, especially as alliances can do unlimited amount. understand that its alot cheaper to dec corp to corp but only asking for a small increase to say 10 war decs.also on a side note can we remove the time it takes to war dec. it effectively takes 2 days minimum to actually get the war active, again of a pain. so can we change this to be same as alliances and insta war dec, then wait 24hrs. i dont see the need for a corp vote if the ceo sanctions it anyway."
"(a pet peeve of mine, but more importantly, an example of what i think a porposal should look like - discuss)[issue]info tabs suffer from bad layout, restricted useability and lack of interesting background information. while players have long learned to cope with the former two, the latter has become intolerable.[solution]add a couple more properties to info tabs: - \"dimensions\" to sublunar objects in space- \"population\" and \"gdp\" to celestials[details]all properties would be added to the list of attributes.\"dimensions\" would reveal length, width and height of ships, stations and big dumb objects, helping out with the sense of scale eve so often lacks.\"population\" and \"gdp\" would be randomly generated for celestials, modified by celestial type, size and sec status. they would offer just a little more insight on why we should care about those pretty marbles in the skies.[pros] - adds flavour, satisfies curiosity- squelching curiosity engenders more of the same and, through that, increased identification with the eve universe- won't require much work- will hardly require any qa- \"population\" and \"gdp\" may offer a basis to some later pi feature- will not realistically wreck some other aspect of gameplay[cons]- it is quite useless- info tabs will go on sucking- clutters up my view even more- takes artists away from fixing those bugs[tl:dr]some uncomplicated additions to info tabs would add much flavour and satisfy curiosity of so inclined players. have a heart, dammit!"
"this sounds like a job... not for any actual developers, but for isd. the developers are busy doing big, important things that only they can do... but grinding out flavor-only numbers for every item and celestial in all of eve? yeah, that kind of thing would work best as a volunteer project.as an isd project, supported; heck, i might join such an effort myself. so long as it doesn't distract the devs from anything important, i'm all for it."
"this. due to the fact that you're adding pure, unadulterated fluff it should definitely be purely a community volunteer effort, no devs involved wasting time on meaningless fluff. with that proviso, i can see how it could be interesting to a few people. i personally couldn't care less about seeing meaningless information like that, but if some people in the community want to do it and it doesn't affect me, i don't mind."
"i'm not sure it could be done by isd alone - i doubt they'll have the tools to do anything like that. if anything, anyone might start an effort to enhance 'pedia entries for planets and stuff on their own that might at a later point be integrated or linked with the info tabs in-game.however, any modification of info tabs (i.e. to add another entry to the attributes table) will require a few minutes of dev effort. if they did spare that, they might as well put in a seed that gives a weighted random value to all planets. isd might or might not be able to adjust those values afterwards. considering the amount of physical nonsense that mars planetary attributes (climates getting warmer at more distant orbits...), somebody needs to have a look at those numbers at some point anyway."
"empire temperate planets should have population details"
"true, isd probably doesn't have the tools to add extra slots to the existing info tabs. that said, it should be fairly trivial to get them a database which they can populate with reasonable-seeming numbers, and which, once populated, could be imported into the game itself to add extra fluff to the universe."
"it would be trivial, if isd were actually an active entity. not sure what their status is, but no matter which branch, they do not seem productive. this job here would probably be down team yarr's or team m's alley, and neither showed any activity at all in recent months. hell, i'd do this myself if they let me, but i feel intimidated by their signup form."
"currently, dev blogs seem to appear at random times when most us timezone and probably most eu timezone players are at work. this would be fine except for the fact that these dev blogs sometimes have massive effects within eve almost immediately after they are posted. for instance, the pos changes announced today (2011-11-08) resulted in all heavy water in high security space being bought up and relisted at 5-10x the previous price (from 20 pu to 100-200 pu) almost immediately. the massive advantage in timing for those players who can log on at any time has no justification. in addition, initial feedback from the community (which is all the dev's probably read) is even more strongly biased toward hardcore gamers with far more time than the vast majority of players that pay to keep eve running. therefore, i propose one or all of the three:1. dev blogs be announced a week ahead of release 2. dev blogs be released at a fixed time based on peak user time3. dev blogs be released only on weekends and holidaysobjections:1. ccp will share less info. w/ us if they are 'restricted' to posting dev blogs at certain times.ccp's decision to share or not share information with us independent of how and when to share such information. it is a simple matter for ccp schedule dev blogs."
"while i can kinda see your point about market uses, i don't really think we need that much limitations on when devblogs can be released. and they definitely shouldn't be weekends only. i think there should be a notification that shows up for everyone (another item that pops up, same as when someone likes a post you make), for those of us who don't always check the devblogs page. but i don't want us to restrict ccp trying to share information with us, that's just stupid, we've been doing our best to get them to share more information with us."
"the important bit"
"1: really?\"we will be annoucing a dev blog in a week on \"stuff\" news at 11!2: what about people who working during said fixed time?3: what about people who work on weekends?that has to be the most utterly pathetic troll i've seen yet.the following phrase comes to mind - you snooze you loose.get over it.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"oh c'mon!!! we just went though damn near a year of players saying \"we want more communication!! shoot jita statues!\" and now that ccp is giving it to us, people still complain? ccp cant win for loosing."
"bad idea. just continue with the current release timings."
"jesus christ, nitpick much?this is hardly something the csm needs to worry about."
"cry more?biomass queue is over i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"while i wouldn't mind prior announcements about major dev blogs, i certainly don't feel the need to force that upon ccp. your suggestion is fairly ridiculous, by the way. it comes across as, here's a better suggestion: how about ccp releases dev blogs on the dev's work time, and not on the dev's personal times. given that ccp is a european company, and while it has offices throughout the world, most of its developers are in iceland, with a batch in the u.s. too. we will understand that implies dev blogs come out during the standard european and u.s. work week, and will try not to act like whiny selfish bitches, pouting because dev's get evenings, weekends, and holidays away from eve."
"fyp"
"how does the bookmarks updating fix seven years worth of documents, blogs, videos, podcasts, notes, wikis, guides and memories?"
"are you suggesting so? i'm not. not that anyone really gives a twit about all that anyways - some people will keep referring to mumbai as bombay, and nobody gets confused. besides: chill, girl."
"if i make a bookmark to sit 170 km off the kaaputenen gate in niarja and name it \"niar - kaap 170\" i completely understand the meaning of the name, but ccp can't change that with any sort of find and replace.that's what i'm talking about, not the actually coordinates of the bookmarks.it's completely unfeasible and would put far to much work in the hands of the players to fix all their data because ccp changed 8 years of established game content."
"these system names have been here since the games inception and people have managed up 'til now. besides, easier to pronounce just means something people are families with, which in turn means that these wonderful system names will be replaced with generic and boring names."
"that is one of the dumbest justifications ever, please don't use it."
"yeah, no-one cares at all about all the guides, route planners, blogs, recruitment ads. wikis, or thier own memories. no-one at all.nope.no-one.get out."
"i quite like the idea of letting corps that have had sov in a system for a long time give it a name, however i think it should be a bracketed attribute, such that the original alphanumeric name remains.one alternative that i quite like is giving all systems two types of names, a 'real' name and a 'code'. i guess it would be possible to then allow players to choose which appears bracketed or something.however i do not really see names as a big issue, i would prefer that they spend time updating lore or other essentially aesthetic aspects of the game first.he quite clearly underlined just bookmarks, therefore his comment was just aimed at bookmarks. the implication was that it did not belong in the list of things which would not update. however the point another raised about the names we give our bookmarks is a valid one."
"would disagree with the first point, there already is a massive drop from hi to low which is why many people stay in hi.as for low sec being too hard, i do spend time there now and other than the choke points out a lot can be dealt with by being attentive to your surroundings, but i wouldn't build there as a small corp as you might as well throw the isk away.but thanks for the usual troll, pretty much as expected"
"i did in a thread where somebody else had taken that approach and it was suggested i post here.also i expect that if it was to become a workable idea others would contribute and refine to something useful as i don't claim to have the answers to all of low secs problems or even claim this is the right idea. it's a thought that springs to mind and as so far all i have had is the expected negative stuff and join an alliance time i haven't been disuaded that it's a bad option.i doubt it would be the best option and would expect that people with better knowledge of eve than me to say why it wouldn't work, how it would unbalance the game or whether it's something that could be adapted to provide something that would encourage people out of hi, rather than the majority of comments that either say make hi care bear heaven or nerf it completely.there has to be draw to low other than faction war or the few loners who play there."
"people already pay ridiculous amounts to rent nullspace systems, and they don't get any npc help, and need to invest more isk for upgrades.so it seems a bit off for anywhere the same ammount of isk you get npc help, and do they shoot anyone red to you, or everyone not blue? could stations still be docked in?i support maybe having more npcs guarding lowsec (no insta-stop god concord, regular navy ships) that would make it much more 'low security' vs no security it is currently but to have it become exclusive like nullsec in access to stations, no way.its low sec for a reason, and sov is held by the empires. so it technically regardless of your friendliness to them still belongs to them, its a lawless frontier compared with high but that does not mean they will willingly relinquish it.and btw moons can be taken in lowsec anyway if it meets the right sec status, sov holding and moon holding can be very independent. just that all the good ones have been staked out forever ago, changing hands between powers."
"was not wanting concord there, far too much, and not sov either.i know about moons etc. in low sec protection would have to be no auto-death scenario like concord, but something that could be avoided and hunt you at least while in system. faction still owns and does not attack as you direct, only on agression. if you built a station you would have to conform to docking rights of the faction to a large extent, if not complete. it's always seemed daft to me that you can dock when being shot at, so it would need something to allow agressors or dec'd corps locked out.i can agree that factions would not want to give up sov, but if you were in good standing with them (and the need to keep it there as a corp/alliance) and were willing to pay them tax and effectvley fund a safer area of low sec to increase trade and other income, why not?anything spent on upgrading the system if that was an option would have to be accepted as open to anybody not set as shoot on sight by the faction, so that it doesn't become a private semi sov excluding other people. if that's wanted it would have to be null and hold yourself. if it was to work it would need the same costs as sov for upgrades etc., but without the exclusive rights. still be unsafe, but not completely lawless. a place where you can break the law and get away with it without simply having to tank the gate sentries, but rather have the local coppers trying to find and kill you who you could fight back against with a chance of winning or play with brains and avoid."
"as with any election, the choice not to vote means that you are agreeing to go along with what the rest of the population decides. when you decide not to vote, you forfeit your right to complain about the results. edit: and if there were no candidates that you supported, you should have run for the position yourself."
"+0voting is secret for a reason. people have right to lie in such matters. no need to soften that up."
"bounce is needed."
"pics?"
"i think you're missing the point. the point is to increase realism. not just to watch boobs bounce up and down (as happy as that makes me). although, incarna hasn't been used much, i'm sure ccp has big plans to make those characters they worked so hard on an integral part of the eve universe. i support all the bounce (realism) we can get."
"ah, yes, that is true.there'd finally be a use for the retribution, though :)"
"agreed. who knows what kind of crazy ass system they have behind it all though..."
"gerbils for power and monkeys for code."
"i think modifying the faction towers to use the same fuel as normal towers is ridicilous. the whole point of investing in one of the faction towers is reduced fuel costs, so it will pay for itself. now i understand that in trying to simplify the game, and making the fuel costs more simplistic, i get that. however a bigger fuel bay, isn't going to do it in so far as a fair trade off.what i propose is this, and incremental increase in the powergrid/cpu output for the tier 1/tier 2 towers, thereby retaining some of the 'fuel savings', and allowing the simplization of the fuel situation at the same time.please give this idea serious thought, as it would only be fair to reap some actual benefit to faction towers people paid their hard earned isk for.thank youlucid phoenix"
"i think its a bit early to jump the gun on this unless you have access to more information already? maybe there will be different sized pellets, or the pellet consumption rates will change depending on standard/faction towers.please don't start crying \"over simplification\" everytime they change something to remove tedium/overly complicated mechanicscomplicated != complexthings can be complex, without being complicated, if you've ever been involved in helping maintain 20+ towers, balancing all the fuel loads to travel around 50 systems to stock up towers is a horrible boring task that will be made better."
"hybrid buff is great stuff. definitely an improvement over current state of affairs. now, the final touch. give the gallente ships a real chance to hull tank while keeping up speed. 1. change reinforced bulkhead penalty from speed reduction to cargo capacity reduction. reinforced bulkheads help out the bigger ships (40 cpu fitting requirement) and are better used on gallente than amarr because of cpu requirements and gallente on average have a stronger hull.2. add hull rigs - 16% increase in hull hp per rig. penalty: cargo size. this gives hull tanking ships like gallente ought to be a chance of survival in today's modern day battlefield. (helps hull tankers increase ehp in same order cdfes and trimarks do for shield and armor tankers)comparisons: using current turret fitting reqs, and current ship speeds. comparison #1: \"max tanking underfit cruiser\" proposed hull rig thorax+ reinforced bulkheads: 26k ehp, 1436 m/s, armor tanked thorax: 49k ehp, 1,112 m/s. fair enough. speed for ehp. comparison #2: shield gank thorax: proposed hull rig 14.8k ehp, \"shield gank thorax\" 20.4k ehp, but no web. fair enough. both 1436 m/s. web+sig radius reduction for ehp. could potentially use low slots for more speed (since webs are available in mid slots).comparison #3: max tanked mega: proposed hull rig+reinforced bulkheads - 145k ehp, 960 m/s. max armor - 146k ehp 822 m/s. same tank, some needed speed for the mega. comparison #4: shield gank mega - hull tanked 58.9k ehp, 960 m/s, shield gank mega 54.7k ehp 960 m/s. same tank, more available midslots for the mega. lower sig radius, could add speed mods in lows to further increase speed (since webs are available in mid slots)."
"hmm. a penalty to cargo size is almost no penalty at all... but at the same time, a bonus to hull is something you have to be half-crazy to really exploit much, and people who try are likely to pop more.all told, i approve; supported. more hull tanking would be hilarious in general."
"supported. the surprise, lulz, tears and rage is worth it."
"^^ this."
"i endorse and support this message."
"hull tanking definitely needs more love, but t2/t3 ships would have to get improved hull resists."
"by having a % gain it is much more likely to be used by caps (gain much more then a couple thousand boast).add to that, with a damage control a fast way to get good all around resists."
"there are stacking penalties to eanm's and invulnerability fields. perhaps stacking penalties should apply to reinforced bulkheads as well ?"
"they've always been pretty helpful and speedy on my petitions, although i rarely petition, and usually only for a loss because of an unscheduled server drop you say that petitions aren't resolved in your favor - how do we know that you're not just petitioning completely unreasonable requests? although i do agree that it shouldn't take weeks to get a response"
"this is an old subject brought up by the csm back in 2009. to site my source refer to this link:"
"without holding a particular opinion about what might be ideal docking and undocking distances from the various civilizations' stations, i disagree with the general premise behind your argument. i do not believe that equalizing all aspects of player experience and necessary tactics across races/civilizations enhances eve, at least not indisputably. it may make \"the game\" more \"fair,\" but it degrades the worldliness of eve as a sci fi simulation, as a virtual universe of space exploration, industry, and combat. over the years, but especially recently, there has already been far too much compromise of the fictive, imaginative dimensions of eve in the name of \"playability\" and \"fairness,\" where the notions of what counts as playable and fair are derived from instant-access arcade and p2w games rather than the lived, experiential duration of mmorpgs. however, this is not to say that the docking and undocking distances ought not be revisited for sense and if not \"fairness\" then some more intangible balance. if there is a docking and undocking debility specific to caldari and amarr stations, there might well ought to be some countervailing specific ability other civilizations' stations lack.difference does create complexity, which many view simply in its negative, \"difficult\" and \"unfair\" aspects. but many differences, distributed, also create the preconditions for and texture in-world knowledge. such differences ultimately make for the special significance and pride that being in and of a virtual world for some duration deservedly brings its veterans. who would expect or deserve respect, be sought after for knowledge and opinions, for playing tf2, \"since it started\"? games are fair. life is not. it's a fundamental choice: which is eve to be more like?"
"not supported. and the other 2 outposts should have warpin radius up to 2500m, same as npc station and rest of outposts."
"i'm not saying shorten the warp in radius. i'm saying the docking radius is extremely small compared to the other stations including npc. fixing it would not be a matter of fairness, rather what is the mechanic behind those 2 stations having such a short dock radius. i think what is happening is this:the docking radius is a set perimeter if you where to draw a circle on a piece of paper and pretend that is it.then you put the station inside that circle. some stations are shaped odd compared to others. realizing that amarr and caldari stations are pretty wide compared to the boxy look of minmitar station and long thin of gallente. so when you put them inside the dock radius some spread out closer to the perimeter of the radius while others fit closer in the middle. keeping this in mind that would mean if you warp to the station your 2500 off the station lands you either outside the dock radius or inside the dock radius depending on the shape of the station.....since that appears to be the case as it is now, why would it not be logical to change how that mechanic plays out? because more realistically the dock radius should be distance from the station itself or the hangar entrance.so somebody please argue with my logic there? because i think this would be an excellent thing to fix."
"i have recently read this letter and would like to pass it on as a relevant issue for the csm.i am certain that this letter raises several questions of interest to eve players.are we playing in a sandbox and do we have the freedom to raise issues we feel strongly about with ccp?"
"they let you into goonswarm?also, for full effect you should start 1000 threads with this copy pasted inside"
"what in the hell."
"1. when you're building ships, it's not \"solo\" (you took the minerals, moon, and/or station factory slots i could have used)2. when you're inventing bpc, it's not \"solo\" (you took the moon and/or the station lab slots i could have used)3. when you're extracting pi goods, it's not \"solo\" (you took the materials i could have used). dust514 will just add an \"it can be destroyed by others\" element to pi.4. when you're ship spinning, it's solo (though soon to be fixed if that counter on sisi is any indication )sure, it's not that big of a deal in hisec that you took \"my\" lab slot for 2 hours or a manufacturing slot for a day ... well, between the two of us anyway. now, let's expand that to what \"could\" happen because you tied up the manufacturing slot i was going to use (also, assume the winter expansion is out).i get delayed in making 10 tornadoes by 12 hours (or whatever). some group of former w-space residents found a new entry to their former wormhole, but it's close to the expiry (4 hours or less, whatever is low enough to get the \"it's nearly collapsed\" description). they can't get 10 tornadoes, because they're not on a close enough market yet (at least 10+ jumps out). well, they could try to get them, but there's no guarentee they can get back in time. the \"invaders\" choose to use other bcs ('canes, myrmidons, whatever) because they can't get enough bs through the wormhole... the \"invaders\" are able to cause damage to the pos of the guys that kicked them out, and maybe even end up having a full-blown fleet engagement .. but they can't rf the tower, because they don't have the dps. so, they get kicked out (again) by the \"new\" owners. obviously this is just an example (and has flaws...), and we all know that there will be tons of tornadoes and the other tier3 bcs out within hours of dt lifting ... but i think it shows pretty effectively how even little things such as a few hours delay on producing a ship can have an effect on many people's gameplay..."
"if eve monitors its boards, someone at ccp should have read this post and either agreed that its a bug and put it on a list - or didnt care and it will be unfixed."
"they don't....not the people that you want to see this.file a bug report.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"obviously not the real minigin, post was not limegreen"
"maybe because every god damn item in the game (just about every item at least) requires minerals. yea, all the titans and super carriers in 0.0? miners.in before someone says \"loot reprocessing\""
"actualy you use thos goods wath they making ;) all the time ;) almost 90% of trit is imported in 0.0 so you use that ting al lthe time ;) eve when you shot single bullet ;) if you dont wish to use it than you ned mine your self :) but ader ways you wil use it any way veldspar give out to low trit to suport 0.0 and wuld be worth off mining in 0.0 :("
"actually jay pava lives in nullsec and his only occupation is industry/mining. as i said in the op - yes i would like to see a mining barge update! i don't look down on other players because i live in null; in fact, high sec players are invaluable to me because i can't be in two places at once. i don't appreciate trolls coming back to my posts and antagonizing the people who actually have something to say; especially from a toon that was activated in september and has never been part of a corp. you have nothing of value to say and your wall-of-text ranting is becoming very boring. please move on."
"^this"
"why? so you can hang around at jita undock with 10 corps you can shoot at the same time, instead of 3?"
"i think i have explained why.. not sure why your obsessed with jita undock! that only really works when you dec lots of alliances to make it worth it by the way... if you decced 10 corps even if they had 100 players each that would only make 1000 players, say 30% alts to make it 700 and they not on at the same time zone then those in that time zone wont be on at the same time, you prob have 50 players online at any one time if your lucky, and chances of those undocking at jita any time soon is next to none.. would be very boring indeed10 corps is hardly asking for much is it..."
"3 is enough. by the way, your \"small\" increase from 3 to 10 is a 233% increase. too much. maybe 5, but again, i think 3 is enough.i dont have a problem with the insta war dec, you are right that it takes way too long as it is now to get a war started. i approve of that change."
"compared to alliances this is miniscule when alliances have unlimited war decs. could you explain when 3 is enough? enough in whose eyes? not mine. especially with this silly dec shield"
"so, pray tell, what is it you do that's making 3 such a limiting limit?"
"pretty much the same as the jita quote, most corps are not very big, if you can only dec 3 corps they amoount of targets you may have online at any one time could be tiny, then chance of you actually finding them is even smaller. being able to dec more corps at least give you a bit more of a chance to find some targetsi would actually prefer it was unlimited and the cost increased x2 each time2,4,8,16, 32, 64,128 mill etc etcso it still remains relatively cheap at lower end and get progressively more expensive"
"in other words, what you're doing is part of the reason there's a limit there in the first place."
"well not really is it. 3 decs is tiny. we have decced a say alliances with a combined count of 15k players and still find it difficult to find a target. even if you decced a corp you had full intel on etc they amount of people online and online in your tz would be very small. so whats the point of even deccing anyone? what so you get one kill maybe in a day? and waited ages for it? seriously mate think about it before posting just random comments. war deccing is a profession at least make it a viable one if you just want to dec corps..with the dec shield in place now which is just stupid, its even more difficult. we might as well just do away with corp to corp war decs then. i am not really sure why your arguing against it tbh"
"you do realize that the answer to your limitation is to become an alliance right? \"small price\" to pay for unlimited wars.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"working as intended.or ccp can just give you free kms.btw, u mad bro?"
"well its not a small price to pay is it? the cost increases quite considerably as decs grow.as i stated war deccing is a profession, its not a viable one wiht only 3 decs.with respect none of you have given any real arguments against, where i have given arguments for.seriously think about this logically, instead of just being awkward for the sake of it. you might as well just do away decs for corps theres just no point as a profession at all.please dont say working as intended, we know its working as intended thats why im proposing the change!"
"i support wardeccing as a profession."
"for that reasons need to limit war decs to 1 and per month :)"
"roam wh space. it's not that difficult to figure the mechanics of wh's - and *everything* is a target on the far side... :) wh's leading out of jita are good targets, and the surrounding couple of systems...."
"50 million per dec for unlimited dec's is too expensive?oh damn...hell just froze over.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"find a different profession or move to space where wardecs don't matter. or would fighting someone who knows what they are doing and might shoot back a problem?"
"wartargets shooting back is a real problem for empire wardeccers, ccp should nerf wartargets so they can't shoot back seriously op, if you want more wardecs, form an alliance, nbd."
"if wardeccing for the kicks is your thing, wouldn't it seem ideal that you would do some research on the people you dec to know whether or not they are going to give you targets to shoot at?unless you are actually war deccing people for traditional reasons such as someone from another faction slept with your daughter, or you don't like the way they looked at you."
"its not 50 mill per war dec tho is it..it get exponentially more expensive, if you want to troll at least do it properly"
"lol not one of you have come up with any reason why this should not change, no arguments just trolls.at least give valid arguments if you are going to disagree, otherwise your just trolling...where have you guys been for the past 8 years when wars where implemented?"
"part of the reason the number of wars was limited to three was as a kind of built-in anti-griefing mechanism to prevent larger corporations from perma-deccing numerous, much smaller industrial corps, or just many small corporations in general.if you want to be able to dec as many corporations as you want, you're going to have to form an alliance. it is one of the many benefits of doing so that comes with that huge pricetag. war decs cost significantly more (once again, to prevent the perma-deccing of numerous small corporations as a griefing tactic).besides, typically, it is ill-advised for one to spread themselves thin by fighting wars on multiple fronts, as they commit tactical planning, logistics and resources to multiple fronts, thus leaving gaps in security, etc, etc.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"the fact that you don't like my answers, doesn't mean i'm trolling."
"the fact is your not coming up with any answers.drake instead of getting mad all the time why dont you try use the energy and post something constructive? i know this is hard for you to do judging by all your other posts. but if attention seeking is your thing then hey ...i was having a look more into your forums replies to other people, and by god you just like to be a complete idiot dont you?i mean every post you do, is arrogant, i mean people have a look at his posts.. wow your like a petulant child, nothing good to say about anyone or anything. just an attention seeking loser...gtfo.also who said we wanted to do unlimited war decs only mentioned 10, said it would be nice to but the proposal says 10.its interesting to see when alot of you guys are wanting to make high sec carebears more of a target for free, yet for some unknown reason you want to derail this? weird....you are just like a bunch of kids hanging on the street corner, just being idiots and causing trouble for the sake of it...boring..."
"maybe one daythis isn't free reigning empires all about your corp, your corp is a resident of whatever empire and concord monitored space, you need to spend time convincing the authority (bribing) them to do it. filling out paperwork to do it and whatnot.legalized sanctioned war should not be too easy."
"going with \"no\"."
"i meant it'd be trivial to set up the database; very non-trivial to populate it! you're looking at multiple data entries for every place and item in the game! but yeah; if this were to be implemented, there'd have to be some kind of public announcement / call for volunteers; it's an epic task, requiring of an epic amount of work, almost certainly beyond the current scope of the current isd projects, but within the scope of isd's mandate."
"let's let the devs focus on actual issues, not fluff. -1"
"one man's fun might be another man's fluff. ;)on a more serious note, fluff does have some justification - i don't think you'd enjoy eve quite as much without any. fluff is especially good if it doesn't cost much and yet holds some appeal for a sizeable group of players.of course, it's up to this thread to determine there is that sizeable group!"
"not something that ccp or the csm needs to be concerned with. dev blogs should be posted when they are ready to be posted."
"no. there's no reason to have an in-universe game change simply because some fc's aren't imaginative enough to figure out such a simple issue."
"the introduction of drone damage was great and all, but when i'm piloting a ship that doesn't solely rely on drones for damage, it'd be nice to see the damage i'm doing with my primary weapons.an option to group drone damage as an average over a period of time, or the ability to turn it off entirely would be nice."
"i brought this issue up recently in features and ideas. feel free to make a comment and support the thread"
"here's a counter-idea. leave lowsec as it is. take concord out of 0.5, put faction police there instead. then, you have more of a stepping stone from high to low, and you don't have to turn low into some kind of weird npc policed wasteland, instead of just a wasteland."
"i dont know what are you smokinglow sec is pretty safe for starters, just use mwd and cloak to get almost anywhere with perfect safetythen you have gate guns which keep campers off the gate most of the day, counting out some more frequently camped systems where you are not forced to go by any meansfurthermore if you want protection you can either pay someone or gather a corp or alliance who protect you, it is still lot of safer than 0.0and because non factionwar low sec is pretty much most useless space to be at the moment you're pretty safe almost anywhere you go, just look for some system not next to freaking jita.if you use even a little bit of brain low sec is probably safer than hi sec, at least you know every neutral with guns probably tries to gank you.just saying."
"valid option, the only negative i can see is the full care bear tears and that what is left of concord space would become even more crowded. i would still prefer some graduation rather than the cliff face from 0.5 to 0.4 though and spread into low as about half the systems i fly through in low are just empty. but anything rather than the cliff face would help."
"and valid and from experience i've sat in empty systems for hours with a lot less hassle than high. but the choke points out are the problem and i must admit i don't fancy cloaking my hulk unless ninja mining through worm holes. i don't know any corp of players that will sit around alert for hours for a level of pay that would make the work in low worthwhile, and i don't blame them. makes mining exciting if nobody turns up.but the point that low sec is useless and empty is surely a good reason to change something so people want to go there and do something. as most in high sec are care bears, noobs, indy alts and small corps it seems sensible to pitch at those who would be willing to move for some gain."
"or just use it for the part of the forum where it matters: assembly hall. i bears no meaning elsewhere so that would be sufficient.and to clarify: you would not be marked with a certain candidate you voted for, but a a simple marker that you voted for someone. that person may not be part of the csm.i guess we were thought different values there.not voting = not interest in the electionsspoiled ballot = no person that made it on the list is suitable to youof course in eve it is easier to get accepted as candidate so yeah, everyone would be able to run (in theory) but you need a lot of commitment and time to ne a real asset to the csm and not just block a seat.and as pointed out above i don't want to know who someone voted but if.if you deem that so important, have one account voting and another not, so you always got the chance to 'lie' about it.and what does your +0 mean? are you indifferent to the matter?"
"what if i don't want you to know whether or not i voted?"
"*bump* because i modified the op, and because i really think this would add something fine to the game."
"hell god damn no. so much csm time has already been dedicated to missions over the years. ****, the mission overhaul wasn't even that long ago."
"yes. they added useful journal entries for convenience and - thankfully - a handful of epic arcs. after you ran the latter, missioneering was back to the dreary business it had been. you focus your criticism on a point i noted: \"requires some effort by ccp (better spent elsewhere). i'd argue the effort required would not be that great, but that is of course debatable.how would you comment on the \"pros\" i listed in the op?"
"supported. missioning is a critical staple to the independant minded player and should be treated as such. no one should be made to join a megablob just because there's nothing else to do"
"uuuggghhhh kill yourself."
"it is possible these are just lower poly models in sisi... not sure.before & after"
"wow...the new ones do look fake. start chaning crap around like that ccp and you better be handing out free character recustomizations again.it looks like in the before you have no bra on and in after you do...either that or like you said...they are fake."
"supported"
"i usually have a bunch of chat-windows stacked in a corner of my screen. they're stacked in a particular order with more importand windows on the rhs and less important on the lhs. unfortunately whenever my client is restarted the windows rearrange themselves into a random order. i'd love it if they remembered what order they are in so i don't have to manually re-sort them every time i log on..."
"- fix \"sort by number of items\" option in assets windowever since dominion (i think) that option lists stations with most items at the bottom in assets list and even if you try to have it list from the top it doesnt do anything. annoying."
"right click stack of modules > fit stackplease?"
"add the goddamn wt0 amarr gate/freighter bumpage bug that's been around forever."
"when looking at corp hangar folders, it seems the item list is being drawn from server each time even if the list hasn't changed between tab change. or atleast if the list isn't drawn from server it is analyzed completely even if no changes have happened. there are thousands of different items(half of which are bpc) on one tab/folder at the hangar view because i use it for manufacturing and invention. 4 second delay everytime i change tab =/allow stacking of identical bpc. when inventing you need several station containers for them which seems quite insane. you need to put them into station containers because if you put them all into corp hangar they cause quite large loading times.when inventing remove meta 0 item from the meta item view because it does no good to use it.when inventing have highest meta item selected as default.remove unuseable menu items when rightclicking bpc. you can't for example 'time efficiency research' a bpc."
"ccp! just do it! don't even think about it... just do it!"
"supported.giving the gallente a viable alternative way to tank will free them from the trimark curse. besides, its hull tanking!although, i am a bit concerned about losing cargo capacity with rigs, as it is needed for cap booster charges.what about making hull resist % rigs? then, hull tankers can configure their ships to counter particular ammo types."
"well for long enough everyone knew that real men hull tanked, time to put that into practice for the real men of the gallente federation.supported."
"current statepayout: lets face it hs payouts are generously high for the risk involved over the time taken to smash a site.vanguard fleets (competent ones) can smash an average of 8 of the nco/nmcs in a 60 min cycle. this nets each player in the fleetan average of 87.5mill per hour.that is an estimated 875 million isk added to the economy every hour. with an average of 10 fleets doing this in one contested constellation the estimated isk dumped in to game is 8.75 billion isk.risk v rewardthere are 2 risk factors: loss of ship to sansha (negated by competent logistics) loss of ship to the sansha loyalists ( other players) (negated by intel channels and incursion channels)so if you have the right stuff there is pretty much no risk. . .proposed changesplit incursions in to 3 types green - high secamber - low seccrimson - null seceach type of incursion will have its own \"end reward\"current uber items are the shadow fb bpc and the reverent bpcadd a fighter bpc for a new sansha fighterthe isk payout for the 3 types incursion profiles would also change:high sec would be half of current payout (isk)low sec would take on the current high sec payout profile (isk)null sec would remain unchanged (isk)new sites:add new belt sites to all incursion systems (scaled to system incursion profile) and add an lp payout for them also (not isk)add new green sites for hs incursionskeep current incursion sites for amber sitesadd new crimson sites for null secrandom events (constellation wide):add random events to incursion constellations like:crimson site in xxx system in green constellation sansha staging station located at xxx planet in xxx systhese events would be sites in them selvs, but there payout would be, 1.5 times the constellation rate in isk and lpin the case of a site from a higher incursion band the payout would be the same as the payout for compleating it in its own bandie: cromson site in a green constellation would payout at a crimson constellation levelrandom events (site specific)add random site events like:elite sansha spawnssansha fbs entering a sightsansha slaver ships entering site these site events would increase the lp payout if delt with.any thaughts? comments?"
"large payout reduction for highsec is already in effect. rest is convoluted and unneeded changes that serve no purpose. not supported."
"in effect as on tq or a suggested add in the winter expansion? . in response to the added ideas.the main change would need to be:the rest of the fluff on the page was to facilitate the risk v reward balance that currently is not present in high sec incursions"
"in effect as in tq. there's the lower reward in both isk and lp, plus lack of mom bpc drop in highsec."
"something i posted on my blog:sansha<U+FFFD>s nation has invaded and occupied the constellation. concord doesn<U+FFFD>t have the firepower to deal with the incursion alone and has called on capsuleers to help. in return for the aid of capsuleer fleets, concord offers rich rewards in the form of isk and loyalty points. makes sense so far, right?the problem is, those capsuleers don<U+FFFD>t do what concord asked. instead of hastily repelling the incursion, most of the pilots who arrive only care to fight in small groups against the vanguard sites, where they can make the most isk. the sansha headquarters and mothership are ignored far longer than is necessary, because they aren<U+FFFD>t the easy money. i don<U+FFFD>t know about you, but if i were concord i would be rather unhappy with these guys i<U+FFFD>d hired to help clean up the mess.to fix incursions in a way that would be consistent with the lore, my suggestion is simple: make concord impatient. it works something like this: extended farming of vanguard sites results in diminishing payouts over time. the longer the incursion lasts, the less valuable vanguard sites become. this is due to concord wanting capsuleers to resolve the sansha invasion rather than making sport of the small sansha fleets. i would suggest keeping the current payout as the top level, with a 10% drop per day until it hits 60% for the last half of the incursion<U+FFFD>s natural lifetime. at 60 million isk per hour incursions would still pay more than any other highsec activity. the payout for the mothership could drop over time as well, creating a compelling reason for taking on the mothership quickly. put a hard cap on the payout for an entire incursion. each highsec incursion is worth x isk/lps, once that is used up the incursion disappears. not all of those have to go together. i think we could get by with just #1 and just see how it affects the economy.another idea might be to simply renorm the payouts so that vanguards pay less across the board, with the larger sites being increased."
"ok i think that you have missed my point by a large margin to boot.first of all:the current lp / isk payout for a hs vanguard site is (presuming maximum of 10 in fleet)10.5 million isk2500 concord lpthis is what it was at incursion release and this is what it is at now (payouts have not been nerfed)and as stated in my opening post people run an average of 8 of these sites in an hour.the primary objective of this proposal is to address the lack of risk over the rewards gainedthus the below change would first and foremost address the fact that an ob-seen amount isk is being printed (all-be it through combat) at little to no risk to the player the isk payout for the 3 types incursion profiles would also change:high sec would be half of current payout (isk)low sec would take on the current high sec payout profile (isk)null sec would remain unchanged (isk)"
"why is everyone all of a sudden interested in how other people play eve and demanding they have risk attached to everything?seems to be a thing on these forums that hi sec activities make too much isk so nerf everything to hell. nerfing everything in hi sec will only lead to bored players leaving eve.i know!! there's not enough challenge in low/null so i suggest to increase the risk versus the insane amount of isk they can make from plexes/ratting/moon goo that all rats in low/null be given the same stats as concord.there, now i support this proposal. give all parts of eve massive risks versus rewards and everyone is happy, amiright?i am also going to have a wild stab in the dark that the op isn't one of the incursion runners. what next? no farming level 4 missions? no plexes outside of null? no-one allowed to earn more than 10 isk per hour until they move to null?how about you play eve your way and let others play it their way?i give up. can only hope ccp ignores threads like these.*edit*oh and before the op screams incursionbear! i have never run an incursion and don't intend too, no matter how much isk it pays in any security level of space."
"no one in this thread is telling incursioners to do anything else. no one is saying \"play eve my way\" or anything like that.people are making over 100m isk per hour in highsec vanguards. that's the same level of income one can get in much more dangerous nullsec activities. that is why we have a problem with highsec incursions. they are imbalanced and pay out rewards that do not reflect the risk and effort that goes into them. this in a game that for eight years has portrayed itself as one where risk is required before reward."
"but you already said in your op that they do run the risk of losing their ships in the incursion sites and it's only down to good logistic pilots that they don't. the risk is already there. so are you penalising good team work and good logistic piloting?i think what you are really complaining about is the 100mil isk per hour, not the fact that there isn't any/enough risk. a stealth whine that carebears earn too much.and you are dictating to people how they play eve. if you get your way and nerf the hell out of incursions to the extent they are no longer really worthwhile, then people in hi sec stop running them and another part of the game is taken away from them.would you spend and hour or more shooting at rats to get virtually nothing in return? no? well then why should anyone else be expected to do this?leave hi sec alone. it's fine the way it is. buff low and null sec instead to make people want to leave hi sec to do something more lucrative or interesting."
"you do realize that number is only partial pay, right? go to lowsec if you want to see full pay. and no, half of what is already partial pay in highsec is too low, and putting current highsec partial pay in lowsec is too low. stop trying to nerf everything that you don't understand, and stop trying to dedicate how others play when you don't understand."
"ok...you obviously still are missing the point...the risk you run when it comes to losing ships in pve activity is 0% (as long as you know what you are doing and dont leroy jenkins your self out of stupidity)thus no incursion runner should ever lose a ship. especially now that running the vanguards has been perfected.what im trying to say is that in high sec there is \"no\" risk to the player for running the incursions, and that the reward is to high.the primary proposed change would:first: bring the levels of isk, currently being injected in to eve via hs incursions, down to a more economic friendly levelsecond: make null the place to make bank in incursions, while keeping bpc drops to low secthird: keeping lp payouts the same would make hs incursions more about the lp and sec grinding as far as the \"i don't know that im talking about\" comment you made. i have a good understanding of current hs incursion vanguard risks and payouts.]on the point of lack of reward...at 50% of current hs vanguard payout.1 site would be : 5.25 million and 2.5k lp8 sites in 1 hour: 42million isk and 20k lptotal fleet:1 site: 52.5 million and 25k lp8 sites: 525 million and 250k lpi would like to think that that is still a v generous payout for running a hs vanguard sitefyi: i relay do suck at pve in eve and as yet \"touch wood\" i have not lost my marauder or logistics ship in any incursion site i have been in"
"yeah so this is more of the same null-sec codswallop that translates as \"carebears get paid too much for risking so little.\"greater risk in no way shape or form entitles you to greater reward, it just entitles you to greater risk.why not pay everyone the same and you stop looking for null-sec welfare or stealing candy from carebears because you chose to live in a ******, dangerous neighborhood? if you want the ease of high-sec, move to high-sec and quit whining about how much they get paid and how much they don't spend smoking ships like an addict smokes crack.null-sec: \"boo hoo we want more money because we chose to live in a ******, dangerous neighborhood and the cost of living is sooo high and that's sooo unfair...but if you won't give it to us at least steal it from those carebears who chose to live someplace safer and save their money...\"high-sec: \"you could just move to high-sec.\"null-sec: \"no way you silly carebear, null-sec is where all the cool kids are...\"high-sec: \"whatever, i'm going to go relax and have a beer.\"null-sec: \"hey...can you give me tree fiddy?\""
"hi there smiling menaceim am not:1- a mission runner2- a null bare3- wh ***4-hs mining barei am :1-a lowsec pvp player2- and incursion runner (in the vary sites that i want to \"nerf\")3- an exploration plex runneri have participated in many aspects of this great game and it is not just my \"personal\" opinion that hs incursions are scued in the risk to payout department. as you will see in my above reply. the payout would still be substantial is the proposed payout change was implemented. .i dont want to nerd everything. i would just like to see the scaling of rvr that ccp intended not the current waterfall to plughole ratio that is reflected in hs vanguard sites"
"may i please refer you to my previous post.im not a null barethat is all"
"actually, most of sov null consists of backwater systems tucked deep within the blue ass of large alliances, where you don't see hostiles for weeks on end. why else do you think 90% of online toons at any given time there are bots?highsec is where any grey apoc parked around the corner can potentially gank you with a rack of 1400s."
"i couldn't care less what you are. this is more of the same \"punish the carebears and reward the non-carebears\" as if by playing a game differently you are somehow special and deserve something extra. you aren't special because you like pvp or live in low/null-sec. those are lifestyle choices and they are supposed to be less pleasant, less economically viable places to live. this is more \"we want low/null-welfare and we want the carebears to pay for it\"you just want tree fiddy...this is a game, remember? it's purpose is to entertain the people who play it.people sing the praises of the dark, dangerous, gritty, realistic sandbox that is eve when they are busily screwing other people over and stealing their stuff, (yes it's part of the game and i have no trouble with it at all in principle), but when confronted by the dark, dangerous, gritty reality of economics, for example, a stronger capital base and greater buying power in high-sec, people go running to ccp waving their poop filled diapers crying about risk/reward ratios.negotiate and enforce better treaties with your neighbors and reduce the amount of fighting and you will have more money. if all you are about is the fighting then we don't need eve at all, we just a ladder/tier system so people can do nothing but fight 24/7/365.maybe ccp could slow down resource renewal speed across the board, that might help reduce the \"spaceships are eve crack\" mentality that a lot of people seem to have as they burn through ship after ship.i thought you guys were all for that dark, dangerous, gritty realism? like fighting harder for fewer resources in relatively lawless areas, you know, where there will be more danger and less money and stuff to go around, a clockwork orange and mad max and all that? \"we should get greater rewards for greater risks.\" since when is that any sort of model of dark, dangerous, gritty reality?that is nothing but welfarebear, pure and simple...what's that you say? it's not as entertaining? you don't feel like you are getting the reward you feel you are entitled to for taking greater risks as though greater risk brings anything other then greater risk? it's a game and so it should be easier, (meaning more carebear), right? you do remember this is game and the relatively higher risks are something you volunteered for and can get away from at any time you want, right?you make it sound like low risk/high payout is a bad thing. oh wait it is a bad thing if one is not reaping the benefits from it.quit patting yourselves on the back for voluntarily living a third world lifestyle when you don't have to, especially when you turn around and try to get welfare from or punish carebears for being smart and behaving like most humans would if eve were a \"real\" world--making more money more safely. pick up your low/null-welfarebear cards on the way out..."
"ok...im not complaining that some guy in hs can make more isk than i can in ls.im saying that current hs incursions are far to easy for the isk they produce.the core proposal would fix that and still maintain incursion running as one of the more lucrative professions in hs whilestemming the printing of isk that is currently swamping the eve economy. at the vary least you can agree with the basic principal of eve that is risk for reward. hs incursion fleets are 99% of the time formed from 2 channels or corporations/alliances. everyone knows everyone, people fleet with people they can trust and have flown with. the risk is negated by this vary fact. and you are rewarded for not realy putting your self in harms way.just to re iterate i dont want hs incursions uber nerfed just brought down a peg so that its not the 1 definitive hs occupation."
"there you go again! don't you read what others say here?you are dictating what people do in eve. you just said it again! so because people are smart enough to band together with people they know and promote team work to make things easier for themselves, you want to punish them for this??? are you nuts?again, this is just a stealthwhine that carebears earn more in hi sec with good teamwork than you do in low sec. your own posts confirm this.as previously posted before, if you don't like this, move back to hi sec, join one of these 2 channels and make some new friends whilst earning isk. it's that easy."
"+1 any boost to eafs is a good thing at this point."
"yeah eaf's are the little orphan children of eve and have been for sometime.supported."
"and given that their focus is electronic warfare... kind of makes sense that they would have better control over their signature radius."
"i haven't made that many petitions but the ones i did do were answered fairly quicklysome of them weren't in my favour but they did explain why they made the decision they did and did provide links to back this up whilst not the answer i wanted, i can't complain about the service i receivedi don't think this thread is really fair tbh as we don't know what your petitions were about and could all just be trivial things which would lead to a negative responsealso, don't they come down hard on anything that discusses moderation?"
"i wouldn't petition anything trivial sorry i'm not the carebear who is qq'd about losing some ogre ii's not going to discuss any of my petitions, but they are very few and far in-between and none are trivial maby i am just getting some bad gm's but the current petition has been waiting 11 days now for a solution and no answer as of yet i would just like some service and from what i can tell, some think the gm's are idiots, and some think they are ok, but i'm not hearing anyone say \"omg great customer service! best gm expierence ever!\" i mean common shouldn't that be what they are striving toward?edit: and none of my petitions have been about ship losses"
"if you talk like that to the gms it's no wonder they treat you like **** you're an ******* stop being surprised when people treat you like one"
"while i'm very happy to see that many of you speak kindly of us gms and the support we provide, i can also understand many of the concerns raised in this thread in regards to those, i want to add a few points to the discussion: first of all, we actually do have a mixture of new and older gms working in customer support even if the employee turnaround within customer support is relatively low (as most of us love to work on eve and for ccp), there are always some gms being recruited into other departments of the company and some that leave due to some other reasons those are replaced by fresh blood, which are very often eve veterans and/or former isd members that have performed well as such that being said, of course we also need to look at many other skills to determine whether someone is well suited for customer support, such as good language skills and communication strengths the guy who knows everything about eve will not necessarily make the best gm this we know from experience regarding our response times, we do our best to keep them down as possible, but of course this can vary on the petition category, the current load of incoming petitions at any given time and the issue at hand but just to give you an idea of what you can usually expect, here are some average first response time numbers for our main petition categories all petition categories: last 12 months = 32 hours and 31 minutes last month = 16 hours and 31 minutes stuck petition categories: last 12 months = 1 hour and 4 minutes last month = 41 minutes billing & account petition categories: last 12 months = 22 hours and 6 minutes last month = 12 hours and 6 minutes technical support categories: last 12 months =32 hours last month = 11 hours and 52 minutes of course these are only averages and some petitions may need to wait for longer also these are only first response numbers and there may be more delay in between replies when petitions drag on/are escalated etcon reimbursement of losses in eve, i'm not sure what to say as you have probably heard it all before the fact remains that eve is a very, very competitive game and in some aspects on the brink of what is technically possible, so our task is not always that easy of course we know that players lose ships and items to bugs and server issues, but we can simply not apply some kind of blanket \"the customer is always right\" method of deciding when to reimburse and when not to we believe this would ruin the experience for everyone in the long run and thus we try to set clear policies that are equally fair to everyone (and equally unfair in some cases) and stick to them usually this means server log verification is required aka our logs show nothing that being said, we will always keep working with the dev teams on improving those logs/tools so that we have the verification needed in more cases and getting the bugs we are frequently exposed to through petitions fixed (with the current focus on eve within the company, good things are happening in this area) furthermore, we can keep working on finding the right balance between \"canned responses\" and manually typing up long personal and poetic replies to every petition with detailed explanations of everything and nothing, that would in turn slow the whole service down for everyone finally, remember that if you are not happy with how your petition is handled, you can always request that a second opinion is given by another gm and/or a senior gm and finally (again) use the rating tool to rate different aspects of our services after a petition is closed it really helps us focus on where to improve and tells us how we are doing overall (overall rating for last year was 77 of 10 based on 63731 rated petitions not all that bad but can of course be improved)winter is coming,lead gm panzer"
"thanks for taking the time, panzer"
"as outposts are assembled by player corps/alliances how about don't use caldari or amarr outposts? problem solved? i think so...."
"so basically you are getting nice bonuses with these outposts and have to suffer a small problem in return?be extra careful when you undock and check intel channels first and make sure there are no hostiles in system or near by before you jump in and try to dock your jf. again, problem solved.if you can't use the intel channels at least tell me which system you dock your jf in."
"this post is not intended to argue for the ability to play station games with hostiles in system like you can with other stations. yes fixing this issue would allow that, but is it really a big deal? 2 station unable to do that out of all of them? not a big impact. no.the purpose of this post is to point out the mechanic behind docking radius is separate from the actual \"station model\" so warpto 0 and undocking from the station model puts you either inside or outside the docking radius based on the station size. this concept was simple to develop but impractical in a game play sense. the practical approach would be to base the docking radius from the station size. ex: (not actual figures) 2k dock radius added from station radius. if station is 200k the docking radius would be 202k in size. right now if the docking radius was 200k radius and your station was 199k you would land 201k outside the dock radius and have to slow boat while if the station was 180k you would land at a comfortable 182 well inside the docking area.so its not a matter of checking local or crying about losses. it's a matter of mechanics that need to be re-evaluated to make sense and act more flexible to the uniqueness of each station's form and shape."
"honestly....the op's got a point.the mechanics are always the same...but in this case the stations general dock zone isn't the same.he's just asking for them to match across the board.not a unfair request at best.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"they not cald bonuses that survival you cant manufucture in ader stations, only amarr ones, so you and than only with 20 slots with is verry low for 0.0 manufucturing lines:( so basicly problem without bonuses."
"it seems pretty logical to me that research and manufacturing outposts are more dangerous than mere refinery or office outpost.only thing which has ever bothered me to any extent is extra big dock range of gallente one. ships don't look like being even close to it and can dock.i wish we could get rid of docking games and actually catch people in space(tm) but that is not going to happen very soon.and then it's not like anyone is actually taking anything to 0.0 outpost they can't afford to lose right?"
"god, i feel unclean somehow by responding to a goon... but here we go:\"recruitment\" channel is started by ccp, so they can determine what's allowed in their channel. if you make your own channel, you can determine what's allowed in your channel. scamming is not banned in the game, just banned in their channel."
"you miss the point. from any point now any one scammed can just say \"i was in the recruitment channel and they scammed me, waa waa waa\" and the player who scammed elsewhere gets banned.scamming is now completely dead according to the new customer service team.how long until causality is also banned?\"boo hoo hoo, my corp only hangs out in the recruitment channel and now someone has scammed us out of everything! we're only recruiters! waa waa waa.\""
"wrong. what they do is checking chat logs in their channel. their channel, their rules."
"so you obviously don't know what you're talking about. okay, fair enough. we're all glad you've laid your cards out on the table."
"scamming in the recruitment channel is seriously stupid and an all time low.i have nothing agianst the scamming \"profession\" but when you get a potentail gaggle of new pilots/noobs/guys seriously looking for a new corporation/alliance.... this place should be free of such things.this is just 1 channel.you guys have local...and every other bloody channel.somehow i feel this isn't going to hurt your devilish profession a whole heck of alot.so in short.... dont like it? sucks to be you.... go cry somewhere else.\"cry some moar\"================ stop the evemail spam!"
"haha did he indicate they would actually bother to check logs? they never have before..."
"cry me a river...ccp is running a business. you know, mouths to feed and bills to pay? you're driving away noobs - their customers. any other company would have deleted your accounts ages ago. instead of giving ccp credit for tolerating you tards for this long, you whine about it.btw, u mad bro?"
"thats not the point, the point is that in ccps rush to make the game safe for new players by removing concord insurance payouts, and 'no scamming basically anywhere because now the person just says you did it in the recruitment channel' they're just going to drive away the current player base.thats been ccp's constant problem, pissing off what they have in hopes they get something more, and the something more never materializes, and for a company that just had to lay off 20% of its staff, losing more customers isn't really that great of an idea.and you can say boo hoo all you want, but there will be a tipping point where the loss becomes unsustainable for a small company like them and they just have to close the game out.at some point its time to stop reaching for the sky and take care of what you have at home.this might as well be a blanket ban on scamming in a game made famous by scams, because its so easy to work around its ********.and you are a ******, high line scams have resulted in more eve subs then any advertising they've ever done. the scams made eve."
"\"no scamming anywhere...\"really?proof or gtfoseriously..that has to be the most pathetic excuse i've seen yet.maybe you should take a step back and realize that ccp want's to make sure pilots have some semblience of confidence that when they join a corporation and not worry about getting ####ed over out the door.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"silly tard, goons =/= eve.btw, your stuff and sov, can i haz?"
"the game managed for 8 years without this type of safeguard, why is it needed all of the sudden?its one of the dangers of eve and it weeds out the retards with no common sense.did you even read that before you hit enter?"
"all i want to know is how does ccp plan to implement and regulate this?it just seems like a bit of a weird thing to put into a sandbox game. can we get some clarification on how this is going to work out? is it a simple \"no scams in that chat\" or are there grey areas like if you pull someone from that chat and scam them afterwards thats okay? (with the current thought being they could just reference that they were in recruitment chat and suddenly you've broken a rule)i don't even scam often but either way, it couldn't hurt to at least clarify how this is going to work out."
"it's called a sandbox, people. the means you can do sandboxy things like scam. more to the point \"no scamming in this particular nonphysical place\" makes it difficult or impossible to say that a scam did not in fact take place there in whole or in part. ccp's notorious inability to log things means i doubt they really even know who is in the recruitment channel at any one time if they don't talk, so people could claim to have been scammed starting in recruitment and moving to private convo or local somewhere or some other channel and there would be no way to verify the truthfulness of it.the position on scams that occurred only partially in recruitment needs to be clarified, at the very least."
"ccp is safeguarding its own bottom line. there should be no explanation, none is needed.more importantly, u mad bro?"
"you sound like an old friend of mine named t'elk, needless to say literally everyone stopped listening to him after about 3 sentences.explain how there is no bottom line needed in a sandbox game? i have nothing wrong with protecting noobs, i doubt even goons has a problem with that, but this current idea has a lot of grey areas that at the very least should be explained.that or at least refine the idea to something more clearcut, like scamming a character of a certain date or sp total.but seriously every time you post u mad a kitten dies."
"the original letter is very clear about its purpose.in other words, if the change in wording on the recruitment channel is not a sanctioned change by ccp please revert it. if it is an official change in policy, please explain it.in addition, i would like to know why such a change occurred without public scrutiny and feedback.i don't think that list of requests is unreasonable and i do not think it should occur without comment and scrutiny.it should not simply appear out of the blue and we should not accept such large changes to the game when they occur on a day to day basis out of the blue."
"oh noez, think of the poor kittens...grey area intimidates some of the tards out of scamming even outside of channel, which means more noob retention, which means adding to ccp's bottom line, while retaining concept of sandbox in theory. it also creates tears, rage and butthurt in vets who have it not, thus entertaining me. working as intended.ah, the epitome of goon intellect. if i were you, i'd keep quiet. there's only one way this can end. enjoy the grey area while it still exist."
"i have a hard time caring about this."
"its just one lousy channel...and you \"scammers\" are treating it like someoen ran over your dog.you guys ever spend any time in recruitment? seriously?it's bad enough we get the market-tards who sell crap in there.you got local..you got every other public channel out there.ccp hanging up a \"no scam/sell zone sign\" in recruitment means dont pollute the waters.in all honesty you people make it harder for us to recruit when your scaring the bloody propects off casue your robbing them blind.again...i have no problems with scamming...but this is just one ####ing channel...get over yourselves...sheesh.go hang out in jita or something if its that big of a deal or make your own recruitment channels.why aren't you screamnig about not being allowed to scam in the help channel eh?================ stop the evemail spam!"
"this sounds a lot like the war dec rules reasoning:lets keep it grey so ccp can just ban people without having a clearcut set of \"things you can do\" and \"things you can't do\".even this, eventually, was put into more black and white terms so as to cut down on the amount of work gms had to do. can you imagine all of the petitions, escalations, and burdens of proof they'd have to go through with this rule? having grey areas also makes it harder on the gms, unless they literally just start banning people without proving their reasoning, because that always ends well.i mean if that's what ccp wants to do fine but, that doesn't really make sense to me in a sandbox setting where the very essence of player interaction is what drives sales and new players coming to the game.because there's a small difference between \"helping someone learn how to play\" and \"inviting someone to a corporation in a game where scamming is not only tolerated but advertised\""
"i for one play the game because of the sandbox not despite it.should the freedom to scam or be scammed be removed,then the sandbox is dead.i for one would like to hear from ccp on this.they seem hell bent on destroying everything they built in order to placate the wow rejects that really never understood what eve had to offer in the first place."
"i made the relevant part of the motd bold and underlined for those that didn't train reading comprehension to level 5.it's very clear that no scamming is allowed in the recruitment channel. does not say you cannot scam, cheat, steal and lie your way through every other aspect in eve. goons can rest easy now that their main entertainment stream hasn't been removed.no more tears required ladies, go about your business now."
"like ive been saying..... its just one ####ing channel.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"so what happens when you scam me and i just claim you did it from the recruitment channel, you know, that channel that is spammed 23/7?you expect me to believe that ccp keeps accurate logs of that, this, the company that can't tell you if your ship was in a tower or not?all you need do is make the claim, and with ccp's recent heavy handed ban first ask questions later it opens up a world of problems.not to mention that corp scamming is as old as the game, why is it suddenly illegitimate to recruitment scam?"
"so let me get this straight, you are saying that as ccp don't keep accurate logs (allegedly) that if i were to scam you and you cry that it was from the recruitment channel that ccp would check the logs that they supposedly don't keep accurately anyway to see that i did in fact scam you from the recruitment channel?if they don't have accurate logs as you claim, then what is the ******* problem? scam away! they will never be able to prove it according to your theory but i can definitely see a flaw in your river of tears. the inaccurate log argument works both ways. you are really dumb if you can't see that. ccp will probably never check the logs either way, for the scammer or for the scammee.once again for the pl idiots, they only asked that you do not scam in the recruitment channel. (made that last bit stand out for you as you seem to be unable to comprehend the easy bits)"
"bolded the part we're all concerned about, bub. the way that's worded makes actions outside the channel subject to the arbitrary whims of whatever banhappy butan-jockey is manning the gm posts nowadays."
"*sigh* no, you emboldened the part scammers are concerned about. i suspect the vast majority of eve doesn't even know there is a recruitment channel. even if they did, i doubt they would care that pl/goons can't get their jollies on scamming the gullible.if you are that worried about being banned, don't scam anyone. if you don't care, scam away."
"god you are dumb"
"since you are so dumb, that you need everything layed out plainly for you: a goon was nice enough to do it for you.now the easy opt out for any scam is to say you were first contacted through the recruitment channel. you then probably get whatever was scammed back, and the scammer banned.i know as dumb as you are that its hard to get your head around that, but you...wait for it....\don't need logs to prove any of itall they need do with that wording is suggest you contacted them after you were in the recruitment channel and suddenly they're a criminal, which is stupid.recruitment scamming is an old tradition in eve, scamming period is an old tradition in eve, thats brought a lot of business, this basically kills it in one sentence, by giving the person scammed the option of just saying \"he met me in the recruitment channel then scammed me outside of it\"."
"what you mean that channel that opens up every time you join an npc corp or start a new account? no this is stupid, thats the point, eve wouldn't have half its players if it weren't for the high profile scams that have gone on in it (cited as one of the biggest draws to the game, the old ghsc scams)"
"sorry, it's been a long time since i was in an npc corp or started a new account so i don't really remember which channels were open on default. bit sad to be scamming new players as they don't have anything anyway.i don't mean to be rude here but i have to call bullshit on 50% of the eve player base only playing because they heard about some scams.i will bet you that in a straw poll the majority of players that joined in the last few years didn't even know about most of the major scams.personally i think you are all reading too much into this and creating drama where there is none.you are trying to work out hypothetical scenarios that have no basis in fact. scam and get banned when not scamming in the recruitment channel then i will see your point of view. until then, be careful out there....even the gms will scam you."
"i'm sure goons are smart enough to figure out that the way around this is to have a single representative in the recruitment channel, and make the scam recruitment offers from an uninvolved third party, aren't they?or if it turns out that \"victims\" don't need logs to \"prove\" that they were scammed, you could just contract a heap of stuff to someone you don't like, then tell ccp that they recruitment-scammed you! omg! how easy would that be to exploit?why are you complaining about this instead of forming new meta-scams?i swear, the reason you guys love the mittani so much is because he's the only one with a brain."
"well going with your utterly stupid scenario, why not just counter claim that he scammed you from the recruitment channel first? a double-double scam. i know as dumb as you are that its hard to get your head around that, but you...wait for it....\don't need logs to prove any of itjesus dude, use your brain before posting.right, just to make myself really clear on this...your argument is anyone can make any claim that they were scammed from the recruitment channel but don't need logs to prove anything. if that's the case the argument works in reverse for the scammer too.it all falls apart if the claims made in this thread that ccp don't keep accurate logs and don't check them is pure conjecture and bullshit spread by certain elements in eve.*edit*and by the way? the longer you keep this thread going the more chance that people that have been scammed will use this as an excuse so......"
"ccp, one step forward with the winter patch.three steps back supporting the standard of retardation and communication blunders."
"albeit attempting to argue with the empire dwelling pubbies in here, i'll just add my voice to say i do not like this change to the motd of the recruitment channel."
"i see a lot of complaints about 'goonwaffe scamming newbies'. newbies don't have any isk, why would we scam them?"
"ccp still being :ccp:"
"i don't know if you can have his stuff, but you already have as much sov as him. this is a good point.edit: this entire thing could be solved by a dev coming in here and saying \"yes this is our new policy\" or \"no, this is not our policy.\""
"no they dont....recruitment channel can only be managed by gm/dev'sif that's what it says...it's policy...period.i'm enjoying the \"oh **** panic!\" posts by the scammers....never mind the fact they are only interesting in policing recruitment chat.but it seems everyone wants their tin foil hats and to say \"the sky is falling!\"ok chicken little's! off you go!================ stop the evemail spam!"
"ah, another new fool with no conception of ccp's schizophrenic history on gm pronouncements at various levels. any \"the logs show nothing\" idiot can change the channel. anyone with experience with the petition system knows that such people are reversed on appeal to higher authority 50% the time (and then reversed again and that's reversed once more, because :icelanders:).the first layer of gms are often regarded as a joke. they rarely seem to know anything about the game, or have more than a nodding relationship with logic. that's why someone wants to hear from a higher authority."
"the only fool here is the one ignoring the obvious.but since you can't see the obvious...you only have yourself to blame...so please...grow up....grow a brain....and go to your cave troll.-1/10================ stop the evemail spam!"
"don't worry, they don't need to argue with you, or even try to have a relevant discussion with you.all they have to do to make you look dumber than you currently look is flood all the major news outlets with another nasty story about ccp.they've shown they'll revert a change in a heart beat if it causes bad press.stupid goonies spent the summer fixing your game, they must be ******** right??"
"ok...so quit your subscription.because that's what it really took to get ccp to change.lets be honest now my foolish friend.oh can i has your stuffs? 8)================ stop the evemail spam!"
"yea, bad press totally didn't have anything to do with the subscription numbers or new players trying out for it.my bad."
"never in the history of the world has an exasperated minion said or done something that contradicted actual policy.luckily all it would take to solve this mystery/debate/whathaveyou is a dev coming in here and saying \"yes this is our new policy\" or \"no, this is not our policy.\""
"drake darconis, you know better than this. you know full well how the whole ccp thing works, and by extension you know full well how this is going to pan out. someone is going to get scammed, and they are going to use the \"but i was in the recruitment channel a while ago, they must have seen me through that\", even though the char doing the actual scam isn't even near the recruitment channel.you have to be able to see that in a game where people use neutral alts to provide logistical support to game the system, or flip cans etc, something like this is going to be abused to get revenge because they were being dumbfucks and got scammed."
"how about \"yes, this is our policy, and it applies to all of eve, not just a channel?\" when a dog gets too feisty, it gets kicked. very smart of you to try to stir up trouble against ccp and rest of eve player base. whatever \"clarification\" comes, it won't be the one you delusional tards are looking for.enjoy the gray area while it's still around."
"how about \"hey, why did eve online turn into hello kitty online, where everyone is protected from their own stupidity by daddy ccp\"?"
"if that's what they say, that's what they say. i'm not trying to stir up trouble, all i am saying (the only claim i have made) is that this issue could be resolved by a dev coming in here and saying if it is or isn't ccp policy.that is the only thing i am claiming: that the question as to if this is or isn't ccp policy could be answered by a ccp dev coming in here and saying if it is or isn't."
"i was having a pretty good .then you reminded me there are people as stupid as you out in the world"
"i can somewhat understand ccp not wanting blatant scam ads clogging up the recruitment channel because of new players, even if i don't agree with it, but this part right here: \"this includes, but not limited to, using the recruitment channel as a platform to find or target players to scam\" is completely ******** tbh.this will get abused.are all you hurfblurfscammertearsarejuicynomnom-retards really not able to see this? are you that stupid?"
"don't see the big deal, there are many other player-operated chat channels with \"no scamming\" rulesif you don't like the new rule, set up your own recruitment channel and advertise it.dhd getting banned does more good to eve than all other changes in the winter expansion combined."
"and those are governed by ccp, are they?2 hours and 10 minutes to read the post above you, and you still post this. :golfclap:"
"why would anyone look for a new corp in an unofficial recruitment channel which is just like the official one with the added 'feature' that you might get scammed? why would any legitimate recruiter be using an unofficial recruitment channel rather than the official ccp approved scam-free-zone?perhaps ccp should apply this 'no sandboxing allowed' policy to other aspects of the game. maybe a region should be a designated zone for 1v1 combat only, where ccp ban anyone who uses dishonourable tactics in pvp? maybe highsec ice belts should be a ccp-approved miner-only zone where suicide gankers are banned and all dead hulks are reimbursed by gms? maybe jita 4-4 should be for 'fair' trading only and any form of market manipulation is a petitionable offence?after all, if we don't like the new rules we could always go and sandbox somewhere else!"
"in a player run channel if i break the rules i get kicked from the channelin a ccp run channel i guess i get my account bannedthe main currency in eve is not isk or aur, its trust. in a player run channel i have to trust that the people running the channel are going to uphold the rules, that they're not colluding with scammers to take my money. those people have to earn my trust either directly or through the opinions of other people i already trust. in a ccp run channel where scamming is banned it completely removes trust from the equation. nobody has to work for my trust because it is provided for them by ccp.this is why this change is stupid."
"the logs ... they show nothing."
"the recent update of the channel motd is not a policy change, scamming was not allowed in the recruitment channel before and it was stated in the previous motd. however, the channel was still being used to scam players, hence the update and clarification of the <U+FFFD>no scamming<U+FFFD> policy. for your convenience i have included a copy of the previous motd: 'welcome to the recruitment channel. this channel is intended for those players looking to find a new corporation, as well as those looking to enlist new players. other activities, such as non-recruitment discussion and scamming are not permitted in this channel. an additional recruitment source is the alliance and corporation recruitment center section of the forums.'gm thunder senior game master eve online customer support"
"the butt-hurt by the scammers in this thread is pretty epic, but let me try and inject some semblance of reason.at no point did anyone from ccp, gm, dev, or otherwise come out and say \"scamming is not allowed in our eve.\"what they did say is \"quit scamming in this official channel created and moderated by us, ccp. we don't like it.\"as for the argument that all they have to say is \"but but they started the scam in recruitment\" that only works on a small subset of scams to begin with.if you post a scam contract in jita and someone accepts it - no problem, as long as you didn't spam the damn thing in recruitment (which, if i understand the rules of the channel, you shouldn't be doing anyway.)you should be perfectly free to post your leaving eve double your isk scams all over jita local if you like. not using the recruitment channel there.the real issue here isn't that ccp is changing what you can do in their channel; the real issue is that they suddenly cut off an endless supply of free targets. no one's told you you can't keep scamming. you're just going to have work a little harder at finding victims."
"i believe a \"lol, pwnd\" is in order here."
"actually, by my interpretation.he just clarified the older rule of no scamming in the channel, which goons don't do anyway."
"so now what's going to happen is scammer will sit an alt in the channel, and use another character to contact the target; never mentioning the recuitment channel but still using it. however, since the scout is never mentioned, there will be no evidence to show that it was used. this will result in no real effect, except that newbies that also happen to scam will have a harder time scamming idiots. to make it have an actual effect, you would have to ban recuitment scamming as a whole, and that won't end well. thus it is probably better to simply warn players not to trust anybody, than to try and stop scammers from using the channel for intel."
"um, yeah. that's what i was getting at - everyone got all butthurt about this sudden policy change in the channel when, in fact, nothing changed.thus the lol pwnd."
"except that the \"clarification\" raises more questions than it clarifies, since it appears to outlaw scammers using recruitment to identify targets but carrying out the scam in another private channel. since a huge number of recruitment scams have previously been carried out in this manner, i wonder if the gms are prepared for an avalanche of petitions from idiots who were scammed months or even years ago, since until this \"clarification\" nobody was aware that such activities were prohibited?"
"except the policy has changed. theres quite a big difference between \"you may not scam in this channel\" and \"you may not use this channel is any way to aid your scamming\". because is impossible to prove whether a mark was found through the channel or not we now have a situation where anyone in the recruitment channel is effectively immune to the consequences of their bad decisions."
"now see, there is one pretty big difference with the current motd and the old one. this paragraph right here: \"this includes, but not limited to, using the recruitment channel as a platform to find or target players to scam\" this paragraph makes you almost invulnerable to any form of scam that involves the scammer talking to the scammee in any way by simply allways be in the recruitment channel and once scammed claim you got targeted through said channel. there is also the possibility of using the channel to get ppl banned by fabricating scams and claiming you got targeted through the recruitment channel. atleast temporary during an investigation since ccps policy on bannable offences seems to be guilty until proven otherwise.edit: tl:dr: yeep beat me to it and made it clearer than i did, goddamn goons and their posting prowess..."
"and which part of that was insufficient to the point you had to add \"and this includes, but not limited to, using the recruitment channel as a platform to find or target players to scam\"? does this mean that you have outlawed, and will return assets and ban people who have scammed, if the person being scammed has been in the recruitment channel at the time they got scammed? a day before they got scammed? a week? a month?just how hazardous have you made scamming with this change?"
"fyi, you are not a very astute person. this isn't going to protect anyone and will cause nothing but heartache for you and your fellow gms. the people this policy is intended to protect (newbies) don't have anything worth stealing, unless they're dumb enough to plex their way to wealth right after they first subscribe. if they're dumb enough to plex their way to wealth, they should be allowed to learn the hard way that easy come, easy go.if anything, you're only going to make things worse. underhanded tactics are like sand: the tighter you clench your fist, the more of them that will slip through your fingers.edit: btw, ccp should probably clarify the consequences for violating this policy that was in place the whole time (heh). kicked from the recruitment channel? banned from the channel? return of assets? what?"
"stop building walls of cat shit in my sandbox"
"the current motd states that gms are not responsible for any deals made outside of the channel, but it also states that the channel may not be used to find targets. this seems like a very vague \"we might or might not enforce it, deal with it\" clause. could you clarify this? \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"i find it utterly pathetic that this thread has devolved into spliting hairs and consipiracy theroys... has anyone actaully ever been done in by said \"policy\"?a policy thats been in place for a rather long time according to a seinor gm?did it occur to people that most \"i was scammed petitions\" are likely tossed unless someone can produce a chat log as it was?are you people really that daft/dense/stupid?what is this really about?seriously?you say this policy wont' work yet you ***** and complain your brains out?what the hell is really the problem here again? or is this just a glorified troll the gm's and get away with it cause your \"big and bad\" and all dat.this is just utterly beyond stupid. i'm surprsied the gm's haven't locked this therad down and told everyone to stfu as your all throwing a damned fit over policies.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"meaning you can't use channel to find targets, then pull someone from channel into private chat in order to scam them, thus evading rule. is it too obvious, or were you hoping that the motd doesn't say what it says?"
"it was just implemented, so no.no. the changes went deeper than that.then why the addition of \"this includes, but not limited to, using the recruitment channel as a platform to find or target players to scam\"?why didn't it say that, then? the wording is wide enough that if i were to sit in the channel with this char or a neutral non-goon char and pass on information to another goon, who then proceed to scam someone who's in the recruitment channel, it'd be covered under that rule, because we'd be \"using the recruitment channel as a platform to find or target players to scam\". and since the information about players who are scammable would be transmitted out of game, there'd be no way for ccp to say either way.in other words, gm thunder has with that update created a situation where people will either be able to petition any and all scams they've endured if they've logged in to the recruitment channel, or he's created a rule which is unenforcable, and as such will only make people who do get scammed by people who aren't in the recruitment channel all the angrier because they'll be under the impression they're safe because they're in that channel."
"this here sums it up nicely.and yes, i admit the second point i made has conspiracy theory written all over it, but in my experience, what can be abused sooner or later will be abused."
"with the way the new/revised policy is now stated, it leaves even more loop-holes and unanswered questions than the previous policy. of course, people want clarification rather than simply running around like useless sheeple, especially when something they find enjoyable/profitable for their continued enjoyment of the game overall is threatened.a clear, proper, fully-formed response from the gm's is needed here, with detailed explanations of just exactly how the recruitment channel may and may not be used, whether or not people may use the recruitment channel as they have for years with compiled precedent to back up their previous usages in regards to using the channel to get marks into separate conversations, and whether or not the changes to the channel motd reflect changes in the gm's handling of scamming cases in regards to the recruitment channel that were previously not authored in any viewable form to the playerbase."
"lmao! this still going?? oh dear god. i love how some people in this thread assume the rest of eve's as underhanded, devious and as much a douche as they are.why assume anyone will cry wolf about being in the recruitment channel whilst being scammed when they are not?hell most of eve probably didn't even notice the change until this thread. chances of it actually being used in an underhanded manner have gone up significantly now that you've put the thought in their tiny minds, don't you think? way to go and shoot yourself in the foot guys :golfclap:"
"does this guy really not understand that he has made a substantial policy change by including the \"platform\" clause (not clarification) that was clearly not included before?if this is a considered and purposeful policy change, then fine. if it is one gm changing the rules on a key issue at his own whim, then he should get the chop asap."
"nobody scams newbies you dumb ****. they don't have anything to scam.they scam vets looking for new corps."
"meh i always assumed the people who fell for the goon recruitment scams were people who cold-called the goons looking to join because they heard about the goons elsewhereit should be pretty obvious if someone posts \"looking for corp\" in recruitment and you scam them 15 minutes later that you violated the rule recruit in local, set up a recruitment channel of your own, and follow the rule not that hard"
"uh scuse me?what is this bs over the little so called statement of \"we dont scam noobs\"?that's utter tripestop fooling yourselvesyou scam because you cananyoneanywhereanytimeexcept therewhich is got your shorts in a twist to be sureagainutter pathetic epic fail================ stop the evemail spam!"
"so if i stumble upon someone in local who's also in recruitment, and i scam them, what's to stop them from reporting me to ccp for \"using the recruitment channel to target him\"?"
"just because they hear about them doesn't mean they do them.the player base is heavily weighted towards high-sec and with it carebears...that's just how it is according to ccp's own numbers.most of the money is in high-sec not low/null-sec.if all of low/null-sec quit tomorrow, eve would stagger a bit and probably survive just fine.if all of high-sec, including the carebears, quit tomorrow..."
"it seems logical that a lot of the null seccers are more experienced players who like the chairman of csm6 have not paid for a subscription with cash for a long time, ccp would go from a dynamic player controlled/ based micro-transactional economy to a micro profit making company rapidly. at the very least it would hamper their ability to maintain development.as a person who enjoys this game i want to see it flourish and not wither on the vine just because a contingent of whiny afraid to undock alone players want their sandbox frozen in time an only get game improvements that increase their already huge advantage over other players."
"are you still going on about how buying plex is \"losing ccp money\"?and you're still seriously going on about \"whiny afraid to undock alone players\", while you're sitting in hisec?"
"i don't live in high sec .... you should have asked first .... and yes hive players are afraid to undock alone ..... know your own history it's easy to research .... hive players are the ones who were not smart enough to fis without getting sploded all the time so they swarm together so they can achieve a safety in numbers. like any group of rl gang members they are basically gutless. imo"
"ok, so you're not in hisec, but you're still going on about how buying plex is losing ccp money?"
"zim i feel it only fair that i disclose that i am not a child or a college age young adult who is regurgitating stuff they have only read about without real world experience. i have been an employee of a large corp as well as starting & running my own business/ llc in real life. i am a 100% capitalist but not without a moral compass. now that my employees do the work i have time to play online games and dabble in other enjoyable distractions with my time when no disasters require my direct intervention while i am here at the office.i can tell you most business models are more profitable when they have a clean connection between their product and it's consumers. middlemen and volume discounts reduce that maximum profit potential in measurable ways. why anyone would argue that is not an easily provable fact is just amazing.since the exact figures are ccp's confidential data we can fairly only discuss business models in these forums. the models i use are pretty difficult to ignore by anyone really trying to have an exchange of ideas. if you have access to facts that make my models inaccurate in regard to how ccp financials are actually being distributed/ collected please share them and i will update my comments to reflect your input. absent that my model stands waiting for a better one to replace it."
"if you were to run an mmo, would you implement a way for people to buy timecodes for less than they would pay if they did a pay pr 1 month subscription?"
"based on the success i perceive that ccp is enjoying i would think i would. but that of course would be tempered by what my profitability models projected i would have to take in to grow the company. free products find other ways to support themsleves like endless commercial pop ups which most online users dislike and think uniformly would hate to see in eve. (the we got ganked pop up in the forums being an annoying example)i don't see the ccp employees/ owners as being the clueless dolts that the current csm chairman often portrays them to be, instead i see a pioneering company that is changing the face of online gaming and is on the precipice of merging mac/pc and game console playing into one immersive player driven universe. i want that to be successful, tbh i need ccp to be successful because of the concept of \"mutual self interest\", as long as they keep making money i can enjoy this growing evolving complex game!"
"actually, i just checked. i pay $15/mo for my month to month subscription, and ccp sells 60 day timecodes for $35."
"^ this ... plex do not lose ccp money.i sub, yearly ... $10 per month (give or take).you use plex ... $17.50 per monthwho's making ccp more isk per month, hmm?look, don't even bother saying that it costs anywhere near $7.50 a month for them to keep the plex rng running..."
"are you saying that only ccp sells plex? this is not true. online merchants legally sell plex. do you know how much they get to keep and how much they have to pay to ccp to get the plex to sell? are you sure ccp has a flat rate that they charge all resellers of plex? regardless of the volume of their sales? of course you don't know. so you sit in front of your keyboard tapping in your opinion and pretend they are facts. good luck with that."
"^^^^^^^^^^^^ you prove my point. company direct to ---> consumer = maximum profit! ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^is it really that hard to understand?"
"i came to eve from a retail box product in a game store chain. the product cost $14.99 us dollars. out of that $14.99 ccp had to pay for production, shipping, and the retail merchants profit. if i had bought directly from eve online they would have had all the costs i just listed eliminated and made more profit. but in business the concept of loss leaders & discounts work, did ccp make maximum profits on that first sale? no they did not. they traded that short term profit for the chance to make a long term consumer out of a new customer. in my case it was a good investment on their part. i can't tell you how long i'll have to stay a subscriber even at the lowest annual rate for ccp to be fully reimbursed for the related costs to attract new players but i would guess they have a business model that does.because that is the way successful businesses operate. they know their costs within a time frame and then project what sales goals over that time frame will get them to the profit point they have targeted."
"um. ok, you're either changing what you're arguing, or you're awful at elucidating what it is that you're actually arguing, because what i thought you were arguing was how plexes (and by extension people who use them to keep their accounts up and running) were costing ccp money. now you're saying that what you really meant was that f.ex shatteredcrystal is getting the 60 day gtcs for less than $35 and selling them on for $35, so obviously ccp is losing money?there's a few things you're not taking into account when making this assertation, however, and that's the fact that the gtcs ccp are selling are physical items that are sent to you via post. this costs money, which means that while ccp is getting $35 in, the end result is less. shatteredcrystal probably purchase these in bulk, and as such probably gets a discount. they scan it in, put it in a database, and waits for people who needs a gtc to purchase one from them. it's sent to the customer via email, which doesn't cost much. shatteredcrystal wins, ccp wins.in fact, ccp probably wins for multiple reasons: when you can get the gtc within half an hour (or less) after you've ordered it, you're more inclined to actually buy it, than if you have to buy it and wait a few days for it to arrive in your physical mailbox. so the velocity of the gtcs is higher."
"i admit to sometimes being awful at how clearly i may say things, that quickly gets multiplied when someone is trying to protect their tearful leader. they attack a comment that is clearly factual because it put their icon in a poor light. i believe the business model that best supports the long term viability of ccp is what should be advocated by players who voluntarily stepped up to accept elected titles to work on behalf of the \"greater good of the greater player base\" to do less is shortsighted destructiveness."
"pray tell, which comment have i \"attacked\" which is clearly factual?"
"ok, so back to square 1 ... ccp does not \"lose\" money on selling gtc as compared to a sub. <-- we all agree on this apparently.gtc have an opportunity cost associated with them for ccp -- sell them to us poor slobs at $35 per, or sell them to e.g. shatteredcrystal for say $27,50 per (who then sell them to us at $35 per). now, we're assuming it's a \"i sell to you, you sell to the players\" relationship between ccp and shattered crystal et al., and not a \"you're just getting a portal to our rng, and we'll pay you $n per month based on how many gtc you sell\"since neither of the parties (you, me, other posters) has access to the volume sold from one source or the other (or the sales model), we can assume that ccp makes up for the differences between direct sales (which they do) and selling through resellers via sheer volume sold at the other retail outlets. if they didn't, then they probably would encourage buying from them directly rather than through the likes of shattered crystal.box sets (like you bought) are simply another avenue for them to get people hooked so they start paying their $10 - $15 per month, and may seriously just be a break-even product, assuming a certain number of accounts sub that month..."
"prey tell? isn't that what forum tears are made of! lol i was not reflecting on your comments zim. even if i don't agree with you, you have demonstrated the willingness to follow a discussion to a conclusion."
"why not just move your locked targets to another part of the screen? would be easier than ccp allocating their dwindling workforce to work on a very small problem, especially as distance to target is on the overview anyway."
"i didn't know you could move the \"locked icons\" on the top of your screen anywhere...."
"i play a fair bit of fallout new vegas and one thing that keeps me coming back even though i've got 500h of gametime on it is that i haven't completed all the achievements. sometimes i wonder what to do next in eve... we already have the medal system, so perhaps medals could be corp awarded or concord awarded. this already exists to a limited extent with fw. imagine if you could make these public in your toontitan kill medalbillion tonne destroyed medalmajor power leadership (director of exec corp of alliance with 1000 members?)mined a million (units of asteroids?)circumnavigation (bronze/silver/gold/unobtanium - visited 25/50/75/100% of the eve systems)master interdictor (scrammed/bubbled 1000 ships)deep space adventurer (completed 100 sites in 0.0)etc. there could be levels of each (bronze/silver etc) that would supersede each other, with the entry levels being friendly and low for new players. they should all reflect actual gameplay accomplishments instead of just training."
"dear god, consolitis in eve too?"
"personally i like achievements, i would vote for them..."
"we already have certificates and corps can award medals for anything they can think of. both of these can be made public.kills stats are again public on the various killboards so we do already have these things in place.think ccp have better things to be getting on with.don't support this idea at all."
"no, because there are so many things in this game which aren't something that an achievement system could monitor. also, because there are so many ways people would just game the system to get more achievements.i don't see it adding any play value to the game, and will actually hurt fleet performance when the guy you need to be doing one thing goes off and does something else so he can get some stupid medal."
"from the other thread, the biggest fight seems to be that off-grid ganglink ships do have a counter: probing. but probing these ships is rather difficult.why not have a significant stacking penalty for activating many, many ganglinks like boosting sig radius/slowing the ship down? if you want an (basically) unscannable off-grid booster that can move with any kind of speed, you have to use only one, maybe two links. if you want 6 ganglinks, your ship will be hella slow with a massive sig which can be easily probed..."
"my god the tears adapt or die"
"i like you, can i keep you as a pet?"
"this was recently posted:first off i'd like to recommend we all refer to this as the skunkworks warning. if you don't know why, get over to c&p to find out what we've been up to that is the likely cause of this. okay fine, don't. but i will :)i can't speak for all the members of skunkworks, but i have been advocating for this change since we started all this two weeks ago. i have no objection to this, as i agree it's not right that someone can commit an act which yields aggression without knowing they've done so. as i've said before, sometimes the best way to get something fixed quickly is to abuse the hell out of it until ccp has to move. over 200 highsec incursion kills in two weeks is apparently enough to cause a patch.that said, this patch removes the last justification for logis not inheriting the 60 second timer that prevents them from docking or using gates to escape aggression. there's no excuse for them to be allowed to aid someone engaging in aggression without being flagged for that aggression as well. so this is my proposal:a logistics pilot cannot dock or jump through a gate until 60 seconds after they stopped repairing an aggressing target, or their rep target's own aggression timer runs out."
"not supported. it's a logi, it can't shoot you, bring more dps."
"remote support is a force multiplier and either enhances the performance of the supported ship or hinders the performance of its enemy. they shouldn't get a free pass just because they don't directly fire on anyone.edit: i've never lost a ship to the neutral rr whores who dwell in highsec. i've even killed a few. it's about making the game mechanics consistent and reasonable.also, you've demonstrated a consistent lack of comprehension of how aggression mechanics work in other threads. i'm not sure you're particularly qualified to comment on this with any kind of authority."
"honestly im all for this change, me and my buddies used to use neutral rr's in high-sec all the time, then we got broed of it. i guess we just got over analytical about it one day and reasoned that in rl you get in trouble for aiding and abbeding criminals, so why not in eve? after that discussion about 4 or so months ago, we just got bored of the tactic.tl;dr this makes high-sec \"pvp\" more balanced and less one-sided / riskfree, makes sense logically, and encourages more people to recruit suicide australians for their gank-fleets, all reasons im happy for this change."
"i do agree that logis shouldn't walk off scot-free when repping someone who has an aggression timer or whatnot. however: you cannot make the 60 second gate/station aggression timer be refreshed to its full 60 seconds each time you rep someone with said timer. otherwise the 60 second timer will keep bouncing back and forth between cap-chaining and/or mutually tanking logistics ships, rendering them unable to disengage from the fight with the gang's dps. this leads to the logistics becoming separated from the dps ships (they dock/jump through, you don't because your timer is going and going and going) and/or simply being forced to sit there and get blown up, unable to tank the incoming dps by buffer and speed/sig alone. (which will make logis worse than worthless in lowsec, among other things.)for more details, see aamrr's thread in the assembly hall speaking to the same topic."
"so shut down your cap chain so you can dock/jump.better yet, ccp fixes this right so that this is taken into account and aggression can't be recycled in this way, it has to come off a target that is truly aggressing."
"fixing pve with incursion therapy.what i am about to suggest here is incredibly radical. i mean the text book definition of the word, not the, <U+FFFD>that<U+FFFD>s totally radical man!<U+FFFD> version. if your happy with pve the way it is in eve do not read the rest of this post because what i<U+FFFD>m suggesting will drive you nuts. just back out and forget you saw this.tldr: all rats are racial incursion rats wherever you find themratting changesinstead of offering racial incursions have each system be as if its under a racial incursion all the time, minus the whole control penalties and warning sirens etc. system security status no longer determines the size of the rats, but the frequency a racial incursion rat will appear in a system after its destroyed. 1.0 noob systems will have 0% chance of rats spawning. considering if an incursion style rat appeared in a belt it would wipe out anything there. there dps and tank will be equivalent to sanshas. yes omni damage as well. these rats will also be smart enough to warp off if they<U+FFFD>re loosing a fight to encourage players to pack tackle.this takes care of ratting bots because these rats wont be able to be solo<U+FFFD>d any longer. this is the big change to missions.each mission will be like a small incursion that can be run by 5 -10 people. gates will be present at all of them to limit ship entry type just to make it interesting. this means lvl 1 <U+FFFD> 4 will be less about quantity of rats and more about what size ships get used to run them.how do you make t1 frigates not suck in these mini incursions? all though assault ships will be preferable for dps and survivability. the incursion rats that would appear in these lvl 1 missions would have bad tracking so a t1 frigate could still evade their fire. merlins and punishers people will dig for these. similar adjustments must be made for other t1 ships like cruisers and bc. clearly bs can handle incursions of all sorts we<U+FFFD>ve seen this. lvl 0 missions old school lvl 1 missions nubs have to cut their teeth on something they can soloa lvl 1 mission would be like only taking down a hand full of ships in a single wave with maybe one trigger for an additional wave. frigates, assault ships, t1 t2 logi. destroyers.a lvl 2 mission would be like taking down two waves with a couple of triggers for additional waves. frigates, assault ships t1 t2 logi + recons and t1 cruisersa lvl 3 mission would be like taking down three waves with a couple of triggers for additional waves. frigates, assault ships, hacs, battle cruisers t1 t2 logi + recons t1 cruisers.a lvl 4 would essentially be a full on vanguard. anything you<U+FFFD>d use for a vanguard.other then isk and faction standing each type of mission lvl 1 <U+FFFD> 4 must have unique rewards. maybe in lvl 1<U+FFFD>s there<U+FFFD>s a very small chance you might get a really rare implant or bpc dropping like 1 in 10. maybe in lvl 4<U+FFFD>s your likely to get a decent implant and bpc more often 1 in 3. lvl 2 <U+FFFD> 3 could be in between these in varying degrees. or maybe mission rewards you can exchange for aurum. the idea hear is lvl 1 -4 missions aren<U+FFFD>t about you work through one to get to the other, but to offer different kinds of missions for people to fly. you want a big bs fleet fight, great run a level four, you want to tear it up with assault ships do a lvl 1. each fight will have a different feel to them. you know how people say which makes more isk, faster lvl 3 or steady lvl 4<U+FFFD>s, people should ask themselves these questions about all these types of missions. the only thing that should limit a groups income from group missions should be the ships they fly in them, and there technique, not the mission level.agro will have to be managed in most of these. who ever warps in to the incursion first gets agro is how incursions currently work then rats cycle their targets. that may have to change with these. where every one gets into position the tank gets in position pulls agro reps start up and people start laying on the dps.if it doesn<U+FFFD>t already exist there needs to be a threat table for ewar like: 1.ecm, 2. sensor damps, 3.tracking disruptors, 4.target painters. anything that makes a rat loose their lock clearly would make their group go ballistic, if sensor damps set to range disruption could potentially make a rat loose their lock this would pull agro from rat groups.if ccp increased the number of agents in null sec their wouldn<U+FFFD>t be a need anomilies at all, because the rewards would be comparable. ded complexes would have to be probable incursion missions essentially that are static.some people are saying at this point its impossible for noobs to figure this out. i say with the right npe teaching them about transversal and ewar etc you could. lets face it pve in hack and slash mmo<U+FFFD>s is already that complicated. run a 5 or ten man dungeon in any mmo and there<U+FFFD>s tons of steps and dos and don<U+FFFD>ts to win sticky fights, its what makes pve relatively interesting in those games. were merely applying the same philosophy to our game, and ours happens to have a more complicated interface. face roll left click doesn<U+FFFD>t win the day all the time in eve.these changes could clearly increase the relevance of mission running corps. these missions need to have multiple objectives. destroy a prototype battle ship and blow up the ship yard that built it too. to do that you have to move explosives to a can next to it. or farm them off spawns till those explosives drop. something along the lines of that. i do agree. with the wrong kind of npe new players will find even in groups these missions impossible, but with the right npe experience and a little player given guidance they will apply the same things they have learned in hack and slash party mmo<U+FFFD>s to ours. your not corrupting eve with the features of a on the rail hack and slash mmo, your giving players from those games a reference point into our vibrant dynamic world."
"change sov null sanctum and belt rats to incursion rats. this will fix sov null. not supported for rest."
"^^ ditto from me."
"off topic posts removed. please stay on topic and polite, thank you."
"thank you sir"
"help save low sec! check this out!"
"fixing mining: heterogeological asteroids mining asteroids that have a variety of ore in them.instead your overview shows the cubic meters of an asteroid estimated.your surveyor then shows the ore content of the asteroid in percentages.you lock the asteroid and as you activate your mining laser you go into focus mode where you<U+FFFD>re zoomed in on the asteroid you actually see the veins of ore in it. then you set coordinates for your mining lasers to travel across the surface of the asteroid. how this interface works could be stripped from pi its just visually it would look different. these targeting co-ordinates would appear as little icons on the asteroid you would essentially rotate the asteroid and pin them to the surface of it. each time you did this you would have to put down the same number of co-ordinates and there would have to be a minimum distance to set them apart to get max yield on the rock. so for instance lets say you scrunch all your co-ordinate markers together on a omber vein in a roid. if they<U+FFFD>re too close together you might get more omber content in your yield, but far less m3 in your yield over all then if you would have set them the proper length apart. the more of those points that land on an ore vein give you more of that ore until its gone. once the cycle is done you will need to repeat the process or if the ore you want is gone from the asteroid, switch to another one that has it. in order for this to work cycle times and yield would have to be increased for normal mining lasers for this to be viable, it could probably stay the same for strip miners. and since ice only yields one unit a pop im not sure how best to alter the yield on ice miners. it<U+FFFD>s a puzzle slightly similar to how pi works. why reinvent the wheel.congratulations bot mining is dead. the peasants rejoice. this could give people the opportunity to get small amounts of rarer ores in higher sec. small traces of low sec ore would be found in empire, and small traces of null sec ore would be found in low sec. the roids containing the best mixes of rare ores would appear null sec. this also solves the wh conundrum. you just set it where worm holes are a complete mixed bag. all there roid ore content is completely random and not based off high low, null asteroid ore content rules. maybe to limit intake you just have it be where the c class of the wh determines the size of the asteroids in it.also the different variety<U+FFFD>s of a single ore could appear in only certain areas of space. take veldspar. in empire mining a roid with veldspar would only be basic veldspar. but in lowsec it would be condensed velds, and in null sec it would be dense veldspar.this would either give an opportunity to add more mining skills(another isk sink) or create more roles for the present mining skills. very much like in pi, some or one of your mining skills would be about locating the ore veins on each roid accurately. this adds an element of technique and exploration to mining. people who whine about this being too involved should be glad this change could actually makes it engaging to mine. if its that hard to do guess what, once the bots vanish, and people stop mining because they have to put their book down every 5 mins, and take three minutes to scan and mark, mineral prices will go up and people will want to do it again. actual animation for mining could get slightly more interesting because of a change like this. as the laser pulses it also could get moved around like its tracking the co-ordinates that were placed on the roid.which ever laser cycles first your or others grabs the yield. to kill carpal tunnel inducing click this stuff has to be simple, right click hold spins the asteroid left click drops a pin. maybe a little slider thingy to show ore content and concentration like in pi. to those that like to mine with like 6 characters and a 7th in an orca. if you cant your competition cant. you can still get the hulk out their and the orca. if people are wielding fewer accounts at once there<U+FFFD>s fewer minerals on the market people will pay more for them and you will still make a killing, while at the same time pulling more <U+FFFD>actual individuals<U+FFFD> into the noble but maligned profession of mining. ccp. if your worried you<U+FFFD>ll loose money because of this. you wont. people who mine with that many accounts pay for them with plex. that<U+FFFD>s why they do.please believe me when i say i<U+FFFD>m not trying to butcher some one else<U+FFFD>s cash cow, i<U+FFFD>m just trying to make mining more interesting and screw botters at the same time."
"it would be useful to have a motd for a gang/fleet channel where basic fleet information such as ship types could be posted making fleet administration somewhat easier. original 2008 proposal2008 csm submissionlast reference i could find to this idea was 2008 and i think its worth revisiting."
"off topic posts removed. please stay on topic and polite."
"undecided on this one.although it does seem trivial, it does add a little more depth to eve.however, there are other more important things to take up ccp's time so i would probably add that one to the 'nice to have if you have a spare moment' category."
"another thread that i hope ccp totally ignore.totally disagree with the op, agree with everyone else.fact of eve life, someone will always be at a disadvantage due to tz issues. either put up with it or move to iceland."
"as it should be, what you would like is for these ships to be even more vulnerable than they already areminers already have the worst job and worst pay in the game with the highest risk because they are in the worst possible combat capable ships - **** shields, armor, repsand you'd like to nerf mining even more because you're a piece of **** ?grats ***"
"now that ccp are ~doing stuff~, i'd like to see one of the longest-standing gameplay issues get a little attention.so imagine that you put a 500m bounty on malcanis, whom i'm sure we all agree richly deserves it. under the current system, i will simply jump to an empty clone and pod himself with an alt, collecting your 500 mill, less the cost of a new clone. malcanis: 480,000,000 you: 0. the current system is worthless to you.transferrable killrights tied to bounty contracts, with payouts based on hull and destroyed module value are the most obvious solution, with plenty of scope to make exploitation reasonably difficult. that stops me using a joe random alt to create the bounty, although it might enourage me to use bait alts (i am ok with people doing this).for instance, we could design the contract system so that the person placing the bounty contract can restrict who can accept that bounty by taking a cue from the fleet finder; the bounty contract could be restricted to \"people in my corp\" \"people in my alliance\" \"people i have set a positive standing\" or even \"anyone i haven't set a negative standing\" or just \"anyone\". the looser the restrictions you set, the more people can accept it and show me their ammo, but the greater the chance that someone you don't want to accept it (ie: me or my friends) will be able to collect.likewise, bounty hunters could accept for themselves, for their corp or for their alliance. bounty contracts accepted on behalf of corp/alliance are paid direct to corp/alliance when collected. this is to encourage the formation of bounty hunting corps/alliances, who would encourage aggrieved bounty-placers to set them blue, and who would thereby depend on their reputations. it allows groups of less powerful players to work together to collect a bounty, but it also allows for solo bounty hunters. bounty hunting corps which carelessly allow malcanis alts into their ranks to \"steal\" the bounty contracts will quickly lose their reputation and be excluded from further business.and the payout per kill on the bounty should be limited to less than the irretrievable loss from that kill, allowing the bounty payout to cover multiple losses if it's high enough.under the system i envisage, i would have to have an alt who is in a corp or alliance you've set to +ve standings to even accept the bounty contract. that 500m bounty would then be paid out according to the losses that i suffer. for example, if my clone costs 20 mill, then the bounty paid for podding me would be 10m. if i was wearing a pair of +4 implants, which cost 12m +12k lp from the lp store, then a further 24m gets paid for podding me. likewise, the bounty paid for destroying my ship would be 2/3 of the effective npc value of the hull - which we could usefully define here as the cost of a platinum insurance premium. so if someone blows my maelstrom up, they get ~35m or so (can't recall the exact value).after the killrights expire, so does the bounty contract, with any remaining unpaid bounty being repaid. it might be worth extending killrights to 60 or 90 days, or possibly making them cumulative. but i am against making them last indefinitely.this way even if i do manage to somehow get my alt in a position to accept the bounty, i will find it difficult and unprofitable to use that alt to collect it. not impossible, but at least that way the bounty you place is very far from simply being a free gift as it is now."
"sounds much better then the current implementation, where ppl use it to look cool in overview that will effect all suicide gankers...so at least the goons will not support it sadly"
"looks like a sound plan from a quick glance and certainly a huge improvement over the current totally useless bounty system.try to obsess about goons a little less. the topic has nothing to do with them and from personal experience they are generally supportive of ideas, that improve the overall gameplay in eve."
"that's funny, because i do, actually. i know it's a ~shocking thought~, but there has to be lots of people in the game for us to be able to scam and grief effectively. the better this game is in general, the better our game gets, even if it means that we ruin the game for some people who are too gullible by scamming them.as to malcanis' suggestion, i know i said in the other thread that i saw some holes, but i re-read the proposal a second and third time, and the holes i thought were there isn't actually there, or if they're there, they'll need someone with more time to spare than i have. it seems a fairly solid suggestion, and it would certainly make the act of actually putting a bounty on someone worthwhile, instead of just being the free gift it is now."
"actually, i just thought of something. what's to stop someone from essentially griefing someone by repeatedly putting up a bounty? a gentleman's agreement?"
"the bounty contract requires a killright.incidentally, in addition to the ability to restrict the contract offer to corp/alliance/standings, i'd like to add the ability to restrict the offer based on sec status.edit i just realised that the bounty contract doesn't require a killright if the bounty is placed on someone with -5.00 or lower sec status. anyone could put a bounty on a red flashy criminal and \"grief\" them with bounties forever. i am fine with this. if people actually start doing this, it will be a fine boost for lo-sec. if any criminals get sick of being bounty-hunted, they're free to rat their sec up, at which point the \"killright\" on them due to sec status effectively expires and the bounty contracts on them become invalid."
"the bounty system has needed fixing as long as i can remember, supported."
"a similar idea was proposed a few weeks ago. working up a proposal is on my to-do list."
"excellent! a working bounty system will solve so many hi-sec issues, and create some really good gameplay possibilities.the important thing is to plug as many of the exploitation holes as possible, and i like to think i've struck a good balance with my proposal.(coming up this weekend: malc's thoughts on wardecs)"
"supported."
"value for value. this is the core of working bounty-hunting system. everything else is flavor."
"being able to restrict who can accept your contract is pretty important too."
"something i thought of but haven't really worked through all the details of: what if the bounty hunter was paid out from a mixture of the bounty on the target's head and the criminal's normal insurance payout?"
"nah i'm not in favour of that, because it penalises legitimate gameplay. the idea is to promote pvp, not discourage it."
"yep, missed that one.agreed."
"have it be that you can only put up a bounty after a concord recognized act of unprovoked aggression against you (low or highsec) that causes a ship loss (and or pod loss) within the same time frame you have killrights. when in station in the bounty thingy people with kill rights can apply bounty to any ones they have kill rights for.but yea any sort of loophole/exploit should be fixed or we could have a worse problem then a unused feature."
"that one.which i think is more elegant in its simplicity, even though it eschews the topic of kill-rights. baby steps, you know? :)"
"they will"
"doesn't exactly mean anything but a dev blowing smoke out of his ass until there is an official dev blog on the matter. any dev that wants to step up to the plate and let us know what the current plans are in regard to this thread...you are more than welcome to."
"basically just create a system similar to pieach asteroid is targetted, scanned and red/green sectors are present on the roid to show mineral depositsred areas are targetted and mining commencesasteroid changes size approximately every x numbers of cycles after minerals are drained and roid is pulled apart slowly by operationsrescan and recommence mining on new sectorsstop the devaluation of isk!botters + rmt + plex = isk becomes less worth the effort real miners have to put in = less miners = more botters able to find a foothold in the marketkill all bots"
"kill all bots?"
"yeah sorry, fixed ;)"
"ok, but let me point this out to you, generating this (similar to pi) takes a few seconds to get in and out of, and assuming you haev an alt watching the belt so you know that a ganker jst warped in, it would still take you a while to exit out and run all i see is this making it easier for gankers to nab miners since miners would be zoomed in on a roid and unable to see the area around them"
"wait, you mean miners aren't half afk and are actually paying attention?that said, bots use ocr, so no, it won't stop botting"
"yes lets over complicate mining to an extreme levelvery bad bad ideanot worstbut not good either================ stop the evemail spam!"
"supported for hull tanking.\"baby, my love is bomb come on the bomb the twist!\""
"1. i don't run incursions so i have little personal interest in making them profitable outside of some faction items i sell to those who do.2. i am interested in risk vs. reward as a driving force in eve in general. i do a bit of bounty/ lp whoring for casual play and income. depending on the agent's yield this earns 40-60 mil an hour. i use a somewhat (bil or so give or take) expensive ship because i just want to run them fast and get on to other elements of the game that are less profitable and more interesting. so your math of a consistent 80m/hr means that an incursion-er in a ship that costs twice as much as my mission boat is earning 140-200% of what i am. in addition to this he has to have a trusted team, online at the same time, and coordinated enough to make dozens of jumps (in which time they are not earning anything) to start earning their iskies for the day. both of us are at fairly low risk. their reward is higher for a lot more effort and organization than i can be bothered with. that does not seem unfair to me. raising the payouts in null sec is probably a good idea. given that holding sov securely takes a hell of a lot more organization and involves a lot more risk. as far as i can see the highest reward for the lowest risk in hisec is ganking and ninjaing. both involve minimal risk when done competently and have large payouts for the time invested. if risk v reward is your concern take a peek at that dynamic."
"ok gainking in hs is a compleatly different matter.the effort of moving to a different incursion system is totaly on the player. the fleet that he will most likely join is already running incursions and when he gets there he will join a fleet from one of the incursion channels and hay presto hes now making bank for minimal effort.in actuality when a dedicated incursion runner will remain in one constellation for the duration of the incursion (sticking to 1-3 systems for vanguards). when that incursion dies the channel moderators pick new incursion focus's for their respective tanking choices and travel to the designated constellation. they will rinse and repeat this. so travel times don't relay factor in to it all that much. as stated b4 a change to payout of the isk would bring incursions in line with other hs pursuits while still retaining the edge in iskphnote: that i dont want to change pl payouts (if anything i would increase all lp rewards by 25%) after all concord lp is the most versatile non transferable asset in game."
"i just threw ganking in as the high end of low risk high reward hisec activities. though ninja has it beat. what i was really pointing out is the degree of effort and coordination to me implies that incursions should pay significantly better than missions. i don't have to wait for missions to spawn. i do not have to cultivate a motivated coordinated group of individuals to run missions. i can decide to get on and earn for an hour and stop without risking losing this support infrastructure to someone who plays more often. if i have a 60 hour week and do not play much my agent still has a slot open for me. what i am saying is a get an awful lot of latitude for earning a little bit less. which seems fair to me."
"so can recons have a smaller sig too? bellicose sig ~110, rapier sig ~130 iirc"
"as a fellow recon pilot, i could get behind that - but i'd rather see the eafs get some love (we have other tricks up our sleeves as recon pilots)."
"supported. eaf's are a dead-end skill (not needed for progression to another hull), are seen as generally poor ships, and too expensive for what they do. anything done to change this is for the better."
"their*"
"good reply and good information to knownow about my missing ogre ii's"
"yeah i put a billing/accounting enquiry in well over 24 hours ago still nothingit's basically keeping me from playing, admittedly i caused the issue, but still taking a long time to even get an answer as to if they are willing to fix itkinda blows your averages out of the wateredit: although also, i think our gm's are pretty nice and decent guys i've sat and chatted with them over questions i had a few times and got myself some decent answers to questions had i asked the questions on the forums the threads would've just been trolled to deathie not just a machine based automaton like gm's in wow etc they have opinions and will answer if asked pretty cool that they will do that"
"i don't think you understand the concept of \"average\""
"i replied to your petition now and hopefully the issue is fully resolved"
"surely is, thanks a heap(see what i mean?)"
"i recently had a character stuck issue where an old cyno alt of mine needed to go through the character creation process - a gm contacted me, then requested permission to log into my account, and created a character on my behalf (i had done this process of creation before but this particular character wasn't cooperating?)the gm - gm libra luna - was even nice enough to reply to my 'thank you and have a great weekend' response i have to say i felt good as a player and a customer, having had what felt like a personalized interaction with one of our gm team members!so, while not always convinient, my personal experience is that having something tangible for a gm to compare against (ie log server) helps protect all players - thought granted the log needs to be much much better - could you imagine the 1000's of petitions when someone in goons or another major alliance find a bug and then all go crazy using it to justify a replacement request?one question i have for gm panzer:in games i have played previously, the gm's work off an unofficial policy that first replacement request is always 'no', this then weeds out bogus claims only those players that demand an escalation are taken seriously, and then their petition is actually investigatedrather than ask if ccp applies this specific procedure, and create emo rage for the community services department - let me ask if this tends to be the industry standard on handling petitions, and if ccp has the same, or different/ more innovative approach to handling reimbursement requests? (such as clearer filters to distinguish between items lost in a station/hangar and something lost due to combat?)"
"also one thing more comes to mind:gm panzer: has the customer relations department ever considered internally maintaining a metric on players that submit legitimate reimbersement requests as opposed to those that attempt to abuse the system?not suggesting any pilot be singled out for past 'offenses', but wonder if this has ever been done in the past/considered/ attempted/ or is currently done to improve efficiency by improving 'routing' of petitions based on prioritizationthis way even a repeat offender will still get his 'hearing' with a gm, but it may not necessarily be as fast as someone that has always submitted legitimate petitions??"
"but how do you determine if a request is legitimate or not since the logs never show anything? for my case as an example how is ccp going to prove that i wasn't stuck?"
"ya it would be nice to see them all changed in some aspect change how station games play out"
"oh no, i'm not saying it's not a fair request or anything, just pointing out there are ways around it atm that don't require ccp to do anything.i hate the gallente outposts because of the stupid spine things when you undock. forever getting stuck on them.make all outposts egg shaped, same docking range and no stupid spine things i can get stuck on."
"then you get banned, which improves the eve experience for the rest of us"
"how, pray tell, does it improve our experience?"
"no supportmaking mountain out of molehillor pole vaulting over mouse turdsyou pick"
"your experience isn't important, just ours \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority they rarely object to what you put into their mouths\" - abrazzar"
"that's not what i asked"
"this thread is overflowing with sweet, delicious tearsplease post pics/videos of yourselves crying a river for true justice"
"i personally think that all scamming that's not at a corporate security level should be bannedno market scams, no corp joining scams, just noif someone wants to join a corp and take its' wallet, that is a different thing that has more to do with the corp internal security preying on individuals is a different matter it's not new player friendly and certainly shouldn't be allowed in the recruitment forum+1 ccp!"
"let me repeat what's been repeated in this thread and others ad nauseum:new players are not worthwhile scam marks \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority they rarely object to what you put into their mouths\" - abrazzar"
"i guess this question is a ~hard~ question"
"the only hard thing here is your thick skull[s]very dense if you ask me and i'm not speaking of materials either================ stop the evemail spam!"
"page 1 of the troll handbook 101:if you're asked a question you can't answer, try to insult the other guy's intelligence"
"among all that goons, there must exist 2 brain cells to rub together"
"i would like to say that i will continue playing eve in the middle to long term though certain cosmetic restrictions are anoying.i have played many mmo's and half of them have gone free 2 play with micro-transactions. with the world economy as it is now is a good time to consider the following.1) micro-transactions have a wide scope of services1a) eve could go free 2 play , example would mean smaller client download size. install content as required if you have say only 1 character slot , and only the region of space for your race. say can only fly around in amarr space since you chose that race. buy from ingame store other space regions .1b) buy other services like character slots. and this could be expanded1c) in-game store currency could be acquired through selling special loot items to npc vendor , real world currency , a 6 or 12 month subscriber would get x amount of in-game store currency per month.2) the content which you might not want would be to walk around in space stations ,3) player owned space stations could have custom design interiors and exteriors based on the content bough from the in-game store through micro-transactions.4) going to the planets surface could also be extra content from the store.now is the time to work and perfect a micro-transaction system that works for eve before eve is just left with the addicts.else you end up with the following scenario1) those who play eve are addicts1a) the addicts will try and play for free buy exchanging isk for game time1b) even if addicts have 2 out of 10 accounts funded by subscriptions and they do not buy etc since they have enough iskthen who buys the etc for the addicts to use to keep the other accounts running.2) if the number of active accounts who are on a subscription fall below y % of x % then ccp will need to rethink their payment options.i have one example now you might not be interested in this mmo , but they failled to create the free 2 play properly and just limited it to a zone.a better solution like champions online , dc universe online , star trek online , age of conan online , lord of the rings online although lotro went f2p in late q3 / start of q4 in 2010 .... you have to wonder what free 2 play with a correct that works for eve would do not only to the number of unique players (not those with multiple characters and accounts) but also the revenue for ccp. final example is world of tanks mmo from wargaming.net and is doing very well for its self since it is completely free 2 play but has a prestiege \"elite\" mode which is only unlocked through gold currency which you can buy for real world money or by winning events.this is all pure speculation but as i said above now is the time to develop a business subscription hybrid model using micro-transactions for eve and do i need to remind everyone about the italian and greek debt the countries have. the global finacial pain will not go away for a few years maybe with us for the rest of this decade."
"everything about your proposal is an abomination. no."
"op, please get in the biomass queue.just follow the arrows, it will all be over soon."
"firstly i find those replies to my op and proposal very narrow minded. my opinion on those who reply without even picking apart the op's original post is even lower. to just say its wrong , \"abomination\" and fail to have any proper criticism is really poor.to me you are like a politician with high levels of national debt and you just want to put you head in the sand ignore any problems and hope it goes away. the other view is that you are just rich and pay <U+FFFD>131.40 per account and you have 10 accounts , well in that case you are just trying to escape life spend your money as you see fit and ignore the world around you.to download the client is 4gb . with limited free 2 play and micro-transactions this could be a ~1 to 1.5 gb download then content and systems could be installed in a few 500mb packs.even with highspeed broadband 4gb for some can take a while and now both traffic management and shaping profiles via isp's to prevent bit torrent hogs and the heavy filesharing.the modular client works well with micro-transactions yes i know my proposal is a double edged sword and i doubt if everyone will like it. i know former players of eve may return and anything which would increase the number players all connected at the same time can only be a good thing for ccp.you have to remember than ccp though privately owned still had to employ people and pay salaries. even if ccp may or may not be for profit anything that increases market share of the mmo industry , increase revenue would never be ignored by ccp.the fact is no one not even i can say that my proposal will never happen but why wait and then not be happy with the result when we could try and be part of the development of the system to one that will work for the future benefit of eve and ccp."
"get lost get out get biomassedi will not fall prey to the bull#### that is microtransaction [not]free to play bull####================ stop the evemail spam!"
"there's a single simple fix needed to drastically improve this service and none of your stuff is it:microtransactions - they should be micro.items on a micro-transaction store should not cost more than a couple of euros/dollars/etc each, right now we have a \"mega-transactions\" store."
"not empty quoting this."
"the quote. it is not empty."
"sorry i don't want to tell my friends to play eve then tell them they have to buy access to the system i'm in and buy access to the skills they need and oh wait they're gonna have to buy more access to use contracts then right? screw the whole thing let's just make this mabinogi.:l"
"free to play is for b-team games.having to pay bunch of money for every single upgrade to get all the content is bullshit. all in one and even playing field is better. ccp better keep it cosmetic junk. i don't want none of this other junk.anyway if you want to play for free, plex.not plexing you can play free with trial accounts anyway, just keep remaking them. they have lots of restrictions in amount of skills and what can be trained. so if you poor and don't know how to make isk, do that. thats your heavily restricted gameplay with no cost for you on the house.anyway, why have download slower for trial accounts, they want to get people in to the game not out. its not like dling the client will happen every day for each player. it costs them to have servers doing that, but its a investment that returns itself."
"z"
"since it seems so important to soem people you get actual \"criticism\".this model is not meant for eve, its meant for 2 kinds of people...the first kind is devoted enough to the game to spend 15 usd or equivalent a month to play the gamethe second is deovted enough to the game to devote weekends and weeknights in the game to accumulating money to pay for their next month with a plex put on the market by some kid from a country with a better economy and more money.as long as both of these people are the oens that truly dominate eve's active playerbase, then the subscription style will be the preffered and more efficient median for game access. allowing those that are truly devoted and into the game to play with little issue, and those that arent too impressed or dont play seriously enough to decide whether this game is really for them. the latter group will eventually either realize the game is not for them and move on, or come to the forums and whine about how the game needs to change to be like every other mmo out there because apparenlty bandwagons are good.please realize that the only way to get eve a larger subscription abse is to make it even more different from currently existing mmos, and not to make it more similar. making eve like other mmos puts it in a market that it cannot compete in, as eve is a game centered around difficulty and gradual progression, and between this and a casual-gamers mmo, if both play similar, they will always choose the casual."
"just go die already, i've no spare empathy for those who want such ******** ideas."
"supported and liked for the following reasons...eventually eve will have to move towards f2p as this is the general trend of mmo's if ccp wishes to grow the population of eve further. as more and more mmo's are released that are f2p, fewer and fewer people are going to take a risk playing eve when they can go do something else for free. the reason current mmo's are going f2p is because they can make more money off of microtransactions with a higher number of free subscribers playing the game than they did with a lower number of paid subscribers at $15 a month. it is as simple as that. these mmo's aren't going f2p because they failed like some people seem to think. that makes no sense at all. \"our game is failing and we can't afford to keep the servers up...so lets make it free.\". sorry...swing and a miss. they are going f2p because there is more money to be made in microtransactions than in pure subscriptions.if ccp wants to take eve into a sort of f2p model like lotro where you still have to pay a sub to do certain things and swing more heavily on cosmetic microtransactions then ifor one fully support them in that decision."
"yes you can. there's a (very) small icon just next to the overview at the top. right click on that and you can move the icons around to suit you.will post a screen shot of it for you when i get a chance or someone else could be kind enough to do it."
"worth a thousand wordsyou cannot reject it if you have ever sold your mission loot,this makes it 100 times quicker."
"gm thunder,you misunderstand the motd, maybe you are new to the team, maybe you read it as you wish it was.you see, it is saying that non-recruitment discussion and non-recruitment scamming are not permitted. in english it is implied on the second term. if it were the way you are reading it it would say:very large difference."
"yes lets start yet an another thread over a riduclous stupid subject and bang it to death like it some dead horse because that is the smart thing to do.brillant..simply brillant.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"welcome to the 'reply all' problem. in complaining about the thing you've sucessfully bumped it back up to everyone's attention. please think of the children and don't hit reply all."
"u mad bro?"
"straight livid bro, straight livid."
"points for rolling with the punches. :)================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"ftfy. when critiquing other people's language skills, it helps to have some of your own i'll agree with you that it is clearer if the compound term is written after the conjunction, and it could also have been clarified using an oxford comma, but your interpretation is only one of many."
"i lol'd heartily +1*sigh* i still think you folks are reading way too much into this.it's a nice day, go outside and enjoy the fresh air."
"ever hear of steam *acheivements*?aparently not.i like this...but its not exactly \"earthshattering\"================ stop the evemail spam!"
"pray tell, from whence did achievements originate?"
"acheivements have been around a very long time.... its not something unique with consoles.and even then....if your so ashamed of them...well maybe you should get therapy.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"the word you should be looking for isn't \"ashamed\". also, i didn't ask where it was at present, but from whence it originated."
"quoted for emphasis.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"supported if it replaces current medal system. you buy yourself a medal and give it to yourself, it's pathetic. medals should be real."
"yes, and no.medals are good for ceo's who wish to recognize members who do good stuff or bad stuff or just stuff.certs never made sense to me achievemtns would be funny....but as a limited thing or for kicks.killmail excuse isn't good enuogh as thats badly abused and easily faked.as i said before....this is not a high priority earth shattering thing...but not a bad one either.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"we already have \"achievements\". check out the elite hull tanking certificate if you don't believe me.not having a formal achievements system means that you have to actually engage with other players in order to boast about the things you have done: write a blog post showing your \"systems i have visited\" screen shot, post a youtube video of your first titan fight, etc. heck, fly your zephyr around to show that you were actively playing the game during the christmas break in 2009, or your apopheosis to show you were here for the 5th birthday celebrations.the achievements systems in games like portal are simply time wasting diversions. you don't actually achieve anything more than \"hey guys! look how much time i wasted playing video games alone in my basement forever!\""
"hey guys can you all stop shooting this titan when it gets to 5% structure i need to get my \"killing blow on a titan\" achievement."
"its not so much lazy snipers as bringing back sniper, 240km snipers used to be the staple pretty much, and it was great to have that diversity perhaps scan time issue is long but it was only for combat probes, its mostly just finding a ballance between still being usefull to kill lazy npc'ers and reall really lazy snipers and completely removing a fleet type from the game..the speed bonus is not really as huge as it seems it used to be far larger when all hacs fit pollys, there was an unballance there but there is definatly an unbalance now"
"imo link ships shouldn't be able to boost off grid."
"this, supported 100%"
"yeah his idea for how the bounty collection works is essentially the same as mine. in fact it's the same mechanism i've been promoting for the last 3 years or so. my proposal adds a mechanic for allowing those bounties to be collected in hi-sec - transferrable killrights - that i think is worth having, as well as refinements like being able to limit who collects that bounty which i think are essential to prevent exploitation."
"fair enough.will you offer an amount of isk for people to come up with ways to exploit this in order to amend your proposal accordingly? ;)"
"why don't you just post the exploit along with the fix to make me look dumb? surely the pleasurable memory of doing that will warm your heart long after some petty sum of evanescent isk would have been frittered away."
":)'fraid i don't know any but i'm sure others will come up with one, especially comforted by the double warmth of being right and soft, tender isk to grace their companyone thing to get this back on track, though you seem to propose that bounties can only be gained by first accepting a contract would that contract be exclusive to a single taker? or could the contract remain up for as many people as willing to accept under the conditions given, until either the cash or the timeframe is used up?if it is the former, i imagine the bountied player might just block the contract by accepting it herself through some intermediateif it is the latter, this could be made easier by only displaying (and thus, paying out) the bounty to players that fall within the conditions determined by the bounty giveralso, i wonder if there isn't a way for the bountied player to rid himself of the bounty at favourable conditions in a quick bout of insured pvp, thus escaping prolonged consequence as a bounty target"
"*shrug* as long as value paid is less than value destroyed no matter what you try, you can never be sure who is actually accepting contract imo, i don't think there needs to be contract if someone has killrights and backs it with isk, anyone can shoot the target and collecttho, it might be interesting to limit who does collect it could add flavor or there could be both: public (market) and private (contract) bounties"
"this idea has merit(see i don't hate you)"
"the important part of the contract is to transfer the killright, not the money"
"i'm ok with people hating me (or at any rate i'm used to it by now), but i prefer the criticism of my proposals to be based on facts, coherently expressed, and structured in a way that lets me actually understand what you are mad about when people just copypasta rants from another thread entirely and shoot them at me as well, i don't feel as inclined to reply constructively"
"it's your perogative to reply however you like, i merely stated that you had no idea what you were talking about - which you yourself said was soall my comment required as reply was a or other short messageif you like we can continue here and **** this thread up too ?"
"it's certainly not my job to be doing this, but seriously, this is getting extremely tedious you're at it in every second thread on two different subforums!the two of you, just pack your egos back into your trousers, will you?! i've seen some very good ideas here and there, but these threads won't be going anywhere if you keep this up!"
"plugging the \"kill myself with an alt\" hole is fine and good, but tying killrights to bounties is really what makes bounties work in the general sense -- allows for placing bounties on players who keep thier sec status up-- allows killing the bountied player in highsec or on gates/stations-- no sec hit for attacking the bountied player-- prevents bounties from becoming a substitution for merc contracts"
"couldn't have put it better"
"dear community,i would like to bring up (yet again) subject of plex for remap. i know that issue been discussed in great deal of detail before. however i would like to introduce whole new set of arguments. i would like to briefly touch upon cons and pros and then proceed to discuss the issue in more detail. pros <U+FFFD> i would not go into too much details here, i think everyone understand the benefits of having plex for remap in game. 2 greatest pros here are that1) it would allow great deal of flexibility for players2) it would allow ccp to generate additional revenue, which in turn would allow to devote more resources to game developmentcons <U+FFFD> the cons are also pretty straightforward. plex for remap would <U+FFFD>dilute<U+FFFD> competitive advantage of older players or in other words those players who have so much skill points so that they can afford to train single skill section for a year then remap for another skill section with different attributes (i<U+FFFD>m one of those players btw). on a more broader picture it would dilute <U+FFFD>the spirit<U+FFFD> of game whereby the choices you are making matter and you have to make those choices very carefully.discussion <U+FFFD> now, let me try to put it all into perspective. being one of those players who can <U+FFFD>afford<U+FFFD> to train single skill section for a year i can clearly see why would similar players not want this kind novelty. clearly people who object are mainly those who feel it give them disadvantage. of all the players i<U+FFFD>ve spoken with who have moderate amount of skill points pretty much everyone welcomed the idea of plex for remap. those players argued that it would give them great deal of flexibility and allow to achieve their goals faster. i think what is important here is to consider is that overall this change would not only impact a small proportion of people but rather community as a whole and that includes ccp as well. i would argue that common good resulting from this change would outweigh costs incurred by a small proportion of elite players in a form of personal dissatisfaction by a wide margin. so effectively pros and cons outlined above are not quite correct. one cannot give them equal weight. on the pros side we have a very wide proportion of players with moderate amount of skill points, and ccp who could generate additional revenue. on the cons side we only have a relatively small proportion of elite players who are trying to lobby their interests. trying to put forward a fair argument i have to mention here as well, that players who defend <U+FFFD>old school<U+FFFD> eve model would also fall in this category irrespectively of their amount of skill points <U+FFFD> but these would still be a minority. finally, i want to point out at experience of introducing other changes to game mechanics in the past. the best examples here would be introduction of remaps and removal of learning skills. some people protested fiercely against those changes. i think some of them were protesting rationally protecting their <U+FFFD>skill set advantage<U+FFFD>, other were protesting protecting <U+FFFD>old school<U+FFFD> eve and others were protesting <U+FFFD>just because<U+FFFD>. the result was same though. we had potentially very beneficial game mechanics for the majority of people involved in the community, which was objected by a minority. conclusion: benefits of having plex for remap in game are far greater than costs, because of the amount of people who would benefit directly and indirectly from this feature is far greater than amount of people who would be put at disadvantage. please vote positively on the issue, so that we can bring it to ccp attention via csm."
"a well-written proposal, yours.still, no.remaps added flexibility by making a basic element of the game, your character, an arbitrary thing that could be molded and remolded to suit the player's whim.however, i firmly believe that it serves eve as a game to have choices with meaningful consequences. restricting players through such, as for examply through character generation, is good both for a competitive game and a virtual universe. if you wish to change your playstyle and need play along with the \"best\", whip out a new character or stick with your old one but be prepared to be patient.remapping once a year was bad enough. allowing to do so at will makes choices mean even less. some will remap for every skill they train in order to \"optimize\" their \"progress\". in that perspective, plex for remap is also basically another pay4win mechanic. i don't care so much for those."
"this has already been brought up...and soundly shot down in a hail of gun fire.the answer was...still is.... no.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"counter-proposal:go biomass yourself."
"no."
"it's not that bad, but it's not exactly unique, either - we^d just have another instance of pi, basically that way, mining would have some extra complexity, but it would still be boring and repetitivewhile most players would agree that mining is awfully boring, there will be some who insist they like it (botters, the lot of them i say ;) ) as an activity and will be vehemently opposed to any changes either you ignore them (\"adapt or die\") or you simply retain the conventional mechanic for their sake, at lower profitsa new mechanic should be straightforward to get into, with some variety and a simple set of rules, but really hard to master a mechanic where skill (preferably not twitch reflexes but brain stuff) determines profits and where taking risks is rewarded botters might remain, but unable to really compete with the dedicated miner for example, if you need to actively monitor various elements of mining processes to not just optimize your yield but avoid catastrophic consequences, further increasing your risk due to shifting your focus away from the danger of other ships approaching, you should see significantly increased profits if successful further,more, if you had to interpret some visual feedback from the mining process and smartly adjust mining targets, energy rates, investment of consumable tools in order to maximize profits, skill actually would make you a better miner over timei currently have no clear idea what such a mechanic would have to look like, but i'm sure that this would not just make things more complicated for complexity's sake"
"how is this overcomplicated?your brain still runnning at a year 2 level ?you bring up a scan of an asteroid, you plop your laser on the biggest bright red patch you minesounds really hard"
"hey ore for brains wake up and smell the quafeits a itty bitty rock you mine it completelyand move onnot parts of itnot placing an extractor and doing \"stuff' with it to make it availableits just raw materials you gatherand bring it on boardwhy should we complicate it any further than that?you want to stop botting? make all belts scannable like grav sites in whs even with \"weather\" disruptions and \"hazards\"stop messing with a system that is not brokenthis is just as bad as an \"afk prompt\"only worse================ stop the evemail spam!"
"how is this an afk prompt idea?in order to stop botting the system has to be made more complex than programmers can code to pre-emptthis means dynamic content has to be added where only a human can interpret (much like many forums have where you have to type in words interpreted from a picture in order to continue)i bet you get stuck at those forums without being able to registerhazards which will come up as what? a popup in the middle of the screen which the bottes already program for?dude you obviously know zero about what these guys are doing, why you even comment on **** u know nothing about ?already botters can move to bookmarks of scanned down beltsand most of these guys work as part of a team, they have a lot of real money invested in the entire process they are what make up the rmters you think they can't have a couple guys scanning down belts and then just let fly with all the bots as per usual ?you aren't a smart guy, stick to playing the game, not thinking"
"\"scanning up an asteroid\" and \"plopping your lasers on the biggest brightest red patch\" sounds like things bots will be very good at also, it still seems rather boring to me - how long would you be doing that with your attention glued to it, before going afk or to the forums?what's with the personal insults right and left, though? you sure you're furthering your cause or its discussion that way? i don't know, to make an activity that takes hours and is outsourced to bots actually interesting? possibly even a valid alternative - profit- and excitement-wise - to harvesting rogue drones?spot on about the scanning part, though oh - \"ore for brains\" i find almost acceptable, a tongue-in-cheek sort of taunt you're getting better ;)"
"why thank you :)but the point is still validthe activity is boring to some but not to the mining communitythe bots argument is something that will continue to plague usbut instead of making it more complicated and giving ccp a migraine for programming something that they could best use their talents somewhere elsemake the belts all grav sites that require probing pi belongs on planets not something 1/10000000th the size of a planetit's just a rocknothing fancyor specialit already gets chewed up and reprocessed into mineralsthat mechanic is already therewhy do something that already is in game?it's called refining / refining efficiency / ________ processingmake the belts grav sites - problem solvedno not the \"directional scanner trick\"just make it easy to hit a sig with a couple probes that require a little effortmineonce site is downnew one spawnsetcnot that different from whsanything else is just a little foolish and overkill================ stop the evemail spam!"
"for the umpteenth time, botters already work grav siteshow is this problem solved ?"
"do the bots actually scan down and find the sites? source?"
"scanning individual asteroids for better mineral concentrations, and thus better yield/cycle is theoretically bottable, but not necessarily with ease if you hand out an option to micromanage the focus of your lasers by repeated scanning and retargeting at the most tasty bits of any given asteroid, then that's something people would actually have to work at and at the same time, bots attempting to maximize it would be engaging in especially predictable (and thus, detectable) patterns at the same time, you'd want to move away from a belt-centric model to a signature/anomaly-centric one, with the better opportunities requiring more homework ideally, you'd have a system that looks something like thisfirstly, a prober scans down an appropriate hidden belt site the people interested in the op come in first with combat ships, to clear out the rats; then the mining ships come in a rorqual sets up shop just off the belt, activating it's forcefield to give the miners someplace to retreat to when enemies enter the system this isn't hisec, after all; enemies could arrive at any moment, and they need the protection offered by a forcefield to keep them safe additionally, the rorqual can use it's onboard scanning systems to locate the richest asteroids in the belt, analyze them, and then send hi-resolution images of the ore concentrations present to the fleet at large, allowing fleet members to focus their efforts on the best and rarest ores no need for haulers, here; the rorqual's also responsible for snagging the cans and compressing the ore on-site each individual mining ship could be scanning the asteroids on their own to get this sort of information, but the rorqual's optimized systems make it better so long as they're getting up-to-date data broadcast on the fleet channelsdon't have a rorqual? well, the orca's just about as good it can do everything the rorqual can, with the exceptions of compressing ore and generating a forcefield and in a large enough op, an extra guy running high-resolution scans of the belt might come in handy on the other hand, an orca can carry combat ships so even with a rorqual on hand, the fleet probably wants an orca around, too that way, the miners could flee to the safety of the rorqual's bubble, swap into combat ships, and engage their foes much like if they were defending a pos an op entirely without a rorqual is much less defensible but it is mobile, since it's not waiting on any kind of siege timer; the whole fleet can simply abandon the site and warp to a safe at a moment's notice long before hostile probers can locate them, if they're paying attentionthe mining ships themselves aren't doing anything too complicated they're just targeting the asteroids and blasting away with their lasers, same as before of course, if they want to be getting good yields of the nice ores, they're paying attention to the scans broadcast by their command ships using that info to target specific asteroids, and specific locations on those asteroids, for significantly better harvestsadditionally, careful attention to the scans will doubtless reveal lots of small, specialized deposits hidden among the larger veins that's no job for the hulks and their strip miners you'll want smaller, quicker systems for that a few people certainly have mining drones on-hand, though, and they're keeping busy by micromanaging the acquisition of whatever crystals the drones can nab notably, the guys running the mining drones can double as the security detail they aren't necessarily such after all, you could be doing both mining with lasers and drones at once, but then you're either paying a lot of attention and running several things at once or you're half-assing at least one of the jobs also, hulks and such don't have the drone bonuses needed to really do a good job at drone mining, anywaysfinally, there's almost certainly a skiff floating around he's playing an entirely different game from everyone else, since all the asteroids out there that can be mined normally also might have a totally different, and more tasty, sort of resource in their cores, inaccessible to all but their specialized equipment if the fleet was well-prepared (and has more then one skiff on hand), then they've got an entirely separate high-res scanner package on-hand to pinpoint and broadcast the locations of the otherwise-innocuous chunks of veldspar with tasty mercoxit centers if not, then the lone skiff is at it alone, prospecting in much the same way anyone else might, but for an entirely different layer of the asteroidof course, just because the rats were shot down at the beginning, doesn't mean they aren't coming back better pay attention, and have your security team / drone miners ready to switch up combat drones and handle it and, of course i did mention that sites this tasty don't spawn at all in hisec, so watch local just because you've got a shiny forcefield doesn't mean you're invincible, after all sure, you're basically a roaming mini-pos, with a couple battleships on hand for security, and a squad of battlecruisers stashed in corporate holds for safekeeping but that just means that you're a nice mid-sized gang, and you'd better be ready to defend yourselves or make a run for it if a bigger gang comes knocking!lets see bots do that"
"there was a dev blog 3 years about system wide belts and scanning them down and it was awesome, they should do that"
"this is so much better!one thing: not sure about restricting this to low- and null-sec why not put those belts and mechanics in high-sec, too, at significantly lower chances for good/high quality ores or great quantities?also, did i understand correctly that those skiffs would then be a (preferable) way to solo mine, quick and agile-like?"
"for reference i'm not implying that these mechanics wouldn't be in-place in hisec, but that the sites worth doing the kind of ops i wrote the example to demonstrate wouldn't be and, of course, you can't use your shiny rorquals in hisec at all there's nothing stopping you from bringing an orca out and running a lesser op, if you feel like mining in peace and safety, but there's markedly less profit thereand yes, for solo mining, i'd like to encourage use of the skiff; it's playing the deep core mining game, which (under my proposal) would be completely different from the game other miners are playing, but which taps out fairly quickly, in comparison in a group, hulks play the long game, grinding their way through the whole belt in a slow, methodical fashion if they stay for the long haul, they could mine the whole belt out and leave nothing at all behind, though devoting strip miner cycles to small deposits of drone-harvestable crystals or the still cores of otherwise-depleted asteroids is highly inefficient skiffs, on the other hand, can get at the tasty centres of asteroids far more quickly and effectively then hulks can, and they're fast and light, and warp-stabbed if you want to mine in lowsec, and you don't have a group on hand, you want to be in a skiff, because (assuming you can find asteroids with worthwhile cores) that's where the good isk isi would envision 'prospectors' sneaking around through lowsec in covops ships, with both your basic survey scanners and core analysers aboard they'd probe down hidden belts and comb over the individual asteroids, pre-screening them to decide if there's anything worth bringing their skiff in for the survey scanner giving a general indication of which asteroids look most promising, but with individual scans needed to be done to find out 'where and how much' most asteroid cores will be ****, containing much the same stuff hulks can get more quickly with their strip miners some will be tasty, having high-end minerals worth a nice chunk of change a very few will be totally awesome, containing vast 'mine this out and plex your account tonight' types of fortunes, though this won't be at all obvious until the individual asteroid is specifically deep-scanned it's this latter that people will spend all their time looking for; but they'll wind up settling for the middle option often enough if you've only got an hour or two to play, and don't have the people for an op, the casual money will be in skiffs, who will always outperform hulks in the short term, especially if they don't have to haul the tradeoff is that there's not enough quality cores in any one place to keep a skiff happy for long to continue to make that optimal better-then-hulk isk/hour, the skiff will always be bouncing between hidden belts and combing their way through systems, and either switching off constantly between prober, skiff, and hauler, or multiboxing while the hulk just needs to sit in one place and graze"
"to be honest, i'm more of a small corp miner if i can get away with itif i had my way i'd create a corp, have maybe 10-15 guys logging on whenever they wanted and mining in a decent system i like my daily pvp as well so i would probably solo roam or take whoever wanted to comegrav sites are too few and far between without taking sov and upgradingtaking sov means bowing down to higher powers which also means paying rent on an industry that's being completely choked out by the guys you are paying rent to more often than not - rmtersi've done it before, even in low-sec mining of hemorphite it can be really iffyi'll be happier with the drone regions change in the winter expansion i think hopefully that might even fix the issue of income, but i still think the entire thing will only give botters more income as well and thus still devalue mining, which in turn devalues isk and prices on things like plex will continue to rise after the initial changes have been made and the market restabilizesi'd love for eve to be a lot bigger, so smaller mining ops could run in distant systems reasonably unmolested, but traffic is rising in all of 00 and even low-sec and has been for yearsthis means only changes to mechanics can make the small to medium operation viable however, creating mechanics for miners means changes for other parts of eve as well like larger pvp alliances and those changes generally aren't wanted or neededit's a sticky issue at bestpersonally, i'd prefer to continue the war against botters, alliances that house and allow them and rmters generally changing the mining profession to more \"human only\" systems seems the best way to do thatif scanning anomalies and turning all belts into anomalies is the way to go, i'm all for it however, even some of the less sophisticated publically available software can be used to mine from bookmarks who knows what is running in the back rooms in some of the more influential rmt facilities ?"
"i don't think this is the way for mining to go at allkeep pi in pi-1"
"this is a terrible idea whats needed are changes to ore values, exhumers, and to some mechanics, the answer is not \"kill mining\" and the reason the drone regions supply 99% of high grade minerals is not because they pushed miners out based on pricing, its because mining in nullsec is complete and utter ******* bullshit its not worth it, mega and zyd could double in price and i still wouldnt mine it because i dont want to deal with multiple cloaky campers, the lol **** industrials faggots, and the long dull hours and hours it takes to get anything done unless you can make mining with one hulk net me as much as incursioning does (100+ mil per hour) then **** mining, not worth the hassle get rid of cloaky camping, allow hulks to survive more than 2 volleys from a stealth bomber, or get me a goddamn capital miner with capital strips, then you'll see mining again otherwise, be glad the drones are there keeping prices from going through the goddamn roof and shut the **** up about mining when you obviously dont know **** about it"
"source?i'd love to have a discussion on mining with a different op - maybe endovior will turn his idea into a proposal of its own?"
"well changing mechanics won't help, honestly, using the skiff won't change the state of mining whatsoeverkilling the botters is the issuethe real problem is that most people can't seem to grasp the economics well enough to understand thisseriously, changing mineral values and mining barges?!?how the **** does this stop the degredation of the value of isk - most of which happens due to rmters most of which use mining as their source of income ?please do tellfacts -high end minerals have not grown in the past 5 years (there aren't new belts being added to the game)high end mineral values have decreased around 30% in the past 5 years and yet the player base has grown exponentiallythe same amount of minerals for more demand but lower incomes for minersthe price of plex has increased by 25% in the past 6 monthsso the amount of in-game minerals has remained the samedemand must increase with player numbersbut with increased demand you should get increased income, instead something is effecting it in the opposite direction in a huge waythe obvious reason for these changes is rmters, not drone regions - which have been in the game for years"
"you need to edit your post once more dear:kill all mining bots and remove mining as option for the colour-blind!you will never be able to think up a way that hinders bots without also making it excruciating for humans instead you should think of of ways that make it less of an eye gouging exercise for people which is by far most frequently mentioned reason for resorting to mining botscombine it with mechanics that encourage mining with friends/gangs by adding extra profitability through minigame sort of deals and bots become a non-issue (provided ccp keeps refining their detection tools)"
"planning on it; my original post was a spur-of-the-moment idea i'll have something more fleshed-out and detailed later"
"thanks now could you please make a judgement if this thread really belongs to \"assembly hall\" and not rather somewhere else?"
"i've been unable to accept invitations of any kind for a while nowi've put in petitions about it yet i haven't received responses"
"disproving a negative? hmmmm not sure tbh"
"this is us hijacking this board didn't you get the memo?"
"minning drones remember does never used the either but the concept of a drone minning ship still really haunts me id love to see a true drone minning ship/support vessel something that'll mine less than the hulk but me more versatile and can protect other ships in a minning fleet two ideas come to mind 1) either make a new hull with stats etcs 2) a tech two version of the orca with focus on this drone bay from 75m^3 to 250m^3 bandwith to 125 fixed 200% bonus to drone rangereatin most of orca bonuses add 1 low slot 1 med slot 1 high slot industrial command ship bonus 10% to drone dmg and minning amount 5% to warfarelink industrial drone ship skill 2 additiona minning drones per lvl 5%-75% to shield resitance per lvlit'll tank like hulk and protect it 's fleet in null sec still be capable of mining but it'll definetly mine less than hulk being tech 2 cap it'll be in less circulation by adding the specific rule of 2 minning drones per lvl avoid it form becoming a sub/carrier or offensive ship but still"
"i had a longer post, but was ganked, so a briefer summarymining is boring, mining drones are a comparatively useless and boring bit of that bit of boring, and using mining drones is unwise unless you're mining in safe enough space that you don't need protection in which case, you're doing something too boring to be worth bothering aboutright now, mining drones are exclusively for that one incursion that calls for you to mine in-battle, and needed nowhere else at all ever that's not actually a bad thing"
"botters would love this, no longer having to recycle mining lazors, grand ideano"
"fill a nyx with t2 mining dronesthere's your drone miner"
"mining drones are garbage, any miner who puts a mining drone in his ship deserves to die and have his clone reset to alpha and then get podded combat drones are the only drones that should ever be in a mining ship, especially if you're in null or lowsec besides a t2 mining drones hold can only carry a single unit of anything larger than hemo so unless you gave drones a 100 m3 cargo hold, ******* useless miners, learn to fit a tank, train warrior 2s, and shut the **** up"
"nothing, but presumably if the chatlogs don't show you in recruitment, and nobody in recruitment saying \"go talk to lord zim,\" and nobody from recruitment pming you saying the name of the mark, and, andyeah, that seems like a worthwhile use of labor a new player with plex might be, though they are more likely to buy faction mods for their kestrel and then shoot at a billboard"
"i lost a redeemer to goonswarm a long time ago, but this was one of my tens of billions of assetsa new player does not have a lot of assets and will quit if they lose something so expensive, so that means less new accounts sticking to the game, meaning less money for ccpalso, i hate you guys dx"
"comparing eve online to a generic \"f2p\" game is an insult and shows just how little you know about this game when it comes to the uniqueness of this game.f2p is a sham and a total rip off.you read the fine-print and only find out its just a bloody p2p game flaovred to look like a \"its free\".there are catches...conditions...limitations.it's never free....you end up paying for something to even enjoy the game to its fullest or end up with its cheap rip off smaller cousin.f2p might as well be called a trial/demo at that rate....i find it digusting as far as the current trrends are concerned.f2p would kill thsi game in a heart beat...or make it a cheap rip off of the original thing.some of us are not made of money...and i refuse to be nickled and dimed to death for simple things.you want to see a ton of subscribers pack their bags? make eve online f2p.gaurenteed.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"around 20 million mmo players have grown up seeing nothing wrong with monthly subscriptions. they will not refuse to subscribe to another mmo in the future, so i don't see the danger of this market being too small for eve's growth plans.10 years or so, subscription-based models were all the rage, and we were told that pay once, play forever games were doomed and that we were to see playing games as a service forever more. it didn't happen. even now, a major mmo like gw2 is poised to go the conventional way. new models just open new (niche) markets, they will not replace everything else just because they are a current trend. mt seriously hurt the integrity of eve's virtual world. as such, they'll have to go."
"exactly...when the nex stuff came out...the aur snafu was a serious blow to the reputation of eve online.vanity items or not...the message they gave intitally (albeit uninteded) really rubbed people the wrong way.ccp contniues to this day to backpeddal that message while carefully weighing options.they already know that even theratening to play the mt game is a dangerous one...and ought to be avoided all-together.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"this. just, this."
"as previously stated, no, just no.i will never play any game that requires mt's as 9/10 they suck.do this to eve and i stop playing permanently.no way in hell i will support this proposal."
"no."
"as promised, screenshots of the icon you need to move the locked targets anywhere on screen.screenshot of locked icons that picture shows where the icon is after you have locked something. once you have locked something, left click and hold on the icon highlighted. you can now drag the locked icons to anywhere on your screen that suits you best.you can also right click that icon and set your locked items to vertical as well.screenshot of locked icons changepicture above just to show this in action.hope this helps."
"it seems we're getting new models for some of our beloved ships, which i find great: winter's expansion looks awesomebut as there was a topic asking about some ships to get new models, and it is lost deep within topics list, i'm making this topic for adding a ship to the list of \"ships that need to be re-modelled\": the bellicose and its t2 variants, the rapier and the huggin, and the vigil frigateplease don't start yelling about \"who needs the bellicose?\" since it's as useful as other ships and i know you love rapiers and huggins the thing is that their model (about the cruisers) is odd their bridges and solar pannels keep killing me, and i'm a minmatar who loves minmatar style my proposal is to change them slightly, perhaps this way:- bridge: instead of making it a rounded glass thing, i'd say to make it a bit similar to stabber's or at least rupture's ones (more pointy) for variety, it could be \"inverted\" from them, i mean longest part up isntead of down (inverted pyramid) and there's something with huggin's one those solar pannels are cool but they look like elephant ears; perhaps making them more \"aerodynamic\", pointing them forward or backward? note: if their bridges get changed, i think vigil's one should be modified in the same way- solar pannels: they don't seem as nice as other ships' so i'd say to put them, instead of at the tip of the engine's \"arm\", at its side (forward and backward as now) for keeping its looking, the backward ones could be longer than forward ones there could be smaller ones at the top of the ship too vigil ones' are coolthis would be small, quick modifications that i think would make these ships better looking, i think please let me know what you think of this :)thankie!"
"armor plates are used on ships that have heavy cap use. thus, it shouldn't hurt the weapon system it is normally paired with. thus my idea keeps the balance of armor plates making your ship thicker while keeping a steep penalty. the goal is simple find a drawback that doesn't hurt using blasters or lasers, that still keeps the feeling of 2nd guessing if you should fit one more plate.armor plates not adding massarmor plates don't need to add mass. yeah it doesn't make sense but who cares. they should however reduce agility extremely. if you can make it full speed in a straight line but go slower when turning, how cares, awesome. this would have the side benefit of booster blasters as the slower you orbit the better your tracking. remove the mass penalty . or reduce it by 90% and increase the agility draw back by a bit. armor plates make you more obviouslets face it, slapping armor plate on your hull is not very ninja like. this makes it much easier to figure out where you are. it also makes you easier to scan and to lock down. now i feel having armor plates increase sig radius leads to the same issue as mass increase. they can lock you faster than who cares if your faster. so instead armor plates stop your senors from being as effective. senor strength is decreased by 10% across the board no matter what size you equip. this adds an element of fitting ecm to counter the new super fast buffer blaster ships and long range run away laser ships. this doesn't stop blaster boats from being useful in normal situations, it jut adds a counter other than \"haha i have autcannons\"armor plates forevera new option to expel armor plates would be awesome. you get in lase and jammed, so what do you do? the hell with it! you blasts those ******* plates off the port bow! this allows you to change to a speed tank when close, or to get back your lock. this last part is more just for fun. anyways hopefully this gets a lot of support and ccp will hear about it!if not tell me why i'm a dumbass that shouldn't post ideas and i will take it into account so my future posts don't overlook any obvious balance issues."
"some of us do. and i don't see the benefit of reducing plausibility that way.agreed on sig radius, though, and i really like the expel armor bit."
"^that's the problem. it should. that's why it's called a \"drawback.\""
"armor plates adding mass is logical since...they're heavy.increased sig radius doesn't make sense since you're simply reinforcing the internal structure of the ship, not magically gluing more thingymabobs and doohickies to the external structure. from a practical standpoint, even if you were gluing on additional plates, the sig radius change would be so minimal that it wouldn't be worth coding in.and to turn off armor plates, there's a simple function called \"offline module\" already implemented in the game. though why you'd ever consider doing that is beyond me."
"the market tools need to be improved. i would love to see something like the eve metrics web site was. there is a clear need for good market information beyond what is offered now. i use the fact that there are or have been multiple web sites to cover the lower quality of information in-game. sites like eve central, eve market, eve metrics and so on have existed for years. this doesn't break immersion since it reflects real life. in rl there are tools like morningstar ans publications like wall street journal. market pvp is constant pvp. also, for future wis concideration, i would like to visit the big stock markets in the trade hubs. walk out onto the trading floors."
"*sigh* i really can't wait to see the fruits of the latest \"volunteer moderator recruitment\" drive - these kinds of backhanded personal attacks just because you're too lazy to come up with a proper argument just serves to cement the view devs have of this forum being the playground of clueless whiners. how the hell should anyone take anything else you write here seriously?"
"pot...meet kettle.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"fair enough... ...though in fact i technically didn't call you a clueless whiner! ;)"
"you know you wana. 8)================ stop the evemail spam!"
"does this make me want to play eve more?: no.does this majorly/minorly change mechanics?: no.does this make the game better?: no.why bother?: i don't know..."
"didn't someone just bring this topic up a few weeks ago?oh, yeah, here it is."
"basically this."
"hell no"
"1) uninstall eve2) cancel subscription3) never post again"
"+1, but have the remapping cost be based on the current amount of skill points:like 1 plex per 10 mil sp. makes ccp and the very few players who would still want to use it happy. eve is about options. everything should be possible but come at a possibly i"
"either way, i dont care which they do so long as they balance out the cost vs the bonuses issue."
"why do you post?"
"ccp don't set the price on t2 rigs. increasing their bonus would only increase their price."
"this. if t2 rigs were, say, twice as effective as t1, then everyone would want them. as is, they're only about 1/3 more effective, so hardly anyone wants them.that said, salvage alchemy would definitely be the way to go, here, if you wanted more t2 rigs around. just bear in mind that it will increase the price of t1 rigs."
"it looks like ccp will try to combat the high t2 rig prices by dropping more t2 loot. see this dev blog."
"prices are relative - based on demand. i, too, would like to see more t2 rigs used. so either enable us to produce t2 salvage or have more t2 salvage droppe, possibly also from more sources, yet at very low chances.why are some kind of rigs sooo cheap? they dont get used. why? the bonus you would get does not compensate for the slot you sacrifice, as some other rig gives you are preferable fitting. so please, boost bonuses of all seldom-used rigs and fix some fitting requirements - who would ever fit a sentry augmentor ii for 300 calibration???check the moderated 10000 papercuts evelopedia page!"
"this is so wrongplaces like iskbank do not exist merely because mining is \"an eyegouging experience\" they exist and bot because it's a printing press for isk and isk means real moneythese are the people to make war upon through game changes"
"my own alliance bitching about my spelling tips for this week dont undock"
"gm panzer its been since 10/31 since my petition has been submitted and still no fix this is just plain stupid every petition i have ever submitted has not been returned in my favor and none have been about ship losses you can always make more isk to get another ship rule #1 of eve, never fly anything you aren't prepared to lose do me a favor and take a look at my petition and see what you can do to help me out just once i would like a favorable reply from a gm your help in this matter would be greatly appreciated"
"well, i do know the feeling getting late responses and sometimes no fixes from bug reports i filed with ccp but petitions? bluegeneral, i am very curious what kind of petitions you opened anything that is not working as it is supposed to is basically a bug and should be reported as such so if it is not a bug, what categories of petitions are you referring to? why are you hesitant to discuss them here?check the moderated 10000 papercuts evelopedia page!"
"we have this great alliance called test that's blue to us, you should join it, you'd fit in"
"supposedly there is going to be some sort of evidence being used to decide whether or not the recruitment channel rule has been broken, but i expect there's either going to be people innocently banned, or the rule is going to just be ignored, since the evidence used is going to be circumstantial"
"ohh i love the sound of goons crying boohooooo"
"the word 'crying'. i don't think it means what you think it means."
"u sad bro?"
"i've brought this up a long while ago in a blog relating account security and i'm bringing it up again here.i'm currently looking around for a new character and i've allready spend some time in the character bazaar. however there is one thing that still holds me back from buying. and that is the fact that i have to give up my login name to the seller. to me my login is just as secret as my password and i think it's not smart to hand out one piece of the puzzle to someone that i don't know.my proposal that under account management an option is created for the buyer to generate a unique code, or as an alternative an unique code that is not your login can be found there. this code will then be passed on to the seller and instead of using the login he will use this unique code to send the character to the buyers account.i hope that ccp can implement this and that the csm can put this on their agenda.with all the fixes ccp is pushing out this is one could use some attention as well."
"hello.since tyrannis i've began to monitor the ram usage of eve clients on my pc. is it solely related to cache or is the 300mb to 690mb usage increase to this day a normal pileup of improvements (not obvserved) ingame?"
"mine use up to 1 gb at times, which is a tiny amount compared to real games like battlefield 3... ram is like $5 per gb those days, get more."
"eve is free, it's called plex."
"/signedi'm an old bellicose pilot from way back ;)"
"would it be an interesting game mechanic if the level of system control in incursions affected concord response times? i though up two possible mechanics: 0% control puts the system at a flat response time regardless of sec status, say something like 20 seconds. as system control goes back to 100% the system gradually goes back to the normal concord response time. 0% control doubles the response time. as system control goes back to 100% the system gradually goes back to the normal response time. i like the first method better because it is easy to chose a value that makes every system more dangerous than 0.5 without making the response time too long. for the latter idea, it is hard to chose the right multiplier that will make a 1.0 incursion system more dangerous than a 0.5 system without making the response time in a 0.5 incursion system too long. even the 2x multiplier makes the response time too long in my opinion (26 seconds)for the record, i am neither an incursion runner nor a suicide ganker, i just found this to be a rather interesting idea for a game mechanic. having flown through many a highsec system with an incursion without giving two *****, i wondered if something else could be done to make the incursion itself hazardous to the constellation as a whole.edit: actually i mean to put this in jita speaker's park to get more feedback. although the csm could take it if they wanted."
"this... would do precisely nothing but make it easier to gank incursion runners.(not sure if bad thing)"
"interesting idea. would force incursion farmers to chose between farming the incursion and safety against gankers.more interestingly it may do more to pit people who prefer prolonging the incursions for isk against those who prefer the safety of concord."
"how about you also factor in the security status of a victim into concord response time? maybe concord is less \"motivated\" to revenge the death of an almost criminal? maybe also faction navies would come to a victim's aid if his faction standing was high enough?give your own standings more meaning!check the moderated 10000 papercuts evelopedia page!"
"i have been escrowing/contracting and trading items between 12 (-cynos) character on 4 accounts for some years now. the recent change that allows damaged items to be contracted was a help in that regard, but it would be paradise on earth for multi account user to be able to share their hangar between all their character/accounts, without having to spend the time contracting the items or ships.of course keeping corphangar the way they are, as they are strategic assets in many locations, is important.but im certain it is possible to prohibit corporations from using a shared hangar but allowing multi-account user to spend less time on shuffling stuff around and more time on enjoying the game (and spend more money on more accounts)."
"i can forsee a lot of potential problems with this. i'm pretty sure you'd be quick to yell at ccp if your hangar somehow got shared with the wrong people."
"although it would be very helpful, maybe it is not wanted, maybe you are supposed to join the same corp to get that functionality? but of course that is not desired? *hehe*check the moderated 10000 papercuts evelopedia page!"
"you don't make sense, and we care.give me your stuff.biomass queue is over i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"lol how doesn't it make sense?the mass increase is makign them boost blasters.however blasters and armor tanking don't work togetehr.so istead of mass, it makes you easier to jam. the more plates the easier it is for ecm to work on you. i know it's not perfect, but i don't think my idea doesn't make sense or is without reason behind it."
"yes, they do. it just requires you to think a different way and fly for armor tanking blaster boats rather than for something else."
"that seems to be the opposite of the test forums opinion. you can't close range in an armor tanked blaster boat. you move far too slow. in the time you get to them your blaster dps isn't enough to catch up with all the damage you took, even flying in at an angle to keep your transversal up. if you fly in a straight line to close range faster, you'll take every single hit. either way the mass increase should at least be lowers by 30%. my op might not be the solution. it might even be a bad idea. but don't try to sit there and say that blaster boats don't have issues. also i should clearfly that blaster frigates are pretty much bomb. cruisers are questionable but with changes in winter are useful. but blaster fitted battleship don't need to lose 300m/s while mwd because they have a tank fit. i personaly am not for the huge dps increase most player seems to want. i think that's pushing it too far for the ships that can fit blasters and active tank without cap issues."
"original poster is right. maby something that can be set in the configuration menu (esc) then it displays the dtt in a color over the target icon ? or ring the icon green or red if its in-or out side optimal range.."
"what would be useful is a site that conveniently lists the current jita buy and sell order for a item. i tried some sites but they always give screwy data measured from all around the universe when i want 'the hub' with no goofy over priced scam orders or 0.1 isk buy orders influencing the real price. real current orders, real price.failing this i usually have a alt on the ready."
"what was nice about some of the tools people made was that you could look at current market activity in various regions. i did a lot of business outside of jita. i was able to look research market activity on items i was looking to manufacture just as real businesses do. the lack of such a functional system is part of why (other than pure convenience) places like jita have so much traffic. there are other good markets that are barely tapped simply because people can't find them. eve metrics, how i miss ya...."
"sure like the crumbling rock sounds when you mine gas but yes i like the strip miner sound back. now i feel like i am sitting in a huge t2 ibis"
"as a said before. only predetermined textures by ccp. so they are in the client and dont couse extra lag. just some more disk space. a vindicator get say 5 new textures that can't be used on a normal megathron or faction version. (fill in yourself for other ships)so with new textures the eve installment will be some megabytes bigger..."
"you dont even need a chart feature just another slide down option like the others buy, and sell.to make it work and loot selling better in general you need a quicksell option where you automatically sell it to the highest bidder in range (without checking the price and having you need to click another button, and prompt)with a firesale button, just permit multiple items to be sold at once, if by a glitch a order is gone then the item is not sold but the ones able too are (kind of like repackage all)."
"this discussion has been done to death.if you search the old forums. the community voted overwhelmingly to take it out of the game."
"i think a better idea would be a plex for one additional annual remap (no more than 1 per year). if a year passes and you havent used it, you loose the remap."
"well , there are various options how that could be done, we could have it restricted to certain number of remaps, cost proportionatelly increased etc. certainly every feature has to be balanced, if feature is not balanced then people would try to abuse it - that's normal. the notion is here is to get consensus, on acceptance of feature. the problem with that, is that people who mainly browse forums are veterans rather than younger players, who indeed would be interested in that feature. when you just start the game people have little incentive to go to forum, given overwhelming amount of information as it is. can i make a suggestion here ? i know this is going to be difficult, however i think we should try. if you are making a post, could you also post how many skill points you have on your main? of course people would not say the true value, but some will, when we get sufficiently big sample, we could infer on the pattern."
"this. choices should have consequences."
"since the benefit of the remaps is honestly negligible in terms of actual time i will go ahead and say it's ok by me. seriously...i have looked at all the possible reductions in time for everything i still need to train and in the span of a year it is a total of something along the lines of 5 days of time saved compared to what i have now which is pretty much even across the board in terms of stats. 5 days really doesn't mean all that much to me even at 55 mil sp. frankly the people this change would benefit the most would be the newbies and even then the benefit isn't so much that i think it would be any kind of problem at all. if anything it would just help more people get more sp faster to get into pvp and nullsec/wh combat faster. that i am all for. you want more people in nullsec for pvp stuff? give newbies a faster way into nullsec."
"i would like to see an opportunity to reallocate your entire skills once at some point. there are some many skills you train at the start because you dont know any different, thats just wasted"
"but it wouldn't help the newbies at all really, since they wouldn't have the isk for plexes anyways. the people it would really benefit are the people training up alts, mostly for botting or for sale."
"i'd have used this six months ago when i derped and wasted a remap with a mis-click.i don't see where this would grossly imbalance the game, and it might save some noobs from ragequit-level frustration when they figure out six months into the game what they should have done, and will have to wait six more month to do.don't mind if it's done, don't care if it's not."
"this. i'd spend a plex or three to buy back a few million sp that i wasted on industrial skills that i never use.not the entire skill point set, but maybe 1 plex per million."
"well im talking about the build costs, not the \"market\" prices. the build costs are related to the way their salvage raw materials are obtained....which i think should change. its so limited that its driving the prices up.but yes, imho t2 rigs overall are broken, they need to be looked at. price, vs performance, vs overall benefits, vs fitting. etc. faction items are used more than t2 rigs, even through their are expensive. why? because the bonuses warrant the expense."
"price of t1 rigs is driven by the price of salvage and the people who actually compute base build costs. these people have a minimum sell price. if the abundance of t1 salvage does not change, neither will the t1 rig prices."
"ah you look at doltan first ( yes drone lands was always but there wasnt so much ppl how it is now and waththey do there afcorsratign and kiling drons, mining al thos activitis ganerating great mineral amounts way you tink drf have bigest super cap fleet ;)"
"i am not sure that this would be of any real usethe miners that i know mine everything in a belt until there's nothing left they wouldn't even waste their time scanning as they will mine it all anyway"
"i am not sure abot the equally fair bit at all i once had an occasion where i asked very kindly for the gm to do something, and they said no, no matter how much i explained however another person asked and they had no problems doing it, infact they did it immediately only because i believe that person was quite a well known character so i dont believe its all fair at all i believe gms also prob have black spots on people tooand yes i have to agree with op 99% of the time gms do not rule in favour of the personwe all know the 'logs didnt show anything# scenario"
"i'm sure this will have come up before (had a quick look but did not see it, probably on the old forum). i also know ccp have said they would not do this, in the past. but with the upcoming expansion and the introduction of tier iii battlecruisers, i want to throw this out there again. if enough people want it, it may be considered.fleet command ships would stay as they are:amarr: damnation - prophecy hullminmater: claymore - cyclone hullgallente: eos - brutix hullcaldari: vulture - ferox hullfield command ships would move to tier ii models:amarr: absolution - harbinger hullminmater: sleipnir - hurricane hullgallente: astarte - myrmidon hullcaldari: nighthawk - drake hulli would love to see nighthawks as black with the red kaalakiota diagonals on it. or a gold and red harbi.of course the problem will be in the blueprints people are using to make them. but i am sure some sort of fair way of sorting that could be found. perhaps offering a one time only swap of the tier i blueprint to the equivalent tier ii?"
"i can agree with this idea, i would be more inclined to buying and flying a sleipnir as a hurricane hull, while the claymore remained in the cyclone hull.i fully endorse and agree with this suggestion."
"how do you propose the slot layouts be changed in order to accommodate the change in the hull?as well, how will the different characteristics of the hull (ie: the myrm is a drone boat versus the brutix which is a blaster boat) and the bonuses from the different hulls change in lieu of the new hull?*hint* think more *hint*"
"i don't recall saying anything about fittings, slot layout or stats. all the tier ii models have enough gun ports to support the existing ship compositions.the ferox is a gunship. the nighthawk is a missile boat. so your myrm/brutix analogy is already irrelevant. another example is the navy issue scorpion compared with the vanilla version. same model, different ship style. where is it written the t2 ships have to follow the style of the t1 ships?i'm not sure what your point is? this is purely an aesthetic change."
"when you clickon or target something and its off screen, its very difficult to see where it is, especially if you have some other windows up, and overview and other stuff.. can we implement some like bright red arrow or something like they do in fighter games thats always pointing to the target so you know where to look. just something that will highlight much much more better what we are targetting or looking at.please see the pics, this is only having a couple of windows up as well, overview, just generally selecting or targetting. this is more of a problem if you have multiple targets to track and perhaps more windows.pic 1pic 2pic 3do you really think thats ok? its a nightmare to be honest..changing to colour would be a start"
"/signed"
"really? the little objects all around the edge of the screen and the boxes around them to indicate you are clicked on them aren't enough? i suppose maybe allowing us to change up the color of a targeted object to red or something would be fine but i don't see how it isn't already obvious as it is."
"please see the pics, this is only having a couple of windows up as well, overview, just generally selecting or targetting. this is more of a problem if you have multiple targets to track and perhaps more windows.pic 1pic 2pic 3do you really think thats ok? its a nightmare to be honest.."
"no they aren't good enough. it's not a gamebreaking issue to be sure, but it's an issue that could use improvement. now do you have actual complaints about this request or did you just pop by to say we should settle for less for no particular reason."
"this ^^"
"what the hell are you talking about? i said the suggestion you made is a good one and we shouldn't settle for a lesser system. i don't see what your post has anything to do with what i said."
"dude i removed it...when i realised.."
"as i stated i see nothing wrong with just changing the color to make them more visible but judging by your pics i would say this is more of an issue with how you organize your screen. how do you suggest ccp fix this \"issue\" specifically? your third pic shows the window pulled away from the edge of the screen...try that for all your windows. or do what most people do in fleet fights...zoom out so you see the whole battlefield and not just your ship."
"not exactly a problem imho...and yes i've had complciated situations as far as overview is concerned...is there room for improvement as far as the metaphorical hud? yeah.papercut project....yes.issue to be taken cared of as top priority? no.not enough for me to push...but like i said....would be nice....but its more of a luxery than anything.ps: i've learned to keep an eye out for certain things in these situations....9 times out of 10 its your overview settings that are doing you in..not so much visual clutter.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"this is what i was wondering. yes, the game could do a better job at presenting information so that you can make better/faster judgements. i don't think anyone will argue that it's imperfect. the question is, how do we fix it?a few ideas:directional arrows on each target icon indicating which direction you need to turn the camera in order to see them.a large version of these arrows somewhere on the screen indicating the direction of whatever object you have selected on the overlay.those two ideas might enable you to visually locate the target more easily.i'd also like to see more control over how information is displayed. i'd love to be able to shove all my chat windows off to the right, outside the gameplay window...kind of like what happens when you press f10 for the maps. we have wide-screen monitors, let us use the real estate better. if i could push two panes of chats off to the right, complete with tabs, so that they never had to overlap anything, my screen would be a lot more legible."
"i would like to see insurance voided if you are killed by concord and a bit changed.what insurance company in their right mind would pay for you to engage in criminal activity. essentially, this is what insurance for suicides is doing, financing your criminal activities further buy refunding part or all of your ship cost.another change i would like to see is the full or nearly full insurance for t2 mining barges, haulers. the only drawback to this would be halfpay if you are killed in null sec space."
"how is any of this talk about gtc and subscription prices relevant to high sec?"
"temba ronin brought in the fact that there are people using plex to play, and argued that it was losing ccp money. vov"
"this is currently on sisi."
"i'm thinking something should be done to remedy the alarming rate at which the high-sec economy is taking a dive, mainly on the t2 end. and not to mention, the plex market has become ridiculous. not that it effects me, as i pay for my account on a year-to-year basis, but for some who are trying to pay for their gaming by plex, it's becoming difficult if not nigh-impossible.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"i agree, i brought this up a few months ago about some kind of regulation system to prevent market tank and huge market spikes. usually these happen because of 1 or 2 people with a lot of isk who can do whatever they want with the market, at the expense of everyone else. the eve market is not a simulation of the real market, its actually far from it. the spikes and troughs of the eve market are not demand or supply driven, but rather driven by ignorance and manipulation. nuff about that though.i have a few suggestions on how to fix this but for a different thread.the plex thing unfortunately affects a whole lot of people's ability to play the game."
"thats it? 690mb? damn...makes me wonder why i splurged on the 32gigs on my new machine. hmmm...maybe ill knock that down to 16gigs instead.or not..."
"in null security space, concord don't know about the hostile acts you commit that in low and high sec space, you would be punished for.so if they don't know about the hostile acts you commit, why do they know about the good ones you do? by this i mean the security increase for killing npc's???null security space should have zero affect on your security status. up or down. and before any of you think i am going for a stealth suicide ganker nerf, i am not. i love the fact that no place in the game (aside from being docked) is safe. what this will do is for players who can't go into high security space is leave them npc's in low security space.if you want to do the crime, time to do the time (in low sec that is)."
"im pretty sure the 4 major empires and concord know whats going in 0.0. just becasuse they dont have sov, doesnt mean they dont have a clue as to whats going on. maybe all ships are mandated by concord to be equipped with comm devices that register any and all rat kills?"
"they don't know/don't care is irrelevant really. rp reasons aside, what are your thoughts on the change?"
"anything that gives a bounty, also gives a bit of concord's approval, since concord's the one paying out the bounties. it'd be odd if concord paid bounties, but not sec status, for nullsec kills.interesting as it might be to keep criminals in lowsec for the duration of whatever time they spend in penance, there'd need to be a lot more compelling content there to justify forcing that on people."
"very very poor troll.try harder.-10/10================ stop the evemail spam!"
"its hardly a troll you idiot."
"only an idiot would make an proposal obviously outlandish and foolish beyond all reason when it comes to how things work.just because concord isn't in 0.0 doesn't mean they aren't watching and keeping track of things.do a little research and read up on things before you start spouting foolish things again.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"doesn't mesh with canon rp nor would it be a good idea to yank out the ability for concord to put bounties on nullsec rats. if you can't get standings increases from rat kills, there would be no logical reason for concord to also include bounties unless they're able to register the kills. to stay canon and to be logical, you'd also need to remove bounties from rats, and simply put: **** that."
"i wouldn't be opposed to removing bounties and sec status increase by shooting rats (as it makes absolutely no logical sense), but as i've said with literally all other changes of this kind of nature, it has to be tempered with an equal and opposite chance for the nullsec dweller to make money.until that happens: no."
"sounds like a stealth nerf to null and low sec.no bounties and there's virtually no reason to be in null.low would be even worse! if people can't fix their sec status then a lot of people that are casual pirates will no longer even consider fighting in low sec with such a massive penalty hanging over them. low sec will be even more deserted than it already is.no support from me on this one."
"depends on who you ask.a while back i suggested a modifier to the concord response time so that they took longer to respond in incursions (as part of other changes to incursions). i realize that would grossly imbalance things in favor of griefers and would need a solid countermechanic, perhaps a unique ability in incursions where you can defend your fleetmates (since fleeting is the whole point of incursions) if they are attacked by gankers.then you could have some serious battles between incursion fleets and the gankers who try to take them down before concord arrives."
"this would mean that concord would be slower to respond to defend noobs than they would mission farmers. also, those of us who found their pve niche in w-space have lower-than-normal sec status. instead of basing it on sec status, base is on the total negative sec status hits. concord remembers all your gcc events and holds them against you. it would be a long-term penalty for excessive ganking that you could never completely repair.edit: can you get standings with concord right now? if not, let's add that and have it drop each time you gank someone, and go up each time you kill someone flagged as a criminal. npcs would not affect this standing at all. this way only pvp activities would affect concord response times, and players would be rewarded for being the \"good guy\" by getting better protection. gankers could flaunt their -10 standing with concord while others work hard to kill them to run up their own standings."
"ideas for concord response time factors:- why not factor in the victim's sec status? - maybe also the aggressor's sec status? - why is system sec status (even in highsec) static first place? shouldnt it depend on how \"secure\" (how many combats / non-consensual pvp) there has been recently? - maybe you could also pay concord a weekly fee for faster response time? - maybe you could bribe concord to arrive a little later?ganking by definition means you cannot defend yourself against it. currently there is no counter to ganking/high alpha except fitting a high buffer yourself. even then i honestly feel ganking is too easily done - with too few isk invested (even if insurance payout was removed). look at how easily and often freighters are taken down, and ganking some pve bs is just scary easy to do. if a freighter having a break-even of about 1 bil at around 170k ehp, what are you \"allowed\" to fit on a pve-fit bs having around 60-140k ehp??? not to speak of a hulk at 30-40k ehp (and that is the buffer fit)... sure, you could say \"dont fit those mods\" and \"prices are just market driven\"... i favor those changes insteadcheck the moderated 10000 papercuts evelopedia page!"
"here here. i dont like the idea. i do not think that characters should ever have anything to do with each other except through third party mediums like corporations."
"shared for multiple characters on the same account? yes. this is a fairly standard feature on ,ost mmo's nowadays.shared for multiple accounts? no, too risky, imo becasue of people selling characters and such."
"something else that hasn't been pointed out yet. if you're a director, you can do that already by using corp hangers. just drop the item into the corp hanger and 'deliver' it to your alt. i've been using that trick for years."
"i agree with this, but i would also like to see them make it where those multiple accounts become 1 account with learning slots bought for the same price as a new account. so instead of the op's 4 accounts with 12 toons, he could have 1 account with 12 toons and 4 learning at once, for the same price.perhaps even a \"multiclient\" that enables you to run multiple characters, on the same account, limited to the learning slots purchased, at once in one client that can share windows and make tabs for the different characters (or different screens if you got dual screens). thus enabling you to cut the alt tabbing and extra processes run and run it all in one more efficiently built client for multiple characters.but thats just my 2 isk on the subject"
"this tbqh.even not as a director....just need the right permissions.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"blasters and blaster ships in general do leave a lot to be desired if you are flying solo (flying solo in a mmo? don't you have any friends??).if you are in a small gang or a fleet with fast tackle to get you a close warp in, blasters will melt the face off anything out there as they stand. after the patch, heaven help you if any blaster ship lands on you at 0m.i would like to see a buff to blasters and a little love for the gallente ships in general but not to the extent they become an iwineve button.having blasters do insane damage should and must come at a cost. lack of speed and agility is that cost.learn to use your ships to their advantage and you will be fine."
"also fix caldari sig radius"
"the ui is supposed to be scalable to some degree in the next expansion. problem solved before you brought it up? try going on sisi and messing with that, it should solve your problem."
"this has been addressed in the latest sisi builds. the geometry is different, but the size is roughly the same."
"oh no, you are wrong. even a raging homosexual would want bouncing boobs, since it would increase subscriptions. the anti-boobists are communists or fascists, or something ..."
"requiring the command boosting ship to be on greid is dumbing down the gameremoves the role of the scan down ship for the planet hugger ship or removes the advantage of getting to the fight early and putting up a posthe key is to adapt - possibly take out the command boosting ship before it makes it into systemtrick you enemey to fight on your terms have the terrain on your side-1 i will not support dumbing down the game to a bunch of ships sitting on 1 grid and just calling primary a little hide and seek"
"wait...what? requiring a ship in pvp to actually be in pvp is \"dumbing down the game\"? really now?to top it off your \"solution\" is to beat the other guys to the system and put up a pos first?holy ****...humanity is doomed."
"the only reason this persists is ccp wants people to buy alts. however, for every alt they sell with their command links there are a bunch of people who think this sucks that we have to dual box alts in order to be competitive in this game. now with t2 command links this will really suck for people who don't like to dual box alts. and for those who say you need to scan down the boosters give me a break. even if you were to redirect your attention from the pvp fight to try to start scanning the alt out, the alt boosters are aligned ready to warp out as soon as you show up on grid. increasing these bonuses without forcing the ships to at least be on grid is obviously a bad direction for the game.make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"the balance between the two is already there: t3 have much less tank than command ships. if the booster was required to be on-grid, the command ships would be better for multiple links, while t3s could use one or two links while still having tank/gank capability."
"fyp"
"friendly bump"
"why not just issue eve's version of social security numbers into the game? i can change my name in rl if i want to but my ssn stays the same. we can call them cin (sin) for concord identification number."
"yes good points. i think the main thing is to make it so we can know our militiary complexes are being invaded. if its by map that is ok with me - as long as the map is fixed so its not so buggy. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"i thought this thread could use a bump."
"i don't. sorry dad."
"not supported."
"we don't have such a policy we check each case and evaluate each claim such a system probably also weeds out a lot of genuine claims and we don't want to do that if we are able to verify that a bug/error was a cause of a loss, we want to reimburse almost all items lost in eve are lost in some sort of combat i can not go into details, but we keep track of when we catch players obviously and intentionally trying to abuse our services repeat offenders get official warnings and account bans however, it is safe to assume that most false reimbursement claims just get a polite noas irritating as it is when our logs don't show everything we want them tothey actually often do :) and as a result, we reimburse thousands upon thousands of ships and items every month (i'll see if i can dig up some data on that for you guys)"
"as nice as that might sound, what i concluded when i tried to get two of my chars' hurricanes reimbursed (two separate incidents and petitions) back when we lost connection, desynced, etc etc etc because the server code was a ludicrous piece of **** and hadn't been fixed by team bff, was that i might as well just not bother sending in petitions, because all i got was boilerplate responses insisting just got me more boilerplate it's not that i needed them replaced, but i figured i'd give it a try to see how it went, and i got more or less the response i expectedif that's different now, then i'll be pleasantly surprised, of course"
"the petition in question currently awaits your input"
"i'm voting solidly in the \"gms suck\" categorythis is based on:-poor communication skills-failure to answer simple questions-not dealing with a clear, repeatable, bug-displaying an utter lack of knowledge of game mechanics-not bothering to think or investigate-flat out lying-when finally cornered, closing the petition instead of admitting itexamples:-petition for reimbursement on a ship that got popped, even though the cyno showed as done the station refused to let me dock when i asked the question \"when did the cyno end\" so i could compare with the death mail- i got *no response* not even the default \"we don't bother to log that\"-i had a bug where i couldn't create a contract with a container it kept claiming item x (which changed) couldn't be found different containers, different stuff in them repeatable for over a week did the gms fix the problem? move my stuff because i couldn't? nope i kept the stuff there for a week so the bug could be investigated expecting a reasonable response (ie \"it's repeatable - grab it and kill the bug!\" ) didn't even get a \"thank you\" bug report came back \"unable to replicate on any test system\" really? what a big surprise what a waste-i had a senior gm tell me that warning windows only get displayed when an out-of-range order is *placed*, not on order modification do these guys play the game? or are they just given so much stuff they don't have to worry about such details like buying and selling stuff?-i had a senior gm tell me that they didn't have access to regional average data this is despite the fact that it had previously been demonstrated that they had access to the transaction data so a bit of work with a calculator and / or a pencil would give them the average he had it, if he'd bothered but then, if he'd bothered to think he'd have realized the average wasn't needed- an upper limit would suffice and that can easily be tested with a simple database query-i've had cases where it's taken until the 3rd of 4th cycle of the conversation to find any evidence of action on the part of the gm iow, nowhere in the first 3 or so messages from the gm did i find anything like \"i searched\", \"i queried\", \"i asked\", \"i investigated\", \"i checked\" so even if they did any of those things, their communication was so poor they didn't express the actioni'll admit that i've submitted a couple stupid petitions- usually when it was way too late and my brain was fried and then the response has been reasonable but past the stupid/noob issues the gms have been total failspend 8 minutes watching this ted video on apathy:"
"sounds more like a bug than something for a petition? but still you need to be able to reproduce an issue, otherwise \"the developer cannot fix it\" / the bug is basically not there / not important currently, any bug you file for eve will be filtered/trashed by the bug hunters / developers if not reproducible these are the current guidelines - at least that is what i am told after getting bugs of mine treated this way thats also one of the reasons i also posted in incarna 112 issues thread this and this on their philosophy how to treat bugs (you remember overview jumping for weeks?) no response!feedback to my suggestions of a \"quality first\" test system? has it been even read?i would also like to know if an issue is already tracked, therefore ccp needs to provide a detailed known bugs list - \"known issues\" not enoughcheck the moderated 10000 papercuts evelopedia page!"
"1) it was a reproducible bug. i reproduced it for over a week, on multiple containers.2) you're right it's not the gm's job to fix the *bug* (i opened a separate bug report), but they should have fixed the *effects*. the bug is impacting *gameplay* so the gm should have *fixed gameplay*. options would include: -relocate the stuff that couldn't be couriered. basically this is a \"stuck\" petition because the stuff can't move. -come up with some other solutionmeanwhile, they should have been calling the bug hunters on the phone and saying \"we have a reproducible bug, capture whatever data you need before we *fix gameplay* and it disappears.\" and the bug hunters should have been on it like flies on poo - instead of responding a month later."
"what we need it new rules for posting.people under 30 should be moderated by grownups."
"agreed with this, will make for more variety for sure and i'd love to see the t2 versions of the cane and harbinger :)"
"funny thing with your specific comparison is that the myrmidon has 6 prominent turret slots, and the prophecy is a laser boat while the damnation is a missile boat.not to mention that ccp is working on visible missile launchers.saul's suggested mapping is what i'd go with: why oh why wasn't the nighthawk based on a drake hull, since it gets similar bonuses to the drake?"
"to be fair, on that specific point, the command ships were introduced before the tier ii battlecruisers, so there was only one set of models to choose from at the time.i might photoshop up some screen shots of the tier iis into the relevant skins. for my own curiosity if nothing else."
"this is a pretty thin reason for this drastic of a change.if you think it thru a bit better, as to slot layout changes to support this and any needed cpu/pg changes you may get some movement. but not just for seeing a black nighthawk.side note: i really like the idea of each races command ships coming from the two different hulls."
"yes, for the love of god.i might actually be tempted to fly a command ship if it didn't look like ass."
"good idea. would love to see some new models in game"
"its like playing, wheres wally one major problems are the windows you need to have up. when you are pvping, especially in gangs, you usually have up the overview ofc,the actual fleet window, local, corp, fleet and alliance chat windows which do take up a bit of space. its quite obvious from the pics that targets are almost impossible to see where they are if they are hid under these windows. people say rearrange your windows, well that wont solve the issue, as your targets can be on the screen anywhere at anytime, you would be constantly moving your windows about.on alot of space games they have some sort of hud, that can be turned on and off. perhaps this is what we need. i am actually surprised in a game thats very much about pvp nothing like this has been even considered, crazy really. for me i think it is a major problem am quite surprised by people saying its not , we have just learned to live with it, because we had to. anyone who really pvps alot would consider this more than just a paper cut. i am also surprised why people are asking, how it should be done, havent you played any other flight/space game before?check out the following"
"whilst i am glad to see that in the next expansion ccp are adding what appears to be meaningful new content that doesn't involve buying my toon pretty shoes, please ccp, for the love of chribba, could you fix some of the age old bugs first.primarily among them, imho, is kill mails. they are an age old \"feature\" that is still plagued by bugs, given the age of this game the system for generating kill mails should be perfected by now.yet still, kill mail after kill mail messes up. i personally have lost t3's that had no subsytems fitted, killed freighters topped up to the brim with bpos and been solo'd by battle-cruisers because eve can't keep logs of something that happened two minutes ago if you jump through a gate.the so-called feature is a joke, accepted only because it's been flawed so long that people have stopped bothering to complain about it. it is perhaps the biggest annoyance for me in pvp, up there with people hot dropping supercaps on battlecruisers and neutral rr in high sec wars (actually the reason i left high sec).so, here's my list of things that need fixing with the km system, if anyone can think of anything else that'd be grand:session changes mess up kill mails. suicide prevents a km from being generated. kms are malformed when cluster load is \"high\". item ids for bpcs and bpos are identical. rr do not show on kms. (complicated one to fix, on this list this is perhaps the most understandable issue) 1) whilst this would probably be the most difficult to fix it has to (for me) be the highest priority issue. the majority (maybe?) of engagements occur on a gate, and the most common method of disengaging is to jump back through.2) using suicide to deprive the aggressors of a km? fine, that's cool. but a publicly viewable km showing that the victim did something silly would be nice. at the moment it's a lame mechanic that allows people in high ehp ships/fleet battles to hide their mistakes. i expect it to rise in popularity when the logoffski says goodbye, fixing it before then would be nice.3) \"high\" seems to be oddly defined, i've seen it occur on multiple occasions with 20~25k online and <10 in local. i'm not sure what the criteria is, but kms are an important aspect of the game for the pvp community. they shouldn't get such low priority that they come out malformed. or they should be stacked in a queue and generated as and when time allows. messed up killmails due to server load to me smacks of very bad programming.4) if you can't fix this you shouldn't be designing a computer game. if you can't fix this in a period that spans years... christ, where does our subscription money go again?5) pretty difficult to fix, and perfectly understandable. maybe adding a tag that shows they were present and repping one of the targets would be possible without increasing server load too much, maybe even showing who they were repping. but killmails should represent what actually occurred, i'd rather people who use an army of neutral rr boats aren't worshipped as pvp gods who fight against the odds."
"remove killmails. there, fixed."
"go complain about skunkworks some more ;)"
"1. meh2. either way, someone lost a ship. bring more dps if you want a juicy km.3. a single server (iirc) can handle up to ten systems if they're \"low volume\" systems. now, if you suddenly have a 10v10 fight in one system and a 50v50 in another on that server ... things get dicey.4. it's db stuff ... easier to use 1 id for 2 items rather than 2 ids for 2 nearly identical items -- a difference of only 2 columns. seriously, it doesn't matter (though i thought that was fixed with the new bpc colours)5. meh."
"1) meh for you, because you're a pve toon. why are you posting in a thread concerning killmails? a subject you likely don't care about? it's akin to me posting my opinions on mining.2) not realistic. two minute timer, fights don't last two minutes. again, something you'd know if you were a pvp toon.3) there's no noticeable lag, surrounding areas are empty (we know they are, we're roaming with scouts out.) killmails still mess up. priority needs raising, or the kms need to be queued. my point stands.4) again, it isn't fixed and it's a simple issue that completely screws up killmails.5) meh, because you're a pve toon."
"kill mails are completely irrelevant to pvp and eve as a whole. i say just remove them. but we know that won't happen. either way i am going to vote no on this since you came right out of the gate whining about ccp not fixing what you want them to which completely dismisses everything coming with the winter expansion despite you specifically mentioning what is coming in the winter expansion."
"meh, i'm fine with the winter expansion, especially the idea of new complexes and items. kudos to ccp for changing direction a little with the content they're adding.but there are a large number of issues with the game as it stands, many of which are completely ignored by ccp. killmails, for me, is one of the main ones and so it's the one i posted on. the problem as far as i'm concerned is that them messing up is a daily occurrence, not rare one off incidents that happen every few months. especially the part about sessions changes, almost every engagement without a blob that becomes an issue. we end up being forced to blob just to stop nano drakes getting back to gate.they are not irrelevant to pvp, and they're pretty important for alliances and corporations when recruiting. as for pve, if you had a jf pilot apply to your alliance who regularly loses ships, it would be nice to know, yes?"
"1) yes, killmail denial due to session changes needs to be fixed.2) no. self-destruct is a legitimate tactic. get over it.3) some yes, some no here. limiting the number of people on a km ensures some decent competition for getting on them. sometimes, malformed killmails are simply the result of something not going right on the interpreter for 3rd party killmail parsers (killboards). however, modules not showing correctly or pilots being dropped from kills they legitimately should be on should be looked into.4) yes. separating bpcs and bpos in killmails makes them more interesting.5) i'm ambivalent.however, there are many more factors in the game that i'd rather have ccp focusing on than making killmails better at this current point."
"1. eve is pvp. just because i choose different arenas than you doesn't mean i am not engaged in pvp. while i admittedly refrain from combat, can you say with certainty that i cannot hop into a ship and pew?2. if the fight doesn't take 2 minutes to complete ... then shouldn't the self destruct be irrelevant?3. i suppose... it all comes down to how ccp determines what systems are on a node ... 4. you really don't get how bad it is to do stuff like this in dbs .. do you?5. you were logistics ... and didn't apply anything to the target. why does this matter? or are you talking about the other guy's rr (if any)?"
"i like this bullet point format, makes arguing multiple points possible without creating a wall of text :p anyways, yeah:2) i agree, killer should be denied a km. but imho the loss should be visible, and the timer should be balanced around the length of an average fleet fight. as i said, i think this will become a bigger issue when titans/supercaps begin commiting suicide instead of using the 15 minute logoffski.3) i don't think it's a limit on the number of people, last time it happened to me i was cut off the km and there were only 6 people on there. same with the time my t3 exploded without subs or mods, very few enemy ships on the km. i even petitioned it alongside the guys that killed me, admitting that i had some very expensive stuff on there (t2 rigs etc.), ccp replied with copy pasta saying they can't generate kms.also, i've never seen an issue with interpretation by a 3rd party, except rare cases that battleclinic have quickly rectified. most of the time, you can see from reading the kill mail that it is incorrect.4) lol, i'm just tired of seeing lolwtf isk kills on bc. not to mention the completely inaccurate corp/personal/alliance stats that come about as a result.5) meh, same, i'm glad i moved to low sec. however i still think if they don't fix neutral rr they should at least let it show up on kms. high sec war is just a joke as it is.1) i can say that you have no interest in it, hence your \"meh\" concerning killmails. they don't concern you, asteroids don't concern me. going into a thread you don't care about and saying \"meh\" is simply pointless and not constructive.*meh, i take that back after reading on. you're being pretty constructive 2) fights don't take two minutes. they take six, or ten, or more. for example we want to kill an orca in a belt, his friends warp in to help. do we ignore his friends and focus dps on him to kill him in less than two minutes, or do we call primaries sensibly and win without losses? to win without losses might take ten minutes or more.3) hmm, good point, i assumed nodes were done by region and expanded or contracted as needed. but yeah, that probably wouldn't distribute load very evenly. still, during off peak hours kms really shouldn't be messing up, they are important to us pvp guys. unfortunately they do, and it grates.4) yes, creating a new item id for all the existing bpcs/bpos would probably be messy. but it could be done during a dt when a new patch comes out, and they could try it out on the test server to make sure it doesn't mess anything up first. that's why we have a test server.the main thing is, these items are obviously going to be of different value. why were they ever given identical ids in the first place? i'm guessing there is a single item type, and a boolean value or something to decide if it's a bpc/bpo? why not just have two items? anyway, if it's just some value dictating what the item is, hopefully a script could quite easily create a new item to replace all the bpos.then again you are correct, i don't really know exactly how difficult it would be, but it would be nice if ccp would explain to us why they can't do these things, and try and sound convincing :p as it is it's just a major flaw they seem to have ignored for a very long time. 5) two guys fight, say, rupture vs. tengu. the rupture wins because he has four guardians helping, the km shows that in a 1v1 a rupture killed a tengu. rupture pilot looks like a god, and because he does this consistently his kill board makes him look like a ridiculously good pilot.**scratch that about creating walls of text. i always manage it. always."
"hahahahahahahahahahaha *gasp*ccp has already gone on record that killmails are working as intended, so the carebear fantasy of killmails going away won't happen. they consider them important and are adding implants to killmails, so obviously the trend is toward *improving* them.1, 3 and 4 i'm not familiar with.2: i had a thread in here a while back about self destructs creating killmails. losing a ship to concord gives a killmail to the player that did the most damage (assuming a player did any damage), i don't see why suicides should be any different.5) i've wondered if there would be a way to put remote support on a killmail. of course, that would open the door for some serious km whoring where everyone with an sort of remote support throws reps, sebo, whatever on a fight to get in on the mail. definitely needs a lot of thought to make it work well. maybe only rr coming from fleetmates?(edit: completely random thought, it would be hilarious to take a fleet of logis to jita and rr both parties of any fight that starts so that they can't kill each other)i've been pushing for a change to rr so that if you rep a target that has an aggression timer that would prevent them from jumping or docking, you would inherit that timer and be unable to dock or jump as well. if that were put into place, it should be easy enough to have the logis get on the killmail. that's assuming ccp's system of generating killmails works the way i think it does."
"aye, i've read that suggestion on here before and, i think, on the old forums. it seems like the best solution to the issues with rr.i think the whole rr system needs a slight rework, rr from fleetmates only would probably prevent km whoring. and also maybe put a dampener on the guys that randomly rep people outside jita, before promptly undocking a vindicator if they get attacked.in all honesty though, getting rr onto kms would be difficult at best. rr should just never have become this much of a problem in the first place. again, it's another issue that should have been addressed by now, it would have been nice if ccp at least came forward and gave a good reason as to why adopting an aggression timer is infeasible."
"it's certainly feasible. the current system where logi inherit yellow timers is relatively new. i think they need to take the final step and transfer all forms of aggression.one concern that has been raised is the ability to pass the aggression timer down a logi chain in such a way that two logis repping each other would permanently hold that timer and never be able to dock, even though neither of them has committed a hostile act. that could certainly be prevented from happening, it's just up to the devs to work out the best way to do so."
"yup,also emails are broken cos other people can see my email address when i send stuff.my router ip is shown when i browse the net.and my linux admin is called 'root'thats why you need enough complexity in passwords..."
"if you're using an industy-standard password, giving out your login name shouldn't be an issue at all.now, if your password is \"12345678\", you may have a reason to be worried."
"dammit, now i need to change it. thanks a lot ****."
"hey ... that's the same combination as my luggage..."
"the schwartz is weak in this one.....but agreed.... security for account buying/selling should be buffed.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i can get behind this. i see no reason to compromise security if it can be avoided."
"well, looks like this thread has gotten completely off topic and is probably unrecoverable.so, with that in mind, vile rat, has this given you any pearls to work with or what?"
"one annoying thing as others have mentioned is that pos in high sec can take a lot of work just to get the standings to put it up.. then for whatever reason if you have to move your corp to another place, you get to start all over again.i don't know much about how pos work in terms of servicing one but do you think it's possible that perhaps some skills or a career could be made out of pos work somehow.. almost like a pos mechanic or something.. a career that perhaps if you went along that path would make it also easier to install a pos for your corp etc. maybe a career at going around setting up poses for people and maintaining them via contract of some sort"
"csm member vile rat you are offering to review ideas from players of eve that might lead to what you called your vision <U+FFFD>my vision: i want to see a legitimate career path for those who want to live in empire and enjoy eve-online. i want to see empire activities iterated upon properly and i want there to be a plentiful array of entertainment options available for those who want to make their empire in empire, and not lowsec/nullsec.<U+FFFD>.i have given that some thought and would like to put forth the idea that players with significantly high standings with a particular empire be allowed to place a full blown pos that rivals the npc stations in any system in empire space that does not currently have a npc station, a high sec corporate outpost. in the hyper-capitalistic market that is new eden it seems that players and the micro-transactional economy they represent, must now directly compete with the npc stations to take the next logical step.yes it should be expensive, no it should not be so much so that it is unprofitable. the corporation/ alliance setting up the high sec outpost should be allowed to implement the system upgrade mechanics of sov to make their system a more attractive place to tenants. additionally the access to the outpost itself should be controlled by the corp/ alliance that placed it there, but the access to the system would remain unrestricted. concord would of course have a very limited specific role in a player controlled high sec system that would be limited to the jump gates to curtail contraband and enemies to their empire and to strictly enforce no gate camping. the system internally would or could be extremely dangerous but transit thru it should remain safe. the controlling corp/ alliance would be responsible to react to control and define criminal activity in their system. these empire corp controlled systems would of course be a prime target for the sansha and they should make frequent attempts to capture the population. pi and moon mining are very similar, a high sec improvement would be to allow more then 1 entity to mine a moon as is currently possible in pi. additionally moon mining needs to be implemented in sec systems greater then 0.3. to preserve and improve the reward for all those willing to risk low sec moon mining the occurrence of high value ore must be significantly increased and limited to low sec and null space. in the dust514 implementation it would improve profitability if ground forces could capture pi and moon mining facilities intact and/ or have the ability to repair damaged facilities. some of my thoughts on enabling the creation of corporate empires in high sec empire space."
"30-40 billion ought to do it, right? and \"no\" to this being allowed anywhere near hisec. lowsec *might* be workable, but it's touchy there too..."
"rp - there are people in the star gates, who control access to it. they are also what is going on in the system, and they can register rat kills and pass out bounties and sec status."
"no more bounties in null and you get tags instead. turn in tags in low/high sec. there. now your rp is fixed. now kindly **** off.if bounties on rats is the only reason you can see to be in null, you need to get out more."
"this proposal is about as \"waaaaaaah\" as it gets. the (fairly obvious) ulterior motive is to eliminate suicide ganking in highsec, which ccp has stated multiple times to be working as intended. your solution of \"rats in null drop tags\" is laughable at best, because the main reason rats are killed is specifically for the bounties, followed by the security status increases.also, removing bounties on rats would give players zero reason to be in null, as there would be nothing of value to the individual player. all of the larger benefits of null space (moongoo) require a reasonably large entity to maintain and a fair amount of isk to keep running. the value of these to the individual (unless you're skimming profits as the ceo of a corp or something) are fairly limited.in short, without replacing ratting with some other activity that pays the individual, removing bounties and security status increases would turn null sec into a wasteland, and ccp would lose a considerable segment of their playerbase. maybe you should consider the consequences of your proposals better before mindlessly posting them and then calling players who are capable of looking at the consequences trolls.as others have said, i'd be fine with replacing ratting with something else, but since you have failed to provide that something else, your proposal is mostly dumb.o7o7o7o7o7o7o7o7o7o7o7~m8m8m8m8~"
"so, turn in tags and get reward and security boost?"
"please show the judge where on the mackinaw the bad boys touched you, miss."
"that makes more sense to me. would put a purpose back into tags."
"but that wouldn't help the posters of fhc, so i guess that's out then."
"just the reward, not both.i do realize that the income of high sec needs a nerf. why kill npc's in null sec for a slightly better profit when you can do it in high sec in complete (aside from things like suicide ganks) safety? balancing the income levels is not what this proposal is about.and for the record, i am a supporter of suicide ganks, hulkageddon and other activities like that. i even donated over a billion in prizes for last years hulkageddon and will be doing the same this time. the purpose of this proposal is for there to be a different area for players to get their security status back up to go into high sec. more specific area. low sec, where there is real danger doing it. not ten regions deep into your power blocks territory where you have a dozen intel channels warning you of a lone guy running around so you have time to go make a sandwich and contemplate which safety zone you want to hide in, the pos tower, cloak or dock. most parts of null are just as safe as high sec.it is amusing to see some of you shout that this is a nerf to null sec, or to pirating or suicide ganking. you can still do all of that. you just have to rat in low sec instead of null."
"with respect you think im gonna drag all those tags from say stain all the way to empire? err no sorry....i jump clone so i dont have to fly up and down!"
"so in other words, there's even less point in shooting red crosses, then, which means i'm definitely not going to do it. oh well, i'll just keep doing what i'm doing now instead, spend a few minutes a day on my jita alt, fiddling with various buy/sell orders and get +1b dings in my wallet.hell, even my jita alt has a negative security rating because shooting red crosses is so much fun that i definitely need less incentive to do so.that's why you get someone do it for you?"
"there is no risk in low or null for sec status. i was in a cloaky pilgrim and only killed rats in empty low sec systems and safed/cloaked if someone came in. done the same in null with a proteus cloaky + nullifier while in npc corp with no blues. all the change will do is make the grind longer for those who do it in null now."
"just so you gais know:- in drone 0.0 you get very little sec since drones don't give you much sec, i don't see drf guys crying out loud here nor me or my buddies who hang around there somewhat much. so in general there's no need to give sec boosts in 0.0. i don't really care to any extent but there's no real need for sec boosts in 0.0.- best sec boosting is in hi sec. certain pve sites and incursions give loads of sec boosts so it doesn't really matter to anyone if you don't get sec boost in 0.0. again. i think it would be more important to remove sec boosts in hi sec instead. but maybe that's only me who thinks it's ******** you get sec boosts in hi sec.just saying. i don't suicide gank retardedly fit overpriced tengu every day so i don't know much."
"^this. remove sov null rat bounties."
"why?"
"remove bounties on rats, switch to tags. no more concord tie-in, new avenue for income generation by middle-men security standings gains in low sec means that content will be there, since players are the content in this pvp sandbox game. of course once you're higher than -5.0 standings, you can gain standings faster by running missions in hisec. so it's not like you're going to be forced to live in low sec forever."
"finally someone who gets it."
"cosmetic restrictions? you find the prices of items in the nex too high? which pvp persistent worlds have gone f2p?lotro is a great example of a pve persistent world which has succeeded by going f2p: it doesn't matter that some guy can buy gear twice as good as yours, because he's not trying to kill you with it. progressive download is already on ccp's great whiteboard in the sky, but only to enhance the new player experience (i.e.: start the game the moment you launch the installer). being required to purchase extra regions is a foolish idea. how are people supposed to introduce rookies to the world of eve online when the rookie has to keep bringing out the credit card just to get to the other side of a stargate?i'm amused that you then try to prop up your argument by pointing out one f2p game that failed dismally (lego universe) while holding a pve f2p as an example of what eve could become. does not compute!i'd also like to remind people that what ccp offers through the nex is a \"virtual goods store\" from which the obscenely rich can buy \"bling\" to show off to their friends. the nex is not a micro transaction store. the whole point of conspicuous spending on luxury goods in real life as well as in game is to show off to other people: you have items which everyone knows are ludicrously expensive because you have more money than they do. such items in real life would be gucchi handbags, versace polo shirts, $10k designer jeans*, etc.although i'll get tarred and feathered by many of the other posters here, i'd like to see the nex providing non-vanity items such as special issue ships. examples could be a nex equivalent of the cnr: you pay aurum instead of lp & badges, along with a raven. with a sufficiently high aurum value, nex ships would be ideal for the purpose of trolling. imagine your killboard efficiency when you blow up a single 30b isk battleship hull (never mind the gold-plated modules that were fitted to it)? the nex could even release \"limited issue\" industrial/utility ships of similar meta-level to the utu or freki through auction, further increasing item value: this would be the \"alliance tournament\" of the commercial side of eve.i believe there is a fair trade-off at some point between real-world effort (as represented in game by aurum) and in game effort (as represented by lp, badges and isk). so go ahead and spend your <U+FFFD>500 on a ship with which to bait gankers. eventually you'll lose it, all the while providing awesome content in the form of a loot pi<U+FFFD>ata.* and you guys were having a tanty about ccp zulu's reference to $1000 designer jeans! lol"
"not empty quoting.just because the majority of the market uses the f2p model does not mean that everyone in the market should. if everyone jumped off a cliff would you blindly follow them?to me and to everyone i've talked to in game proposals such as yours are abominable, wrecking this game so you can have special toys or buy skills you haven't the patience to train and experience to use does not make sense."
"sorry, but you don't seem to be getting this:to a lot of players, the fact that other people are able to change the conditions of the world and their gameplay by rl means seriously damages the game world for them.for me, i'd turn to single player games where no one else gets to wreck my illusion."
"f2p games are all about putting the smallest possible effort into gameplay, coating that gameplay in a thick layer of fecal matter then charging people money to wash the **** off. in a f2p game you don't make decisions based on \"is this balanced\" or \"is this fun\" but more on \"how can we make this as awful as possible so people will pay us not to do it\". sure you can play for free and delude yourself you can stick it to the man and dig the gameplay out yourself but at the end of the day your hands are still covered in poop."
"20 million players who didn't have much choice but to pay a subscription fee. and do you really think ccp wants to keep their target audience down to 20 million players? i doubt it. most people don't have the money to spend on a monthly sub. there are a lot more than 20 million people out there that would gladly give eve a try and potentially spend money in the mt store if given the opportunity to. it is true that f2p is a method of a free trial that is designed to hook the player. that's the point. as it gets harder and harder to get people to pay subscription fees another method has to be found. just because you think 20 million people were ok with paying subscription fees for a game doesn't mean they are now or ever even wanted to.frankly the current free trial that ccp has for eve is a joke for this game. what the hell can you accomplish in 14 or 21 days? 3 months maybe. personally i think ccp should make eve f2p and restrict what skills can be trained and what modules and items can be used without paying the monthly sub or plex or whatever. with enough restrictions the potential player could experience everything eve has to offer to a very limited degree for as long as he likes or needs. by severe restrictions i mean nothing allowed to be trained above level 2 for mining, weapons, defense, etc....even games like lotro and eq2 (just to name a couple off the top of my head) do this. play for free with restrictions. pay your monthly sub and get the full blown game and everything it has to offer. why would this be bad for eve? more targets to shoot everywhere you go...only weaker targets. more potential revenue for ccp. this leads to more devs and more in expansions and faster and better development of current and new content."
"weaker targets are boring and no challenge, plus wouldn't anyone in the f2p mode you suggest be more likely to leave rather than sign up after being bashed about a bit by the existing player?"
"does every miner in eve quit after being bashed up by other players? the kind of people that would quit after that are the kind of people that wouldn't like eve to begin with. the kind of people that would survive are the ones that subscribe, train and come back for revenge."
"you missed (or worse, misrepresented) my point. the only point i was making was that lotro is a bad example to use of games that have successfully morphed from subscription to f2p models, since it is a pve game with optional pvp. eve online is pvp all the time, with all players sharing the one virtual world, so imbalances introduced through gear-for-cash will have much greater impact on that virtual world. your point is valid, but that doesn't mean my point is invalid: \"lotro is pve while eve online is pvp\" is entirely unrelated to, \"i don't like people being able to alter the in game world using out-of-game means\".i will extend that point though, and suggest that due to eve online having the harshest \"death penalty\" short of \"hardcore\" mode in diablo, imbalances introduced through gear-for-cash schemes will not be so severe, since that gear will eventually (inevitably) be destroyed. the more that gear is worth, the more likely it is that such loot/kill-mail pi<U+FFFD>atas will be deliberately hunted for no other reason than that they are valuable targets.here are the eula-abiding ways we currently alter the in-game world through out-of-game means: forum/irc/teamspeak spies alts on same account (e.g.: market alts, contract alts, pirate vs isk-farming alts) alts on multiple accounts (cyno alts, covert surveillance alts) bribery (i'll organise a date with my sister if you forget to pay sov) psychology politics plex for isk turn off titan-flying player's mains power during major fleet fight (okay, it was only discussed, not actually done, but still <U+FFFD>) if people are truly concerned about out-of-game activities influencing in-game activities, there is no persistent world mmo suitable for them, and many of the session-based mmos are not suitable either. there is, of course, skyrim."
"helps a tonne. i never knew you could do that and was always trying to 'right cilck' or somethign to move them.many thanx!!!"
"nice looking ships are, well, nice+1"
"go to lowsec if you want to gank people.introducing a new mechanic for the sole purpose of breaking an existing mechanic that's working as intended is pointless."
"similar to the way overviews work, my proposal is to allow game option, shortcut and window positions to be exported and imported on different accounts to allow separate them to be synchronized easier."
"please yes. +1"
"this gets a - from me, theres no reasno to break this legitmate mechanic. it would make command ships in capital fights completly usless. becuase you would be for all intense and purposes owned as soon as you came on grid to give your captial ships boosts"
"it's a no thank you, from me.if someone has a pos up, they took the time to do exactly that. why shouldn't they then reap the benefits of this later in fights.also they fixed tech 3, just because you can't be arsed to probe them down is your problem and not the problem of the tech 3 ships, or gang links. they fitted to be harder to probe, you need to fit to find them. sounds like balance to me.it's not as if this isn't open for all. why do you lot always insist this game be dumbed down and made so much easier?destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"this all comes down to one simple fact. if any ship is giving bonuses to other ships in a fight then that ship should be required to be in the fight. no ship participating in pvp combat should be completely immune from being killed. this means no warping around the system or hiding in a pos. you cant target another ship and fire from within a pos. why should you be able to give bonuses from within one? same goes for warping or even sitting still in another part of the system. command links can effectively do more damage than the ship itself could by firing its own guns. depends on how many other ships they are giving bonuses to. so if you want to let command ships to continue to give bonuses without participating in the fight directly then i expect to be able to target and kill any ship within a pos and i expect to be able to do the same from within a pos."
"it seems we never agree. you think it would dumb the game down to require booster ships on the battle grid? i think that is a very hard case to make.lets say you have an idiot cousin. you decide to put him in a command ship or booster t3. which do you think would be easier for this dumb relative:1) to have to fly the ship on the grid where the battle is taking placeor2) to have him sit at a pos or in a safe spot aligned out to warp if anyone shows up on a 200k dscan?please answer that.currenlty flying these booster ships where you don't even have to be on grid is so boring and easy no one would actually think of doing that with anything other than an alt you are multiboxing. there is a difference between dumbing the game down and making it more tedious. forcing people to multibox alts simply makes the game tedious and destroys any small semblance of immersion the game has. sure some people are so concerned about looking like a hero on the killboards that they will suffer through this immersion breaking tedium, but that is not good for the game. (these boosting ships don't show up on the killmail - which they should) those who don't want eve to be a chore will quickly find that it is no longer for them.make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"if pos were complicated, demanding, expensive and required player skill to set up then yes, most definitely, the owners deserve the <2 days worth of absolute immunity for their links .... not the case though .. and now pos are getting dumbed down to boot.you done a lot of combat probing after the change? sure, it is theoretically doable provided you have maxed skills and/or implants + sisters gear .. if the t3 has deep'ish safe spots you are screwed though as it will take ages to get anywhere near it.if range was limited to <1-2au or so then \"they can be probed!!!!1111\" would be a very valid argument, but that is also not the case/just brain farted some alternate ways of 'handling' it:- cheap, readily available and easily fitted/run module that blocks all communications from off-grid. hard counter to off-grid links.- link interference #1. disables the use of directional scanner while links are active, cycle time increased to two minutes to prevent rapid cycling/scanning.- link interference #2. active links disrupt shield harmonics causing pos bubbles to \"harden\" making them impassable by everyone but the link ship, any ship inside will be bounced as if the pw was changed (should open door for some quality laughs/griefing)."
"poses already influence fights through cyno jammers, jump bridges, weapon & ewar batteries. if you want to benefit from a pos during a fight, bring the fight to the pos.off-grid boosters allow an afk player to influence combat. in what bizarro world does this make sense? in the meantime i am of course training my alt to fly a 6-link tengu to boost incursion fleets. am i a hypocrite? certainly. am i going to exploit any valid game mechanics to my advantage? of course!at some later point in time that alt will be flying a tengu or loki on-grid, providing boosts and combat capability. of course i'd really love to be able to provide siege/skirmish warfare links on-grid with a shield tanking drone boat, but we can't always get what we want :)ps: if ccp is watching, i'd love a rattlesnake or dominix which can mount warfare links, or a sleipnir with 5 medium drones. perhaps a \"siege/skirmish/armor/information warfare processor retrofit\" rig which provides the warfare link bonus that battlecruisers enjoy, allowing battleships to be retrofitted with a gang link?"
"i have only three words for this proposition. no ******* way!i can see where you are coming from and this is the same attitude almost everyone has towards supercaps and co. which is understandable but it pisses me off most of the time. if i can't do it then no one else should. i for one run exploration sites and i use an offgrid boosting alt. this proposition requires me to fly 2 accs at the same time just to get bonuses so whoever wants to gank me can get the advantage. no ******* way!"
"i'd like to see a sp remap for plex. i can live with that but it's obviously gonna drive plex prices into the roof."
"now with picture goodness to show exactly how to use this abuse to achieve complete invulnerability for your highsec towers."
"signed. ccp absolutely has to ******* stop changing the rules because they can't be bothered to fix ****i have no problem with this. they pay an 11% tax for that immunity. wanting to \"have their cake and eat it to\" or \"i am a highsec bear, i am entitled!!\" needs to end."
"u mad bro?working as intended. go to lowsec."
"start charging 10 to 50 mil a shot and youd make it a profitble business and not likely to whine about this crap. @ op ================ stop the evemail spam!"
"dec shield has received enough generous donations to break even with operating costs for the foreseeable future already. we were gifted with a bhaalgorn, and around 100mil in smaller donations from assorted sources. we were originally going to make dec shield a paid service, but decided we wanted as many people to use it at possible, and isk was never an issue. and while i appreciate you bumping the thread goose99 you seem to be lacking the reading comprehension to understand what we're doing here. we're not fighting these wars, we're making sure others can't."
"i support making highsec less safe and removing this loophole with an overhaul to the criminal flagging and war systems."
"+ 1 i totally agree with this, when the servers go down and you just scanned everything if the site didn't despawn it should not change in any manner. same would be said for if you go to the station and log off and come back on. the site is still there it"
"i am curious...does sisi go through the same downtime and restart that tq does each day? i ask because i want to log into sisi right before downtime to scan and rescan after to see what sisi does. to my knowledge nobody has tried this. the easy assumption being that it will do exactly what tq does but you never know...they might have a fix in place they just haven't mentioned."
"edit: holy crap they did it!"
"woo."
"because of falcon --> because of eaf...i'm ok with that!"
"i have always been in favor of games actually looking at the comments people leave about their tickets. the devs have no way of knowing if their assets are being deployed correctly otherwise. some sort of system to review tickets to see if the issue could have been solved after the fact to keep only the gm's who can think outside of the box would be appropriate."
"i must agree + 1 on this threadyou cannot take away the bottom line of this game, this game isn't safe it makes you think on your toes every second of the day. new players need to know that and sugar coating them in the recruitment channel is not going to protect them its going to hurt them. becuase, they will think that everyone is nice and will get hurt even worse later on when they actually have things to loose more then their pride. eve is a univrse always on the go and always changing, it has made a name for itself that other mmo's have not. what you do inpacts people in the real world, that you cannot play this game if you cannot think on your toes, please don't change this ccp."
"for rr how about everyone in fleet on grid is on the killmail. put flags on the killmail for boosting/repping/pointing/ewar and just doing nothing. atleast if everyone is on the killmail people might drop the 4x sebo's for tank."
"hmm, well, hopefully they'll get round to it at some point. if they do i might grind my sec back up and try some high sec warfare again, might be nice to have some fights that don't consist mainly of aligning out unless a cyno pops and a fleet of supercaps appears :dif they don't, it would be nice if they could explain their reasoning. if there's a genuine technical limitation, fair enough, it would just be nice to know if it's something that will ever be fixed.hah, true, although i hope they have a flag for \"do not show my alt that is in the enemy alliance and was cloaked in fleet off the gate\". that could be embarrassing imho the easiest way would be to amend the \"involved parties\" part of a km, so that it adds to the list any pilot who has remote repped one of the attacking pilots whilst they where aggressed. perhaps even showing repair amount, although that wouldn't strictly be necessary if it created too much server load.although as floppie pointed out, that would probably result in some major kill mail whoring. i might even train up logi myself either way, it'd be pretty messing adding rr to kms, i'd prefer if they just changed it so rr wasn't the only valid strategy in high sec wars*.*inb4 \"it isn't\": it is."
"this gets a + from me, the system needs to be revamped. when you have entire corps out there who are based around remote repping other corps who do wars and split the loot i belive its time for a change, if at least that the player who is at war with your rr target can now target you without concord intervention it would be nice. i like the fact that we are getting teh ability to see implants, possibly clothing in the future. but i have had several of these issues mentioned come up, if someone jumps trough the gate it resets their damage counters bascially, and so you have to follow them trough and hit them again to get on killmails. so say a fleet is engaging a person in say a orca and he powers tyrough you to the otherside and barley jumps. then you have a few guys on the otherside, whalla it looks like a bc took out a orca by himself. rr it has always been a problem to me that they can disengage and warp away no problem, but think about it this way your a logi ship with no way of defending yourself. to that i belive they do need to be marked on teh killmails, otherwise it would look silly that a few af take out a large ship or can surive in lowsec at stations or gates. i have yet to figure out what cuases the killmails to break, becuase you have killmails with hundreds on them and they are correct and you have killmails with 4 people on it and their fittings are wrong."
"imho fleet boosters (whether off or on grid) should also show up on killmails. anything that contributes to the kill should show up.make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"security is like an onion. no, not because it smells or looks like an ogre, but because it involves layers. one simple layer of security is to ensure that people's email addresses are not the same as their account name.one principle of security is, \"least privilege\". that is, don't give people privileges or information they don't need. since you don't really need the account name to sell someone a character, that information is excess to requirements.here's an example of how it could work: i want to sell a character, to i start a character sale ticket (or \"charter\" for short). you want to buy my character, so you bid on the charter and nominate an account for the character to be transferred to (this information is held in the charter system, not revealed to the seller) i accept your bid (or your bid is the highest above reserve price at the conclusion of the auction period) the system transfers the character based on you winning the charter auction thus the only information revealed by the system relates exclusively to the character for sale.at present the risk is minimal, assuming the people involved have decently strong passwords. in the future the risk will be slightly lower due to the use of the token generators. a charter system as described will help smooth out the process though."
"hisec industry needs a bit of a buff, the margins are razor thin. to encourage this, (un)fortunately, more things need to be blown up and minerals taken out of the system.ccp, could we please have - 1) a concerted investigation into drone region botting, which i believe accounted for 1/3 of minerals in the game at present?2) hisec ship losses used to be much higher than now, perhaps skewed by insurance fraud. could we possibly look at:2a) a slight buff to the higher tier insurance payouts2b) reduction in time for concord response, making well planned ganking viable in higher security systems2c) a slight buff to npc rats dps across the board to make missions and anomalies slightly harder and make more ships explode.2d) a look at the faction warfare mechanics so that faction warfar can be carried out into hisec as well, and get more people involved with blowing things up.this will hopefully encourage more ships exploding and as such, will boost mining and industry margins."
"how is this a buff to mining and industry again?================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"simple economics actually. supply is inversely proportional to demand and vice-versa.the more ships that get destroyed, the higher the demand for the replacement of said ships, and thus the more that need to be manufactured. thus the more minerals that would need to be gathered to manufacture said ships. therefore creating a new supply to replace what was destroyed.this creates more work for the legitimate industrial pilots in the game (if bots are removed, there will be less competition for materials against them and real players) and may actually lower the prices of certain items which have been targetted for rmt, say.. plex (which if you have been watching recent market trends) have had their prices rising at alarming rates due to inflation created by isk faucets (bot mining and incursions). i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"war is the engine that drives the universe. just like any other consumption-driven economy, destruction is more valuable than construction."
"well put.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"apologies for restating what you'd already posted :)i should refresh before submitting my carefully crafted verbiage."
"while ccp guys are reading this thread and are taking down ideas, i'm going to harvest this thread for good ideas to introduce to the conversation we have at the next summit. some ideas might be utterly dumb but parts of them might be cool and work well when put with other stuff so it's all useful, even the bad ones. i'm taking down notes and paraphrasing a lot of this and hope to make some good headway this next month. keep posting ideas! but yea gtc chat would be better placed in a different thread."
"as with most folk who have posted here there are some niggles like setting up multiple research and manufacturing jobs,maybe find some way of automating them."
"level 4 missions are boring.mind numbling boring.some dynamic missions with a real challenge and a better ai would maybe make them somewhat intresting.also long term goals and group missions are restricted to wh space or incursions.higher level missions that can be completed in a short time maybe even with a group would be fun. not asking for more isk per hour...just something intresting."
"imo a silly solution, get more accounts so you can use more ram."
"you are right...what was i thinking? lol"
"i like the idea but there is a better hull than the procurer to use for this ship class, the primae/noctis hull was made for this kind of mining at the very least ccps art department could add a few gas tanks to the model but i think it is there. it is easy enough to set it up with the hard points (as they are already in place on the noctis) for the current gas miners, so there wouldn't be as much work getting it set for this role, as a guess.i think it would work well with the folloing:6 high slots - 5 miners + slot for probe launcher or cloak, 4 - 5 mid slots - for a tank3 low slots - for cargo expanders25m3 drone bay - for defence.20% reduction of gas harvester duration per levelrole bonus: 200% better yield for gas harvesters per levelseriously these attributes would be good as gas mining more than any other form of miing is like watching paint dry getting the mining cycle down to maybe 20seconds and 60m3 yields will cut the mining time, but not too significantly will probably still take a good amount of time to clear a gas site. the other option is up the amount of gas in gas sites . i think this would work well in this configuration."
"what floppie said."
"so, all this is supposed to do is get people to play more in lowsec? why not remove sec status grinding from hisec too, then?"
"no.... the op is just a glorified carebear...its a stealth boost to high sec profits.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"who has a few thousand more kills that you and that is just with one of my characters.you have stated your opinion on my idea a few times. fine. trying to label it as some boost to the amount of money someone makes in high sec is just stupid."
"supported. once you're red, you should be red for good. this will be a boost to low/null population."
"-10/10 quantifire you provide something down there that someone can bribe their way back into highsec or something similar. this game after all is about the market, if you remove a legal means of getting back into highsec then one should be able to use lo"
"so, marlona sky just wants to remove sec status grinding from nullsec, not from hisec as well (where the gain to lowsec is potentially bigger)?ps: goose99, you're missing the point. read the post again."
"**** grid only gang links. i would not be opposed to not allowing gang links to be active inside a force field though."
"you're already flying two accounts to get the bonuses, the only difference is they now both require attention."
"so you actually have no problem at all with a genuinely invulnerable gang boosting ship in a pos participating in a fight, but you're complaining about a totally probeable ship doing the same?okyou know those horribly vulnerable, untanked \"safe\"spotted t3s are not cheap at all. spend some isk of your own and probe them out. you don't even have to risk your prober since the safespotted t3s are unarmed."
"if someone's genuinely not paying attention to their 800m isk ship, then you're looking at an easy kill.bring a dictor, because you may have noticed those skirmish mindlinks going past the 100m mark lately."
"that's not a fact, it's an opinion.we may agree on something in the future, who knows. rather than asking questions 1 & 2, you need to ask the correct ones.1. should someone be able to fit a tech 3 to work off grid?2. should a corp gain the benefits from a pos they took the time to install?3. do all these options have a counter and are they open to all?you lot are basically saying: \"we don't want to be bothered with finding tech3 or fitting/equipping ourselves for the task. therefore we think ccp should nerf it.\"oh and this idea will make it more tedious, not less. (that was a weak argument to bring tbh)if they are so easy, you put one up and reap the benefits too.the interaction of fuelling the pos is being made easier. but as you have to build the fuel blocks, you can hardly claim it as being dumbed down.there is nothing theoretical about it, you just need to equip accordingly. rather like the tech 3 ship has.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"i'm against it.why: because:1) this request is a \"i want you to play eve the way i play it\" request2) it will affect missionrunners, miners and incursion players as well.dissonance is recruiting members:"
"the arguing about this is just stupid now. ccp has enough common sense. mark my words...this will be corrected in the future. predicting it now with my psychic mojo."
"you did not answer my questions so i will take it you admit it does not dumb down the game to require link ships to be on grid. in fact its pretty brainless when they are not on grid at a safe. however i will still answer yours because they are easy.1) it can work but it's work should not directly influence a battle that is happening on grid.2) yes and i am not suggesting we remove every reason to build a pos. 3) yes it has a counter. the counter is the immersion breaking <U+FFFD>eve is a chore<U+FFFD> option of dragging an alt around yourself and multiboxing your combat so you can compete. that option sucks. the other <U+FFFD>counters<U+FFFD> don't work well as explained above. no i am saying everyone seems to agree that no one really uses these ships with their main. people who use them are multi-boxing. i am saying that, for me and many others, that completely breaks the immersion of this game and makes it more of a chore than fun. ccp is now boosting these alts with new tech 2 links wich will make a bad situation worse, for everyone who just wants to have some fun with eve and not treat it as a job. after the bonuses people who do not have these alts will simply not be competitive and so will not engage in pvp. yes i realize that ccp likely thinks it would be great to force everyone who wants to be competitive to pay for an additional account and multibox pvp. however, i think this is very short sighted. i for one refuse to do this in pvp. now that these links are so damn powerful i may not be able to pvp any longer at least not solo like i normally do. moreover i bet allot of people who keep dragging these alts around will get tired of eve as well. sure not all of them. there are a few in this game that are such drones they would do anything regardless of how tiresome and lame. but there will be more than a few who get sick of it . yet they will still realize that if they don<U+FFFD>t others will have a huge advantage in pvp and therefore they will burn out. you think flying ships on grid during a pvp battle is tedious??make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"so it is working as intended then?"
"1. no. tech 3 can bring links to same grid and be pretty useful. there's no fair reason for them to be in perfect safety in safespot. and even on same grid they can be flown in a way they're near untouchable anyway. 2. yes. but not for links. having a pos in system is a benefit alone. reason for putting up a pos shouldn't be making perfect safe for titan or link boat. also it's not too much trouble to put up random pos, especially when 0.0 alliances have pos in every system anyway.3. doing weed is bad for your health. stop it."
"if they intend to make eve a game that can't be played unless you are multi-boxing alts then yes its working as intended. is that good for the game?make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"i am just saying that ccp (via player feedback) has decided that group play is better than solo play. they consistantly give carrots to activities and tactics that require 2+ characters by granting bonuses or positive scaling mechanics. ccp does not, however, have an ingame mechanism to filter out alt characters from real characters (bad terminology but you get my drift). nor do i think that ccp would want to have such a mechanism even if it was possible. i know a lot of players who wouldn't that is for sure.so long as efficiency is greater by bringing more characters (whether more people are at screens or not) alt use will increase.are multiple players engaged in activity cooperatively good for the game? ccp and many players seem to think so.is bypassing the need for friends via the alt mechanics good for the game? any rule to the contrary would be un-enforceable so the point is moot imo."
"what feedback are you refering to? if the players already prefered group play why would ccp need to give huge isk incentives to join in groups e.g., incursions? its not based on what players want its based on what ccp wants. many players don't look to eve as their social medium and ccp is trying to change that. ccp want more of players lives invested in the game. it's understandable from a business perspective. but lets assuming they \"intend\" to drive out all the solo players. making it so you are no longer solo because you have an alt in a booster ship is unlikely to be what they are intending. (although i do think they may intend to try to get everyone to feel they must have alt accounts to play so that they can make more money. i addressed this earlier in the thread and still believe such a view is short sighted. its the sort of approach a company that wants to sell a game would take not one that hopes to have a game long term.) well this particular situation is pretty clearly just for alts. or do you know people who like to sit their main at a pos giving their fleet a boost and not doing anything else? no one seems to be stepping up and saying that doing that is a very important part of their main's gameplay. i'm sure such people exist, but are there numbers great enough to justify losing the number of people who thinks it sucks that you have to mess around with multiple accounts in order to play this game competitively?make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"that is exactly what i meant by \"better\". the feedback i refer to comes in the way of people posting about how they would have left the game a long time ago if it had not been for the fact that they were part of a corp that they bonded with. it also comes from seeing people resub just because thier rl friends (or people that they play other games with) keep talking about good fights, funny ganks, etc.i never made this claim. i merely said that group play gets carrots.last i checked carrots are not sticks.this sounds like a complaint against needing a gangbooster even as a \"solo\" player. to that degree it does not matter if that boosting is done by a pos alt or by an ongrid (because ongrid does not mean actually vulnerable) player/alt.you hit the nail on the head with the complaint about :effort: involved in dragging an alt around for boosting. that effort will be even greater if it has to be ongrid (which is why people dont like such a change... especially when splitting up a gang/fleet across many grids) which means that much more frustration. unfortunately, as you yourself point out, many people see gangboosters as \"necessary\" to be competative. so people wont stop using them, they will just be bitter about how much more effort it takes with them being on grid.or they stop bothering to pvp in small gangs completely."
"an easy solution to war dec greifing.a corp or alliance has to have an in space destroyable resource to declare war on another corp or alliance. pos, or tcu. this asset becomes broadcast to the other party involved in a wardec. and the asset can only be used in one wardec at a time. if you wish to wardec more than one organization, additional assets need to be allocated for declaration.if the said target is destroyed, then the war dec is over at that instant. if in the case of an alliance. if the corp that owns that resource leaves the alliance, the war dec follows the tower or tcu. this could be expanded further, to high sec and null sec war decs. but null sec would need a lot more \"resources\" and give and take to make it useful.this will allow the receiving corp/alliance an opportunity to turn the tables on a corp or alliance that declares war only to turtle up in a station. let the organization declaring war put up something of value as a risk."
"it's called your ship/pod.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"well, until the door opens and i can hunt you down in station, that's not a viable option to hurt a turtle."
"your missing the point.war decs happen to specifically take your ship and pod down.everything else is just the means to an end.if you havn't figured that out yet....you have no business posting your ideas to attempt to solve this so called paradox.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"you can do that without a wardec, just ask the goonies and all the blue ice miners in empire. i don't miss the point, i get the point that its currently a way for cowards and greifers to get their rocks off. whats the matter, don't like the mark fighting back? well tough. carebears have teeth, and when you figure that out, you run and hide, and we want our chance to bite back, were hungry for your pod too. but concord wont let us crack you out of a station, so, no risk, no reward as you pvp'rs like to say."
"again...you completely missed the point.1: war decs are a legitimate means of being allowed to kill and pod repeatedly without concord intervention... its cheap means of getting business done.2: goonies are doing what they do because they can and they dont give a crap about cost....they are likely not evenly sweating the cost as it is.3: this has nothing to do with carebears fighting back or pvp'ers throwing a fit.the bottom line - this is about war dec mechanics.... your assumption is nothing more than a foolish attempt to troll me.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"sisi does indeed have a daily downtime. however: it is not at the same time of day as tq's downtime."
"i would be curious to know if sigid for sites can be keept static while allowing other items to remain variable.bump for dev feedback on this thread."
"bump"
"thisalso making mining like pi would remove the need for multibox miners, and i don't think ccp wants to do anything that would cause people to unsub their accounts"
"you must be a chribba alt +1 to this!"
"i have no connection to chribba, but thanks for the interest!still working on the full version of the proposal, instead of the half-assed random idea version confirming that this will be something that works best with lots of people in an op sense, as opposed to a solo-only activity in a pi sense"
"+1.also think about adding more hull hp to mining barges...check the moderated 10000 papercuts evelopedia page!"
"supported; as a logi pilot, i rather dislike the current sensor/eccm effects, and would very much appreciate an update."
"yes. antennas with small effects would be cool and enough."
"current sensor booster effect gives me a headache. please change before someone starts having seizures.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"aww, does it hurt the poor pirates little eyeballs?"
"im not a big fan of sebo effect either. i find them very intrusive and annoying. one or two ships with them is one thing but when theres 200 of those at once..... yuk."
"after a few long discussions with friends, i have been swayed to the idea that ccp would do better to increase the benefit and number of places where eaf's are the only available recon-type ship, rather than trying to force eaf's into general purpose boats.the former creates more player driven content. the latter creates more balance headaches and whine threads."
"sig radius isn't the same as physical size, and if you have lots of em emissions (hint: 'electronic attack')..."
"interesting, because according to gm spiral (in a petition) :"
"ok first up...astarteabsolutionnighthawk and sleipnir to come."
"i support this for just being able to get a black harby on looks alone! =d"
"um... assuming you mean the damnation, as per the op, it would retain the prophecy model."
"of course im bored why the heck would i waste time in the forums btw the day i can fly a nyx in high sec then i'll get one"
"if you want a drone mining ship, fit up a domidone"
"if aoe, then it should be- possible in all kinds of space- deal same damage to all entities in the radius (no difference to large /small ships)and why should a self-destruct not cause damage? you are still able to \"overload\" your ship to explode (factor in a mix of remaining cap and hull?) - this should cause more damage than the breaking of the last intact steel beam?!in the end balancing is needed how much aoe could be done in what circumstances. i could imagine smaller ships doing less aoe damage at a smaller radius. amount should vary and be no more than 2 smartbombs going off (small ship=small smart bomb, ...). so in regards to ganking or blobs have a limited impact.check the moderated 10000 papercuts evelopedia page!"
"im sure its been said before but im going to bring it up again. - regular carriers should be given the bandwidth to be able to field 5 figterbombers. this could be done by a class buff getting a reduction to the bandwidth required or simply just increasing the bandwidth allowance. to balance this a carrier should only be able to carry a max of 5 figterbombers in their drone bay, so unlike a super carrier fielding 20, they cant pour wave after wave of good dps. so a theoretical carrier hanger would look like so: : 5 fighter bombers : 13 fighters+ the regular assortment of other drones/sentry/logistics - ship scales on regular carriers need to be fixed. if a supercarrier is theoretically too big according the ccp to dock in a station then why a carrier ( which is the same size as a large battleship ) can fit a battleship + an assortment of other ships in its hanger. increase the model scale by 50% at least.on top of the above you have another 90,000 m3 for drone space ... problem physics? its a capital ship .... it shouldn<U+FFFD>t be the same size and a machariel !!!!!!!!!!!!funny enough out of the above 2 points the one id be most happy to see would be the size increase of the ship scale.point to note - a carrier having 5 fighter bombers will not make them over powered . frigs/cruisers/bc's take them out easy enough as is. limiting a carrier to being able to only carry 5 at any given time will balance out the swarm."
"why? carriers already have fighters and fighter bombers were intentionally a s.carrier-only thing."
"its situational - the ability to be able to field something more than 1000dps on larger targets while being limited to numbers.lose your fighterbombers... lose your dpsagreed - fb's were intended for supercarriers ... but super carriers were also not intended to be sub-invincible"
"are you factoring in the changes to sc's annouced today/recently or are you just ranting? *not meant as a troll*================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i read a forum post recently where a newer player (oddly was in a mac mining ice) complained that the goons had threatened her/him/it to stop mining ice or be destroyed... well no issues here, but it got me thinking about the new/old high/null arguments that abounds of late.i am not proposing hearts and flowers... i ask for no commitments or promises and expect to get flamed to death for saying the following. if those of you in highsec want to be left alone, why play a multiplayer game? it seems a bit odd, to be missing common sense, when you can buy an old copy of homeworld and get practically the same graphics and never get ganked, never have to interact, never have to do anything but win. it seems so strange to diverge your course from single player games and not your thinking... when you join a game like eve, that you must have presumed that its not about missions or mining, or winning, its about camaraderie and fellowship, and war stories made real by the people who flew them, even if its just internet spaceships.at the same time the elite few, those old schoolers who have unlimited resources and huge alliances backing them, seem to forget they were once the ostracized carbears that other older players scoffed at. you relish the power and influence but you forget that there are players who do want to join you in 0.0 but cant get in, because of skill points or whatever, alot of corps and alliance say \"we'll train/teach you\", and then the app gets declined for whatever reason (said it before and i'll say it again, these decisions are based on experience and profit/loss perspective of the interviewer as they should be).the goal needs to be that we remember that behind each toon is an eager player, who wants to come be a part of something, to his own ends and with his own means. yes we love war and ganking and piracy, but take a moment the next time you see a newb at a gate, trapped in a bubble and after you pop his ship, think to offer him a chance to earn it back by flying for you. and newbs remember that you are never scorned or scoffed at for fighting, but hiding out, and not willing to be a part of the big picture, will label you a carebear or worse.i'm not a goon, but i always liked the tag, \"no not believing in yourself.\" and to me that's what eve really has been, a lesson in human strength of will, sense of adventure, and occasionally, abject humility.note.. i think what i'm trying to say is the old vets need to set a bar high enough, but not so far out of reach for the new players to achieve... and the new players need, and learn to accept, encouragement, not through game mechanics, but interactions to get out and really join the fun.grain of salt, thanks for readingjaime"
"i am not sure how non-censensual pvp could be forbidden - you would not be allowed to fire any weapon or smartbomb in those ultra-highsec-space anymore?! not to my liking. but i would like to see ganking made harder...otherwise yes, the sandbox - also in higsec - should be able to be shaped by players. pvp and pve need to blend. i see lots of potential for fw to interact here. give us influence on lots of factors e.g. concord response times, and give your standings more meaning!check the moderated 10000 papercuts evelopedia page!"
"so in order to make solo ganking harder, you want to make all ships have more hp, thus having a potential huge effect on all pvp?"
"yes, exactly, i would like to see all fighting / pvp changed in that direction - longer engagements. maybe just increase hull hp - those hp would then usually not be available to repairs in combat... but it would be fun to see some hull logistics out there ;) maybe make modules fail when you go into hull... but the way it is currently, being killed by a few shots, possibly before you have even targeted back, i find this just ridiculous. and i think with tier 3 bc this will get even worse... lets see...check the moderated 10000 papercuts evelopedia page!"
"^^ this +1"
"many complaints from high sec players are that accessibility to low-sec sucks, this particularly affects indies, and face it most toons in lowsec for life, are pirates anyway.lots of ideas are out there so i'll toss one that i think might work.give concord patrol/protection in low-sec to defend mining and indi ships, just like highsec.unarmed ships, hulks, bestowers etc.. get the same protection, but armed vessels get no additional protection.gate/stations guns do not protect armed ships in high or lowsec at all.that isnt to say that they cannot be ganked, simply that concord will show up in low-sec, timed by the security status of the character, higher status faster response.this reduces the barriers of getting newbs involved in lowsec and gives a comfort barrier for the indies.at the same time, reduce the response time of concord for combat ships in highsec, by the sec standing of the aggressor, the lower the agressors sec status the faster concord gets there. my thinking is this, in the old west, outlaws were armed, and the sheriff rarley if ever came to their defense, but he was willing to ride into the desert to defend innocent townfolk.last but not least, wardecs take effect within 15 minutes for lowsec space, and the normal 24 hours for fighting in highsec."
"this isn't what i would call a improvement for those in low sec....seems the high sec people got the bigger advantage.might want to check your balance a bit.oh and as a matter of fact..... war decs aren't worth crap out side of high sec....because anyone can shoot you.even in-spite of sec penalties.so with that kind of conclusion....this proposal is a buff to high sec...and a zero to low sec.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"double post.. sorry"
"yeah the more i look at this the more i am thinking a fuel bay is the answer.it's more of a time investment thing really. i want to know that if some neut in system is making me waste my time, then i want to know that i am making him waste his time too. i want to know that some spotty teenager is popping ritalin and missing his sadie hawkins dance so that he can prevent a system full of people from ratting / mining.making someone fly off and gas up their cloak every 2-3 hours at least ensures that they need to be putting effort into showing up in local.i like the idea of afk cloaking being a battle of will, or at least a \"who can stare at the nebula longer\" contest.i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"this"
"lol tbh this ^^will it ever happen i doubt it..too much epeen and bragging rights..."
"be happy to have killed someone, why you need a kilmail ?remove killmails. problem solved, but this will never happen.but imho this problem has a very low priority."
"eve is a competitive game, you compete for isk, we compete for kills. kill to death ratio, isk efficiency etc. are all used to judge a corporation or alliance's skill in combat. therefore the current kill mail system negatively effects recruitment for pvp alliances and corporations, and for individuals. we need good kill boards to get into corporations.all things you'd probably know if you had ever actually killed anybody in this game. either you're an alt hiding a terrible kill board (likely), or you're a very new player who obviously isn't interested in pvp, in which case kms shouldn't really be your concern at all.hmm, maybe, although sometimes i'd prefer to keep certain toons secret. so as long as it was an opti-in function. as it is i believe there are mods for the edk killboard to give scouts and other participants an honourable mention on a kill mail that's been posted.perhaps something similar in the fleet window would be nice, although it would probably be open to abuse. (afk toons being added to kms etc.)i just wouldn't want the km system to become a method for garnering intel that couldn't otherwise be garnered elsewhere. especially when we have toons in alliances they shouldn't be in according to ccp the kms break due to high load on the cluster the fight occurred on, although just how low a priority they must have set them to for this to occur astounds me.the fact that we're going to be able to see implants shows they are at least trying to improve the kill mail system, ccp even say they \"love\" kill mails in their blog. but do they? what is the point in something this inaccurate? i'd prefer they spent time, money and resources on fixing the issues it currently has rather than adding features which may or may not cause more.either way i can't see adding implant kms lowering server load, so if they can manage that, why can't they raise the priority?"
"industry standard? i sure am, my password is \"password\" and it's stuck to my screen on a post-it."
"what about using account api id's? or generate a unique key."
"quite alright. it's worth saying more than once, because a lot of people won't read the more verbose explanation due to short attention spans.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"margins are razor thin because anyone can do it with plenty of slots in empire stations and safe access to market hubs, furthermore lots of bots and multiboxers mining the low ends.if a person has 10 accounts running with minimal activity on their part on working, they will consider mining even if its just 10-20 a hour in a hulk, multiplied by 10 that's 100-200 hour for minimal effort. they will do it, with not a care in the world of the prices needing to be higher to sustain desires of one person doing it part time of the day.also lots of.... the 'minerals i mine are free' kind of manufacturers. people buy the item at the cost of of below minerals, because people are too stupid to check before they manufacture something because it seems cool.it needs no boast, people just got to be less stupid and go for things that are not unprofitable.the lack of profit or any is all generated by players.1. do tech 2 like lots of other people in empire, and of the right items, those have profit.2. for planetary interaction, you can extract (no cost) or take p2 and make it into p4 with a daily profit that can be measured in the tens of millions per day per char.3. mine lots of minerals, reprocess and sell them, never manufacture anything unless any significant profit exists for minerals, more the what they would sell for, because extra effort could be used for more extracting minerals."
"drone region botting affects nullsec waaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaay more than high sec. they get craptons of mega and zyd, not trit and such. for that look to highsec botters because there's tons of them. mining and industry in highsec are doing fine and dandy. if you don't like your margins, find a new region to work in. you'd be amazed at the differences between the different trade hubs. jita may have what you make dirt cheap while the same item in rens is at double the cost."
"recently my alliance ran into the following issue:- corp a sets up r&d pos with alliance lab usage rights.- corp b has a member that wanted to copy bpos.- under current restrictions, the member of corp b was unable to use corp a's labs to copy bpos, however, research for material/time efficiency could be conducted without a problem.what i suggest is that if a corp within an alliance sets up a pos for alliance usage, the members of the alliance should be able to use copy slots, and in a pinch should be able to fuel said pos if the owner/operator is away due to rl constraints.would save a lot of issues, headaches, and ****ed off people.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"1.0"
"it was a loaded question and if he's dumb, it really makes no difference where he is, he'll still diaf horribly.so they all have counters, it's just back to the 'we can't be arsed' argument.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"supported."
"when your commanding a fleet your on grid. plane and simple. deal with it. you dont see the great captain picard in his commandship giving orders from earth do ya?"
"i'm not sure what you mean. on grid does indeed mean actually vulnerable.there is a difference between the immersion breaking tedious \"effort\" of multi boxing alts with you werever you go and the \"effort\" you need to make when you are on the grid of a pvp battle. the former is tedious effort the latter is fun. i agree that command ships are powerful enough to still be used even if they needed to be on grid. actually i think they would actually be balanced against the t3s, if booster ships had to be on grid because now there is little point in even training them. its just that instead of being a ship that people always fly with an alt they would be flown by peoples main characters. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"if the counter to this is - \"well get your own army of alts to multibox\" then that is crap. notice no one is denying that you will need these booster alts to be competitive after the t2 links hit the market.now the only question is how long will it take before people realize that eve is a game that in order to play it you must invest in alts that you multibox around the universe? i can tell you if i knew eve was going to be a game that you *had* to multi box alt accounts to be competitive i never would have installed it. does ccp really want the game to get this reputation?like i said the only reason they would want this is to get the short term burst of new accounts so that they can demonstrate numbers to sell the game. but in the long run this sort of thing will ruin the game. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"this really isn't any different than pvp in any other mmo however. these ships are basically \"buffing\" other ships. similar to what a priest might do in wow. although i think a healer would be more along the lines of a logistics ship. the only difference is in most mmo games you cast your buff on a character and it remains until a timer expires or that person dies or it is based on proximity to your group. same \"general\" idea applies to what we do in eve. you have your tank, dps, healers, crowd control and buffers...but everything is a little more mixed and generalized.it doesn't mean we have to have an alt to stay competitive but those that do have alts will definately have the upper hand."
"quoting myself from similar threads."
"the original post suggests common sense fixes. supported.here's another possible fix. every war is assigned an 'original target', which may be an alliance, corporation or even a single character. if the original target is a corp, then it follows that corp as it joins and leaves alliances. if the original target is a character, it follows when that character changes corp. if the character joins an npc corp, the war is still there, but reverts to a 'cannot fight' status until such time as the character rejoins a player corp."
"and it will never ever be misused by someone willing to permanently pay the wardec fee. never. it is simply impossible."
"nicely said mara v.people confuse station games with the fact that common sense is simply this -no one said i had to go out there and risk my equipment on the obvious fact i'd lose it gaurenteed.war decs deny the ability to play the game the way you want too at the behest of threat of losing your ship and likely your pod.valid mechanic to be sure...works as intended.but war dec's do not force you to lose that ship....you choose to lose that ship by undocking.war dec'ing corporations/alliance complain about that particular bit.which therein lies the paradox pointed out by mara v...if not implied.you force something on a \"carebear\"yet you scream when said carebear refuses to grant you that pleasure of killing.unless they are foolish enough to cross.and then you have the people who are hyporcritical enough to accuse everyone else of the same games when they commit same act themselves.i don't care how good you get at proposing.... until that paradox is solved....war-decs are likely gonna be as they are...if not worse...for a long tmie to come.i may hate them...but they are necessary.and once that carebear knows how to fight....that war dec becomes your worst nightmare.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"this is a simple sollution, ccp brethren. add it to the \"things to do\" list, chaps. cheers"
"disagree with panther drone bay reduction, panther is based on typhoon - drones all the way.if you don't have you drones trained, don't whine. typhoon platform is know for being skills intensive and versatile, including, turrents, cruise, torpes and drones.don't mess with thatotherwise, blackops needs a boost - just no covops cloak."
"i don't get how they'd do this? the only thing i could think of is making them immune to bubbles?"
"which idiot dev came up with this garbage?whoever it was, fire him and biomass any offspring.also, do what the op said."
"if you can give me a job been a gm thats great.. :d yeah had a few problems sorted out by gm's the have followed the rules and been a asset to the game imo..its the rules that people have a problem with like rembursement of ships due to a dc or summat like that.. :d"
"i was thinking...its getting hard enough to run this game on my computer and i would think that most people dont play on like state of the art computers so why upgrade the graphics with new warp trails etc etc new skins for ships oooo aaaaahhh they look pretty...most people can not afford to replace there comuters or upgrade in these days/times....most people i know trun graphics to minimal anyway to run the game for best performance and turn off brackets.. :d also with these new graphics out of the window will bring down the sizes of the updates and personally if i wanted to download a game then download 20gig of updates i would play wow (no i would not its crap lol)....i love this game.... :din short please dunt upgrade the graphics anymore.. or make them optional downloads that would suite everyone i think... :d like a basic client like you had before and a enhansed graphics pach that could be downloaded if required.. :d"
"as much sa i symphathize with you...this game cannot get anywhere without progress....its over 6 years old if not older.there's been many changes in industry. honestly the only thing i'd ask is if they slow it down progression wise.but what is slow?depends on whose computer your sitting in front of.ps: if they spent an entire patch towards fixing things...might actually help.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"giving options to graphics etc would not be slowing down progress... it would give the user more control of what they want and how they want to run the game....this inturn could increase users machine performance etc etc.....on the other hand......say they delaid graphics upgrades they would save a hell of alot of resources (money time etc) and they could focus on fixing bugs from the first patch and upward.. this would be progress in it self.. :d for me and alot of others that graphics are not that important as a upgrade but game features and fixes i find that the resources would be better spent... why reinvent the wheel and stick with what we have for now on the graphics side anyways.. :d"
"keeping the graphics \"fresh\" means that you can retain the feeling of novelty while the players are still playing the same game for years at a time.i'm currently playing eve on a 17\" 2ghz imac core 2 duo, which has a radeon x1600 graphics card. this is borderline supported, i still play the game just fine (except for shadows: the graphics card hates shadows, they expand to fill the entire universe, bogging the machine down as the processor tries to comprehend the enormity of nothingness), and that model imac is now 5 years old. it's time for me to upgrade (i haven't tried singularity on my mac <U+FFFD> by the time i download it, there's a new patch out).in the meantime, my laptop is getting the same frame rates with \"medium\" detail as it was previously getting with \"low\" detail. i don't know what magic ccp have pulled here, but it's pretty awesome.i would recommend you try the singularity client. see how it runs on your computer: i'm sure you'll be pleasantly surprised."
"gonna have to go with no on this one. sorry...but why should i, with my shiny computer and new hardware, suffer because you don't have a good enough pc? you will always have the ability to turn your graphics down...there is absolutely no logical reason to stop ccp from keeping eve relevant by upgrading the graphics unless they \"force\" you to play it on high graphics and remove the ability to adjust graphical settings."
"hi epsilonion, i will try to give you some information that should put your mind at ease. we take performance into account on any graphics development task we take on and in actual fact i think you'll find the client will only perform better with the current 'upgrades'.i will give you a few examples:the warp effect - this is a new effect which actually has less overhead than the old warp tunnel because the shader instructions were reduced (it's just been done in a more efficient manner). however, we added the 'distortion' effect which of course has an overhead associated with it which makes the tunnel slightly heavier on resources. we decided to only enable the distortion effect when players select the shader quality 'high' setting.this means that if people have computers that can<U+FFFD>t handle the distortion effect they can turn on the medium shader quality and still experience a really good looking warp effect.v3ing of ships - we have created a new texture packing method that is more optimal giving us greater control and fidelity on the ship textures. this method also reduces the size of the textures, thus you will have less loaded textures in your gpu memory and the client size will reduce because the file sizes have gone down.now the client size is going to go up this release but the reason for this is that we have actually added all factional variants for each v3'd ship hull, however these are not hooked up in-game yet.**ccp vertex | senior development manager ** | @ccp_vertex"
"excellent answer! thank you, ccp vertex, and know that your efforts in making things better looking and more efficient are very much appreciated! <3"
"most things can be turned off.also i can run eve on a really old lap top i picked up for $50....."
"i have no problems personally with the aoe damage working in all space. a problem i would have with it is people exploiting it for ganking and piracy in high sec on stations. my original intent with this part of the idea was to allow explosions in high sec to cause damage to other ships. however i wanted to have an idea where gates and stations had some sort of explosion dampening field that would prevent the aoe damage on ships within a range of 250km of a gate or station but only in highsec. what i would hate to see is people blowing up their own ships in large numbers doing massive damage to other smaller ships in large numbers just for the hell of it. i thought my solution would work rather well and even had a lore reason behind it but people shot it down to no end so i dropped it.also to answer your question on the self destruct issue. the idea was that a self destruct is a controlled destruction of the ship in which your ships power core is purged before the ship is destroyed. when you blow up from taking too much damage you don't have the opportunity to do this so the power core explodes causing the damage to other ships."
"yes, as long as it takes into acount signature size.don't want a fleet fight and every frigate is dead within the first couple tackles.frigates should take very little damage.i really would like to see this.as for poeple worries about ganking....a ship explosion will not do more damage than 8 large smart bombs.if i want to suicide aoe gank you....i will and my ship explosion will not be what does it. a ship explosion would not one shot any ship.just pointing out all the worries of abuse are sort of silly."
"48h sounds way too harsh, but pods being completely left alone even after possibly repeated commited crimes sounds strange... adding a timer to leave space might be reasonable - after that also that pod would be attacked by concord... this would also benefit countering ganking from orca drops...check the moderated 10000 papercuts evelopedia page!"
"yes because necro'ing a thread is a brilliant idea....noob.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"pvp and pve should blend. yes. i would like to see this in .5-.6 systems. how to deal with concord then? they look away because it is sanctioned. ok. but then the navies should come to the pve players aid... otherwise it is like missioning in lowsec... the real problem is that 1. pve and pvp fits differ, 2. pocket aggro stays on the pve playeri would extend this allowance to pvp even to non-fw players shooting the opposing faction, meaning a pilot running a gallente mission to kill caldari would have an aggro timer against caldari fw pilots.check the moderated 10000 papercuts evelopedia page!"
"meaning what? noob in regards to what?oh, how about you just refrain from posting if you do not make an objective contribution to the topic?check the moderated 10000 papercuts evelopedia page!"
"if only we could biomass your posting."
"i just hadn't realised we had reach the point in the forum cycle where this one pops up again.ccp isn't going to institute an idea that costs people game time no matter how much others may not like their play style or how \"real world\" it may actually be, it would be like asking a drowning man to stop trying to keep his head above water."
"exactly. even locking the pod 15min is out of question. but other things could be implemented as posted above.check the moderated 10000 papercuts evelopedia page!"
"holy god where did this thread come from? i thought for sure it was dead never to return. well...it's obvious this idea would never actually be implemented. it is a bit harsh to be locking people out of playing the game as a consequence of playing the game. it was in part a jab at piracy while at the same time i was trying to stir up some debate on piracy and its consequences. either way i will be the first to admit that this is was a really poor idea..."
"how about you bother reading before you post in a thread that obviously has been rejected or shot down before you look like a total noob poster. it's called common sense. i'm sure your familiar with the concept.time stamps for the win!================ stop the evemail spam!"
"in all fairness though this technically isn't a necro post. it was only dead for about 11 days. i call necro posting anything longer than a month being as some people may actually go on vacation and not look a the forums for a while. it was however a dead issue. **** poor idea on my part and should have remained buried."
"not a possible solution as you 'pay' for your subscription.ccp's job is to keep the maximum amount of players in the game at all times.kicking people out of the game is not ccp's job, unless you want to fly around the universe alone."
"hell yes. suicidegank characters with automatic sec standing reset for the win !"
"yea was more of a past tense - the new changes to sc's are great and yes - marks them as not being invincible.didnt take it as a troll :)i just think the ability is there to make the standard carriers slightly more versatile without overpowering them.5 bs's will still be able to kill a carrier like it is today - but a bit more dps out of a carrier will make them think twice about engaging.sure a carrier being on its own is its own risk, and 25 drones form 5 bs's will still be dangerous vs fighterbombers."
"the carrier only has 2 purposes in life.transport and triage (logistics)it is not a dps boat.the fighters are pruely for defense....always been the case.your asking to add a 3rd role...while great...the ship just isn't meant for that.the point of the changes is to make sub-caps viable again.if you want to focus on attack ability...a dreadnaught would be appropriate....even if its designed to shoot pos's and other caps.ps: fighters....not fighter bombers...giving fb's to a carrier would be a massive game changer.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"fair comment - and i can see your point so wont dwell on it :)however this takes me to my 2nd point which as initially mentioned is in my books was the more important of the 2.ship model scale for carriers.no harm in making their model scale larger? a 50% increase in model scale would be sufficent in my books. if you can fit unpackaged bs's in its hanger its scale should reflect this.in direct comparison a machariel has a volume of just under 600,000m3 but a carrier is 11,250,000m3 ?problem physics?"
"that has been a frequent comment brought up not just for carrieres but for all ships.but thats an argument/dsicussion for an another thread/day.ps: admitidly i'd love to see a carrier fill other roles but the math just doesn't line up to use the experssion. but i'm content to also grab dreadnaught on the way to carrier anyway....they are both compartively the same cost and fill their roles equally just as well...but with tier 3 bc's on the horrizon...i'm forced to hold my judgement for later.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"so you're saying that fighter bombers will increase carrier dps against battleships.don't you think you should understand how something works before making a post in assembly hall about how it should be changed?"
"why are we trying to revamp something that has already been revamped and just hasn't been released yet? why don't we wait and see what happens with the current revamp?"
"this is a a big problem to be honest. having your targets around the edge of the screen, double with windows over the top is a bit problematic. would be nice to see as said a new hud thats central around your ship that is based on the overview. i looked at the galaxy one and thats seems ideal, obviously dont do a blantant rip off lol (make it better!) i too am surprised this has never been looked at where pvp is the name of the game."
"too many times a war dec is created against a corp, and the actual target(s) jump to a different corp that is not war dec'd.i propose that once a war dec is active (after the 24 hours), either:1) nobody can leave the corp till the war is overor2) you cannot leave the corp for a cooldown period of something like 7-14 days.people can join the corp as much as they want. but you just cant 'take apart a corp\" this week, and re-assemble it next week.without a change like this, someone can always hide from any war dec anytime. if someone never wants to get war dec'd then they should join an npc corp.m."
"quoting myself from similar threads."
"1: stupid...very stupid. how the hell can you purge a \"spai\" inserted prior to wardec declaration.... many have proposed extending war dec period beyond that... which would be the only way i'd allow this suggestion to fly. otherwise count it burned,trashed,crushed.2: again....while its good intended...ceo's should have the right to fire anyone who is a \"spai\" in their midst during a war dec.infilitration is a valid and legiitmate business.... this would give them a great deal of power... i'm sure youll get tons of support for it. but common sense says..nay..scerams...no.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i never thought of it from a \"spy\" point of view. you are correct, the above idea would not work in that case.m."
"however.extend the duration of said member's war dec period and its not such a bad idea.but its got a flaw in its root form. and even tehn....not many people like the possible exception even then.sorry if i sounded gruff.... i see these proposals all the time.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"how about if u leave a corp during a war u can only join npc corp for 1-2 weeks. bears can bail but will have to put up with npc tax."
"if you honestly think npc tax is as evil as you imply it to be....you have alot to learn about \"carebearing\"================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i think drake draconis is right.... there is no fix ( i can think of right now ) because the fix causes more problems.and... if a fix causes a new problem... its not a fix, and why add more bugs or problems into the game.i agree with you drake.cheers'thanks for your input."
"war dec is like an elaborate chinese puzzel.all camps have valid points....but every solution they come up with...always tilts the balance agianst the oposition.it is a ncessary evil....and this is why i don't really propose anything to attempt to conqure.the only concern i have is the ease of renewing war-decs or continually issuing them every time one ends.but that's not really a major issue as it doesn't happen as often as i thought it would/have.oh and your welcome...again..sorry for gruffness. its a habbit of a troll x)================ stop the evemail spam!"
"even if you leave a wardec'ed corp you shoudl retain the war target status and be attackable.less corp jumping but corp can purge spies."
"honestly...i don't have any misgivings over that particular point.would solve some of the evasion problems.even with corps jumping from alliances to evade war-decs.but balance mechanics would have to be carefully wheighed as i'm sure someone will bring up a valid counter-point short of whining about \"fairness\".================ stop the evemail spam!"
"anything that locks individuals into a wardec will lead to them leaving game. its also incredibly ripe for griefing, which is exactly why they don't allow it now. the most likely outcome of these changes is obvious: people will just not join a corp. there is no real advantage to corps as it is, with the exception of pos anchoring. get it through your heads. the people who don't want to fight aren't going to. nothing you do or say is going to change that. if they're backed into a corner, they're going to quit the game. any change is going to have deal with that fundamental reality."
"i'd suggest that, in a revision to the system, implement a cooldown time on how long it takes before someone's allowed back into a given corp after leaving it. a week ought to cure the abuses on that end, i think, since that's also the standard dec timer. of course, the pos-type stuff is corp assets, not personal. you can all bail on the corp to save yourselves, but in doing so, you abandon your corp resources to your enemies. given that it's those resources that they're after...the corp/alliance thing is a separate issue entirely, but one more easily fixed. if a corp with an active wardec associated with it joins an alliance, then sure, the alliance is part of the dec... but it's still tied to the corp, not the alliance. if the corp drops alliance right after, then the dec's still tied to them, instead of being left with the alliance. between that, and sorting out a few of the billing timing issues on mutual/non-mutual wardecs, that'll be the end of decshields, and good riddance."
"that would be a valid coutnerpoint i was referring to.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"do pos in wh get raided by sleepers? i think they would really try to claim back their occupied space... eve is about options... and we need many more... but give them possibly irrational / high prices, so it is up to the players to decide what to do...check the moderated 10000 papercuts evelopedia page!"
"why, oh why, did you necro this horribad thread?"
"honestly...she necro'd a lot of horrible threads...including a couple of my own...lol"
"this is awesome.. i completely missed this gem of a thread.."
"hence why i call noob on said person.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"not empty quoting my alt."
"even though i might not approve with the initial post's ideas, imho usually some part has merit. i do think my posts introduce rather balanced new aspects or alternatives to the original idea. would it be better to start a new thread for it instead of replying?!from you i would expect constructive criticism of my ideas if you feel disturbed me reviving a sooo old thread. but of course i dont know, being a noob, you know check the moderated 10000 papercuts evelopedia page!"
"ankhesentapemkah!?"
"that brought chills to my spine.....why'd you have to dig that up?curse you!!!! *funny tho!*@\"noob poster\" - necro'ing threads is bad mkay? (honestly you still havn't figuredi t out yet?)so is repeating bad ideas...even the op admidts it.and i have to give him props for that.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"okay....they going to put an npc station in every one?"
"+1. we need incentives for anti-pirating activities. one solution would be similar to suggestions made on changes to bounty hunting: you can only pay out, what gets destroyed.check the moderated 10000 papercuts evelopedia page!"
"+1this would also stop acts of sabotage. eg if two members have a falling out one could cancel the others jobs. or stop spies from cancelling corporate jobs."
"indeed. pve needs to get dynamic and pve needs also to come to the players, not always vice versa. why dont npc blockade a station or come in considerable numbers to a gate making you consider using it? this would affect your game play big time and depending on your standings they would interact differently. and this would allow pve and pvp to blend. how does everyone behave when also players' enemies warp into the fight? give standings meaning ...check the moderated 10000 papercuts evelopedia page!"
"making available bookmarks in the current system selectable via filter option (overview settings) seems like a good idea.i would also like to see custom ordering of icon column and selectable ordering of a 2nd search column.check the moderated 10000 papercuts evelopedia page!"
"no, keep them hidden, but give us an option to get intel on them (e.g. by paying with your own npc corp standing \"calling in a favor\"), show results within some accuracy. why? standings should get more meaning (and also decay over time back to average high/low values). e.g. killing someone with extreme standings should affect your own standings. killing someone having -9 with caldari should improve your own caldari standing. 1 more way to blend pve and pvp. less pve grinding but choose a pvp target wisely to work up your standings... just 1 idea... check the moderated 10000 papercuts evelopedia page!"
"bumbcheck the moderated 10000 papercuts evelopedia page!"
"option 2 please.+1"
"+1 ftdh is awesome"
"i am generally happy with the current gm's, though perhaps if enough people re-sub, we can get some additional ones :) qolde"
"it's a plan certainly but i know many 30+ year olds that are worse than 12 year olds when it comes to 'posting' (use the term loosely here...more like trolling)."
"lo seriously add every effect u can just have levels and options to disable this way those people that spend what 50$ for some ram and say 100 can still enjoy sexy eve and those who prefer or run pc,s from the 90s are also happy"
"eve graphics already look like something from the 90s compared to real games like battlefield 3."
"kids these days, it's always about graphics, even though graphics don't really matter."
"you are mixing up two different things:- one is the graphics processing load (and the effort to optimize it)- the other is minimum graphics card feature set, which you upped, because a) you didn't want to maintain multiple code paths, and b) you had to introduce incarna (which still runs craptastically on the minimum required hardware).indeed, for pure gameplay purposes graphics could be reduced to 4 poly wireframe models without losing anything. in fact, in large battles all you see already is only colored squares, bubbles and maybe caps."
"excellent post quoted for excellence. one thing i would like from a performance stand point is a greater granularity of performance options. a greater degree of tweaking would be very nice in places. the jotunn risi are now recruiting, brutor ancestry required in order to best represent the brutor interest. join channel joris to learn more!"
"anecdotal reports from sisi imply that cruicble will run better than the current tranquility build, though i'm not sure why it would at the moment. probably a techy blog full of graphs will explain it."
"for consistency, the field cs would then have to be invented using the tier 2 bc bpcs. i somewhat approve of this.but tbh, the biggest problem with cs is that they've become overshadowed by t3's (displacing fleet cs) and tier 2 bcs (displacing field cs)."
"supported. without introducing any significant change to mechanics, this proposal adds a little colour to the game."
"it's all very well saying you want aoe in all space but what about aggro and concord?how long do you think before there's a threadnaught because someone ganked a noob and his aoe at a station undock knocked him to -10 one day into the game? no more eve for him with that toon.i am all for aoe but only on supers. this will limit the mayhem that will ensue in hi sec.so it would only affect orca's, freighters, jump freighters, rorqual's, carriers, dread, super carriers and titans.you will still see big bangs in hi sec, just not from every ship that gets popped.good thing for the orca's, freighters and jump freighters, as they have zero combat capability, the aggro from aoe should be given to the killers instead of the pilot if they catch some 'innocent' bystanders with aoe."
"aoe only on supers? absolutely not. that would make no sense at all. we have already specified that we can limit aoe on stations and gates to address your concern specifically."
"yes you can 'limit' it, but you cannot totally remove it.and where is my concern addressed in this thread? your original idea didn't make any sense at all and i doubt anyone would support it.if there's any chance of innocent gankee's getting a sec hit for being popped then i wouldn't support aoe at all. after all, that's a double hit for them....losing a ship and a sec hit.in case you missed what i originally wrote...."
"i hate quoting myself..."
"i'll quote jack on this one...."
"again...with the proper restrictions around gates and stations there is no reason why aoe damage from exploding ships can't work in highsec. limiting ship explosion damage to not work within 250km of a gate or station resolves this issue. if you want a reason to how that works with the lore you can say that gates and stations have technology that dampens explosions so they have no effect. as for limiting to capitals...this makes no sense. you are claiming that only capitals have the mass to do any damage? i don't agree...all ships have warp drives and power cores...these are what cause the explosion when they go critical."
"think we'll just have to agree to disagree on this one dude."
"nah, rubbish idea."
"god damn whoever mentioned this in cq"
"tl;drwe were all noobs once. cut the little guy some slack when you gank him."
"\"toon\"most \"old schoolers\" as you put it, have no issue with the n00bs. the problem lies in the n00b's attitude.as for my self, i have no issues having a rifter hero in the ranks. actually, i will take a rifter hero who can barely fit a point with a decent attitude, over some ****** with a character bazzar cap pilot waving around some sort of emo raging entitlement."
"eager rifter newbies are awesome, especially when they gush about how they tackled that guy. it's so kawaii."
"assembly hall is for proposals. this is not a proposal."
"people in highsec are as about rich as those in nullsec or richer. if you ignore the many trial accounts and noobs.level 4s are not bad for income, and add to that many run them in billion isk faction fitted ships for max speed.add incursions, market and research, factory pi..... highsec is the hub of money and goods.each has advantages and disadvantages, but highsec is not a ghetto. if you don't know how to make isk, that makes you a noob but that doesn't mean a lack of opportunity exist for skilled players in highsec.moons, do basically print a bunch of gold, but they are alliance assets by default and all of the isk made is used by ship replacement programs and sov holding, so it is more of a break even for alliances that does not make much of any alliance members richer.the lack of knowledge about the situation of the topic starter, makes me question if these assumptions and 'ideas' have the feintist merit."
"the problem is, that behind some of them are spies from enemy alliances who want to get insider information and/or directly attack our people. and the only effective method to prevent it that has been found so far, is to sacrifice the eager nobodies for the sake of integrity of our alliance."
"i never took it as gruffness... a 'fair' conversation is all i was looking for."
"1) move to null2) shoot ppl3) profit"
"this is where we should start looking before trying to force people into actions they just don't want to take.i think the main problem for hi sec wars and the reason why so many will not fight is there's just no gain and no point.why fight when you stand to losing ships and gain nothing in return?people in hi sec aren't there for the 'good fights' except the griefers and they really should go to low/null if they want good fights."
"is this what lead to the thing with dhd and thunder? will admit, kinda why i read this thread. read the other one about that and was curious about what happened.also the way the new motd is worded, it looks like it'll just be another 'dec shield' senario - too difficult to enforce, so it got allowed"
"oh that's low, bro.but it made me giggle like a little girl so carry on."
"there must never be a place in eve where you cant be killed. ever. if that ever came to be, you would have massively overcrowded space anyway in those systems."
"so basically if you want to remove all pos's from w-space that would instantly destroy most of the large wh corps, except rnk, stop trying to force w-space to just be another part of k-space.and also have you any idea of the logistical nightmare corps like ccres, aharm and all the others face? believe w-space is hard enough"
"well if you think about it the command ships are the awax of eve, being able to give bonuses across the fleet in system is reasonable so long as that ship is in space. like any other command and control unit it should not need to be on a particular grid to be effective.if your angry that its out there doing its thing scan it down and kill itotherwise don't get annoyed cause someone else has the good sense to keep these potent tools out of your gun sights. that just means your tactics need to include scouts to hunt and and scan these ships downso they can be killed. that means you have to actually develop a strategy and not just fly in guns blazing.tactics out do fire power in the real world too, figure it out don't ask god to change the rulesthat being said i do agree that a ship using these gang units should be much easier to lock down in a scan (on account of its actively transmitting a fleet wide signal to make that bonus) so that way using those module should make it difficult to hide the ship.likewise jamming these ships should interupt the bonus as well since it would sever the gang link communicationso it would give rise to the use of a cloaky ship with probes and ecm to shut this bonus downbut thats just my two cents"
"or: have a 24-hour cool-down before wars become \"mutual\" and another 24-hour cool-down before they become \"non-mutual\"not that i can see any reason anyone would make a war mutual, when they can just let their aggressors waste isk..."
"refer to red vs blue. some people just like to pew pew, and they should totally be allowed to without charging extra fees or whatnot."
"this needs to be back to page 1!"
"ok so this proposal is based solely on the assumption that ccp did not create 4,096 separate ship models to create the tech 3 cruisers but rather created the 80 component models which comprise the variable parts of the tech 3 cruisers.so with that assumption clarified here is my proposal for the possibility of enacting a custom ship creation system into eve in a balanced and functional mannerusing the same technology already present in the game it should be possible for ccp to create a custom ship creation system which would be a revolution in the eve universe.the simple end of it is that they create models in a similar way as they did for the tech 3 cruisers but instead for various size classes, each model set scaled to the size ranges of ships of that class. so<U+FFFD>frigates 25-95 meter long axiscorvettes/destroyer 100-190 meter long axis cruiser 200-345 meter long axisbattle cruiser 350-490 meter long axisbattleship 500-800 meter long axisindustrials 150-1000 meter long axisas i said with my above assumption in mind this should not be too taxing on resources to create let<U+FFFD>s say 15 models for each of the 5 ship sections presented with the tech 3 cruisers as an example for each of the 5 ship size classes. (375 component models which could create a possible 759,375 different ship models per ship size class so 4,796,875 unique ship models for those keeping count)so now for the stats and development pricing.so let<U+FFFD>s take the worst starting stats in each class for example below is an example baseline for designing a frigate class shipstructure hp 188cargo capacity 120drone capacity 0drone bandwidth 0mass 997volume 10000inertia modifier 4.46hull em resistance 0hull explosive resistance 0hull kinetic resistance 0hull thermal resistance 0armor hp 188armor em resist 50armor explosive resist 10armor kinetic resist 25armor thermal resist 35shield hp 118shield recharge time 625shield em resist 0shield explosive resist 50shield kinetic resist 40shield thermal resist 20capacitor capacity 125capacitor recharge time 281.25maximum targeting range 17.5max locked targets 3scan resolution 400sensor type 0sensor strength 4signature radius 50max velocity 268ship warp speed 6cpu 100powergrid 15calibration 400low slots 1mid slots 1high slots 2turrent hardpoints 0launcher hardpoints 0upgrade hardpoints 3from these stat points you would use a point system to design the ships stats and then make the development and construction costs go up with the amount of points spent upgrading the stats and purchasing skill bonus elementsthe cost of developing the blueprint and the bill of materials to manufacture one increase the more points you put into designing. this means that yes you absolutely could design a monstrous frigate, but the bpo alone would cost you 1,000,000,000 isk and each ship would take a large measure of minerals to produce.ok so here is the math as i figure itbase pricesfrigate (1,000,000 isk)corvette/destroyer (5,000,000 isk)cruiser (10,000,000 isk)battle cruiser (20,000,000 isk)battleship (40,000,000 isk)base price * (upgrade points + (1+#or runs))treat a full bpo as 99 for the number of runs and the max upgrade points as 900.the bill of materials likewise increases as followsperfect material value * (upgrade points/10) for each individual component.so if you designed and built a frigate with max 900 upgrade points you would pay 1,000,000,000 isk to create the blueprint, and 90 times the materials and time per unit to construct.let me know what you think"
"interesting idea... though the wall of maths doesn't add much to the proposal.but yeah, i can totally support the idea of a tech 3 revolution, where instead of having a limited array of specific ship hulls that you slot subsystems into, you get a starship design system, where you add components off a series of menus to create a ship concept that you can then independently research and produce.specifically, i'd suggest that the original design process require a lot of high-end research skills, and instead of producing a bpo, it produces a 'prototype specifications' document, at some arbitrarily huge cost. that document can then be researched to produce bpos, which you can then sell or keep as you choose. that would put the whole process of ship design > research > production > distribution in player hands... though at the same time, the whole process should be a huge isk sink from top to bottom. the game can stand largish isk sinks at this point... and making a high barrier to entry will encourage people to buy into already existing ship designs, rather then everyone going ahead to make their own."
"yeah the math is important thoughi like that term \"prototype specification document\"(psd) can i use that? would be really cool.i am not a big fan of blanket menu selecting and arbitrary high expense. a point system allows for truely unique innovation in ships, yet also allows people to be cost minded. that way you have to balance to cost to develop and produce against the benefit of stats for that ship.so give people the rope to financially hang themselves with.like if you max out a frigate design and spend over a billion isk to develop it and it costs so much in materials that in order to break even you have to sell each frigate for over 200 million isk each.but that is in line with the way of eve in general."
"the math is important... eventually. at the proposal stage, it's only important where it helps you illustrate your proposal, and in this case... it doesn't actually do that very well. yes, you can use \"prototype specification document\", if you like.but to address the main point; capsuleers have a lot of money. like, seriously, huge piles. and bpos are expensive. you can expect to pay over a billion isk for a researched battleship bpo, and you will pay even more just getting an unresearched mining barge or capital blueprint off the npcs. hell, there's a vast host of capital part blueprints, which are individually over a billion isk each, unresearched.i envision that, under the new system, there will be piles of ship part blueprints scattered across space, and the best will only be available in terribly inconvenient places like pirate faction lp stores. not sure whether or not to make subcomponent bpos available at all; if any sort of psd design requires a steady flow of lp-fueled purchases, then that will both sink isk and drive more people into missioning in weird places.accordingly, as the psd designer, you have options. you can pick exclusively low-end, easily fabricated parts, acquire the relevant component blueprints from the lp stores of assorted hisec corporations after doing a couple missions, and go to town, producing ships with little more then minerals. to design your 'cheap' ship, you'll pay little more then the base cost of 1 billion (assuming a frigate psd), and can then spit out bpos for distribution or resale, as you like. people will want what you're selling, since even a fairly unimpressive psd-pattern ship will be better then a t1 hull.you could, instead, pick mid-range components, which require more then just mere minerals to produce (read: expensive bits from exploration or wormholes or something), and whose bpcs are more expensive on the stores. depending on your access to nullsec, you might consider using low-end pirate faction bpcs at around the same price... less material cost, but harder to get at the blueprints.finally, you could pick ntohing but the very best of the high-end components, and make your ships exclusively with the best pirate components from the four corners of space. you'll pay through the nose for both the blueprints and the parts.depending on the choices you made, you'll now be presented with the final list of ship specs, and a cost ranging between 1b isk (for a low-end frigate) to something like 200b isk (for a high-end battleship). this puts the higher-end stuff beyond the range of most individual capsuleers, pushing it further in the direction of psd research being a corporate effort. in any event, you could probably recoup your expenses fairly quickly selling bpos, since anyone with a bpo can do everything the psd holder can... except make more bpos... then anyone who wants to make your ship but didn't have the initial investment to drop can get the same benefits by just grabbing one of the bpos produced once the psd is finished. for that matter, like-minded individuals not part of a corporation might put together some kind of investment program, where they pool funds towards a psd, and grab their bpos as they are produced, in some way agreeable to the investors (or they get scammed by the inventor, either way). alternatively, you might stretch your profit out longer, and make more money long-term, by only selling bpcs... since anyone who wants to fly this shiny new ship you invented needs your blueprints to make it happen.in any event, i've illustrated the chain of production well enough. well trained capsuleer scientist invents a psd with a pile of cash, and turns it into bpos. bpos get properly researched, then distributed according to however the funding organizations can agree, and possibly bpcs get sold. stacks of part bpcs are shipped in, and in combination with the main bpos/bpcs are used to create the ships.ultimately, this either gets you ships that are slightly better then t1 hulls in some ways, or ships that are specialized in an unusual way (say, a frigate with a bonus to both scan probes and salvaging, or a cruiser with a bonus to smartbombs), or an ungodly expensive t3 faction juggernaut that lays waste to everything before it."
"here is my idea on how to give the black ops more love.change the way the black ops covert cyno bridge works.allow these ships to be able to bridge any ship in fleet with them through the covert cyno, excluding capital ships.this makes it so that they have a clearly defined role or bridging the rest of the fleet quietly into a system for rapid deployment of non-cap ships into a system.this opens the door for new strategic uses for the covert cyno and covert cyno bridge which would dramatically increase their value on the battlefield without much of a major overhaul in the ships themselvesbut thats just my two cents"
"declaring war is all but useless and or pointless depending on your perspective. in high sec it is the tool for grief corps(insert merc where needed) to extort their own enjoyment by dominating non-combat characters while still keeping their own indy based characters safe in some other corp to supply them from the shadows. so they evade combat cause to fight is pointless.pirate groups in low sec do not bother with declaring war because they are primarily indiscriminate killers looking to get whatever meat falls into their lap, so a war dec doesn<U+FFFD>t gain them anything and may put non-combat elements of their corp at undue riskfinally null sec alliances operate outside of the reach of concord in the first place so it is utterly pointless for them to pay concord to make a declaration. and again this may risk non-combat elements operating in the blanket security of high sec space.this all conspires to make declaring war an irrelevant act.so here is my take on a revised war system to make war declarations more relevantdeclaring war is basically bribing concord to look the other way for a period of time, so if legal war is based on bribery lets make the whole idea scalable and allow this trend of bribery to be done on the individual, corporate, and alliance levels independentlyindividual war: this is simply the ability to buy <U+FFFD>kill rights<U+FFFD> on a particular individual from concord. just like normal kill rights concord will look the other way in high sec if you attack and kill that person. only now they will look the other way for however many kills you have purchased. but like normal kill rights these false kill rights have an expiration date so get the kill or not they will go away in time and they are only good for the individual who has purchased them. and of course concord will give your target a 24 hour warning for each kill right purchased against them.corporate war: like current war, however this is purely a single corp declaring against a single corp regardless of alliance ties. alliance leaders will be advised of any declaration against a corp in their alliance and have the option to expand the war (for a fee) to include their entire alliance in the war instead of a single corp.alliance war: again this is very much like standard alliance vs. alliance war declarationcross-level declarations: in addition to this, any of the above groups can engage and declare against any other entity. however in the case of targeting an individual the cost is multiplied across all registered members of a corp or alliance.so for example:you could have a corp or an alliance purchase kill rights for all their members against a single pilotyou could have an alliance declare war against a single corp of another alliance (though likely the opposing alliance might upgrade it to a full on alliance war)a single pilot could declare war against an entire corp or even an alliance(though the price would still be the same as if it were a whole corp declaring)or a single corp from an alliance could declare war against an entire alliance."
"here is some additional info for the post*new deployable structure*war defense platform these platforms can be anchored by a corporation or alliance regardless of system sovereignty, and are hard wired to only engage ships which are at war with the corp that deployed them. the guns will also engage any target which has aggression against the corp or alliance which deployed them.platforms concept statsstructure: 7000 hpcargo capacity: 900fuel bay capacity: 6500power grid: 500cpu: 500high slots: 4mid slots: 4low slots: 4launcher slots: 4turret slots: 4capacitor capacity: 6000 gjcapacitor regan: 1250000 secondsarmor hp 8000shield hp 8000scan resolution: 300bonuses/notesreduces cpu cost of all turret or launchers by 90%reduces power grid cost of all turret or launchers by 99%platform consumes 1 unit of heavy water per 10 points of powergrid used per hourplatform consumes 1 unit of liquid ozone per 10 points of cpu in use per hourplatform consumes 1 unit of star base charter per hour the unit is online if anchored in faction controlled space. (does not apply if anchored in null sec space)platforms will self-destruct if left anchored and offline after 24 hoursas you can see these platforms are not as strong or durable as their pos tower counter parts but they can provide a new element of security and tactics in warfare.likewise the fuel costs and cost of setting these platforms up will make them less attractive to grief corps because it<U+FFFD>s a lot of money to spend hoping that your targets are willing to engage. but these platforms can also provide a 24 hour defensive presence to help defend from actions such as station camping.along with that the ability to buy kill rights for individual pilots means that once identified, neutral spy alt<U+FFFD>s can be effectively neutralized from the battlefield as well (though this does not give the ability to attack player pods without repercussion)these changes encourage the relevant use of the war system without providing similar incentive for grief war players."
"i thought this would not only be really funny but would also make sense. gurista/sansha/angel/serpentis should also jail the pod of an offending attacker after they destroy the ship. this pod would be in a stasis period of 48 hours where no game functions such as chat, market, and so on would work. they float in station in a pod and can't do anything except pod themselves to get out. this jail would also play the \"banana phone\" song over and over."
"\"the use of the phrase, <U+FFFD>style over substance<U+FFFD> has always been, as oscar wilde observed, a marvellous and instant indicator of a fool. for those who perceive a separation between the two have either not lived, thought, read or experienced the world with any degree of insight, imagination or connective intelligence. it may have been leclerc buffon who first said <U+FFFD>le style c<U+FFFD>est l<U+FFFD>homme <U+FFFD> the style is the man<U+FFFD> but it is an observation that anyone with sense had understood centuries before. only dullards crippled into cretinism by a fear of being thought pretentious could be so dumb as to believe that there is a distinction between design and use, between form and function, between style and substance.\" - stephen fry"
"given the use and capability of cs's right now i think that a reworking of the hulls and the bonuses are in order. right now the only cs that i know of being used on grid as a command ship is the absolution, everything else seems to take a back seat or is covered by tier ii bc's and t3's.+1mmos come and go, but eve remains. -garresh-"
"wouldn't the myrm be better for the eos? since the eos is a droneboat and the astarte has more hardpoints than the myrm model?"
"and the others:nighthawksleipnir"
"no way. no thanks.will somebody think of the drones?"
"drones don't matter...they are easily replaced. and besides...it has already been made very clear that with the way this would work...drones would take little to no damage."
"trading/sharing more than 5 bookmarks is annoying. so have bookmark channels like the chat channels we have now with passwords/invites but have them add a tab to people and places with all bookmarks there."
"fleet/evemail bms would work too, but i agree something needs to be done about the state of bm sharing."
"i know there are a number of people complaining about the removal of the side effects for boosters. for my position on this, i believe there should still be side effects involved, but not the kind that changes your stats.tell me, when you hear about illicit drugs, what kind of side effects do you normally think of? visual or mental side effects, correct? not the kind that effects your guns rate of fire or signature radius or whatever system they seem to effect.so, i was thinking why not include visual or mental side effects with boosters?for example:let's say you take a booster that gives you an increased speed. in the middle of the fire fight you noticed that your whole screen appear to be blurred a bit or the red aggression flash appears to move out of place every few seconds and then returns back to normal. or what about the increased tank from a booster? you might notice that you activated the wrong module or two when you didn't want to. it's like flying under the influence and you start seeing some strange things that are not there. perhaps there never was an opponent in the first place and that you were shooting ghosts and your fc is screaming at you wanting to know what the hell you were doing? xd"
"basically, it acts like a smartbomb but destroys your ship in the process. the damage and range that the smartbomb has depends on the size of the ship destroyed. for example, a frigate self destructing will do 1,500 damage over 10km, while a battleship will do 10k over 50km. will be allowed in empire, which should making ganking alot simpler, but also add an interesting twist to pvp battles. to balance it, caldari ships (which are shield tanked) will not be allowed to activate it past 50% shield, and the rest (which are usually armour tanked) will not be able to activate it past 50% armour. so let me know what you think of it."
"why would you even suggest this?!this would be akin to why they took mines out of the game.imagine we put this idea in the game.i would give it less then 10 seconds from implimenting before jita and other hub stations would be subject to mass suicide self destructing smart bombsi think you should consider how your idea can be abused before submitting it in the future"
"they took mines out of the game!?"
"supported."
"this change would be good for solo play and bad for fleet/carebear play. let's look at some extreme examples.example 1 (solo):i'm in a hac. my opponent is in a hac. they've got a ganglink t3 in a pos in system, i don't. they are going to win 9 times out of 10. my only real option is to try to escape.this is bad. there's very little i can do skill wise to compete with the benefits of a ganglink. they're at no risk. particularly when we look at the diminutive returns of modules. let's take reppers, on a reference fit sacrilege.medium armor repairer ii, no ganglink: 318.corpum c-type medium armor repairer, no ganglink: 393.medium armor repairer ii, level 5 legion ganglink: 425.a t2 with a legion ganglink is better than a corpum c-type. these reppers cost almost the same as the legion does. each. a sacrilege would need two, to be almost level.in this situation, it was actually fairer when it was possible to make them totally unprobable. i could jump my own t3 in, warp to a safe, and not look at that screen for the next 5 or 10 minutes. still unfair everyone needs multiple accounts to compete, though.let's look at a counter example, though.example 2, fleet battle if ganglinks were grid only:a large subcap fleet jumps into a system to take down some caps/supercaps. the defending fleet has triage carriers set up; they can keep their command ship alive. the subcap fleet, however, do not have triage set up. their command ship will likely get primaried and popped. this puts the defending fleet at an unfair advantage.so:what if the range of gang links was directly affected by how many people are in the fleet? i think it's wrong for a single person to be able to have one toon sitting in a safe/pos and another performing pvp and what if the range calculation, based on how many fleet members were in system at the time, scaled to such a way that 2/3 in fleet, = on grid, 4-10, within a couple of au, 10+, slowly increasing to the entire range of the system. this makes sense, and would do the opposite of \"dumbing down\" play: it would require boosters to position themselves properly to be able to assist everyone at critical points. whilst this looks like a solo nerf and a group buff, it really isnt'. let's be honest, unless my target is a frigate, if the opponent has 20 friends in system, i'm going to lose anyway. in example 1, i try to burn to the booster and if i can make it, maybe i take out a nice t3. in example 2, the subcap fleet is big enough that their booster can be anywhere. this seems pretty fair to me. in addition, it would also mean that stupid/careless pilots who stray outside of the range of their fleet booster (ie they warp to a gate 200au away) can still be picked off, for their stupidity. this solution: works for solo/small gang, unless you're solo(ish) fighting a huge fleet (not going to work unless you're garmon anyway :p) works for fleet vs fleet punishes stupidity"
"one other thing: i think it should be possible to look at a ship and see if it's receiving bonuses. some kind of effect etc.just in the same way you can look at a target and work out what guns they have (if you practice) and whether they're shield or armor tanked, you should be able to see that they have a fleet booster, and you should probably be able to differentiate the 8 types somehow. (4 races x 2 (ganglink / leadership skills only))."
"i have to say i dissagree.my main reason for this is that even with smaller gangs of say 10-15 people there are many times where you might want scouts or a few tackle to be positioned across multiple gates in a system.with midsize and larger gangs this 'nerf' would becomme more pronounced.loosing vital gangboosts for ships offgrid is an idea i dont like."
"+1 to opmakes no sense that you can boost from 100% safety. you're gang should be assembled in order to receive gang bonuses.i'd be totally satisfied if it was completely axed, but a variation (and more dev work) to this could be that off-grid boosting is"
"i think that would be an excellent compromise. maybe make one of the skills increase the effectiveness of gang links accross distances to allow it to get above 20% but not too much higher. i think the incentive should be to get the pilot to have a reason to be on grid and in the battle with bonuses instead of just being 100% immune and safe while contributing to the fight."
"personally i don't see the reason to have him be 100% safe and contributing to the fight at all. i just don't think its a good idea to force people to multibox alts. it makes the game less fun. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"great idea.to people complaining about losing single unbuffered booster sp.. you don't have to fit full rack of links.fit a link + buffer. you like another booster ? fine, bring second bc."
"absolutely agree... warp graphics need to be more interesting. whenever i introduce people to the game i often get comments about how boring travel seems. even simply adding to the current speed up/ slow down warp tunnel would be welcome by most. i think little effects such as a static storm that builds around the ship until it reaches full speed, more chaotic/colorful warp tunnels or perhaps short-lived particle trails left behind when reaching a destination are possible improvements. i'm sure someone can think of much better effects as well!"
"if my calculations are correct, and this baby hits 75% of its maximum speed - we will see some serious ****."
"this was brought up in another thread and i thought i would post it here in the off chance it might get fixed.seems like it would be pretty trivial to fix this issue and make amarr drones actually worthwhile."
"i'd support this, but i quite enjoy killing things with my overpowered warrior ii's, and thus i must oppose it instead. *dodges nerfbat*"
"there are drones other than warrior 2's?hmmm learn something everyday."
"yes, that's messed up and my domi loves it."
"signing thread."
"+1 on the idea presented by the op and vile rat.reworking the bounty system in this manner would encourage \"roams\" looking for wanted individuals.i agree that complicating this idea with proposed changes to kill-rights might have a negative effect on the "
"i have always thought with invention and everything else in manufacturing, there should be some way to produce a 'prototype' ship with better stats or whatever.it would need to be stupidly expensive and have a low probability of success but if you have enough isk and patience then you should be able to research a monster ship.however, this is just a thought. allow this and you will have every major null sec alliance producing these ships every other day and would eventually ruin eve for everyone else.do you really want 1 player having a ship with stats that rivals concord never mind a whole fleet of them?"
"personally? yes, i do expect alliances to want fleets of monster ships. that said, the devil is in the logistics. as envisioned, it's npc null that'll be the source of the really awesome pirate parts. to get them, you need to run missions there. that sharply limits the available supply. that has a profound effect on the price. i fully expect these changes to make npc null especially dangerous, as everyone will want in on the action, and everyone will want to murder everyone else who got in ahead of them. the individual capsuleers who will inevitably wind up in the most awesome and dangerous ships will be the ones who run mission ops... in gangs, of course, for protection against anyone else present in that part of space intending the same thing.as presented, the only alliances that'll be in a position to field fleets of awesome ships are those that base out of or otherwise have a degree of control over a given faction of npc null... or those willing to expend ungodly sums of money importing the high-end stuff from jita. and even at the high end, these are still, ultimately, ships that can be destroyed... and even if they are better then most, when the high-end stuff dies, that is a notable isk loss. you don't usually see alliances fielding fleets of faction battleships, because that involves a notable loss of isk. what makes you think anyone will want to field fleets of t3 faction battleships, given even greater pricing constraints?oh, there will certainly be individual niche roles that demand the cost. off the top of my head, i can see alliances shelling out bigtime for command battleships to sit their fcs in. battleships geared for logistics and ewar roles will also be valuable, since a battleship-grade tank will give survivability to the otherwise vulnerable vessels. but the bulk of the fleets will wind up being either standard t1 battlecruisers / battleships, or (depending on how logistically feasible it winds up being) cheap-grade t3 player redesigns optimized to support the fotm doctrine, made up of bottom-tier cheap parts imported from jita by the jump freighter-load."
"this sounds suspiciously familiar......"
"again !?! an identical thread was only started about three days ago.ccp is not going to restrict a players game time for anything that does not break the eula no matter how much it annoys another player or how \"real world\" other players think this game (which involves ftl travel and body hopping from clone to clone) should be. to do so would be to drive subs away from the game.now can we move on to more important things please."
"trolled, lolread the actual post, the other one was a stupid carebear plea for help(i assume getting killed alot is help) and this is a troll mocking them. sheesh, learn to spot a troll before posting on these forums"
"it's been a long day, ho hum."
"bah, i just saw your corp.you blasphemous name, you!"
"this is an absolutely horrible idea and the op should be drawn and quartered for even thinking of this."
"great idea !it also opens new possibilities for social skills:suggestive talk5% lower probability of beeing jailed by npc factions. warp core hacking15% lower probability of beeing poded by npc factions"
"i would actually ask ccp to upgrade textures on capitals, they are prettey bad (bigger ships need bigger textures) i can see faults even on bs textures, capitals just look bad. as for stopping upgrades, you see, they probably have an art department, and it's not like you can get a cgi specialist to do a network engineer's job. so even though i recognize that i am probably more fortunate than some, they might as well do something useful as opposed to nothing."
"no they have not. 0.0 fleet warfare still depends heavily on fleet commands for links, since those ships can actually fit tanks unlike three-link t3s. field commands have t2 resists and dual bonuses, so they are not overshadowed by tier 2 bcs by a long shot. \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"how about this:command ships remain as they are.instead we change tier2 battlecruisers so that they aren't op anymore:- harbinger gets one turret, one one hi-slot and one low-slot removed; cpu and grid are reduced accordingly; dronebay is now 25m3- drake loses one launcher, one hi-slot and one medium slot; cpu and grid are reduced accordingly; shield resistance bonus is swapped for something more appropriate- myrmydon loses one low-slot; cpu and grid are reduced accordingly- hurricane loses one high- and one low-slot; cpu and grid are reduced accordingly; dronebay is now 15m3\"being supporters of free speech and free and open [csm] elections... we removed fon revedhort from eligibility\". ccp, april 2013."
"ermm... good idea but can i haz the sleip the way it is."
"as a temporary boost to personal repair modules and solo/small gang warfare, i suggest the following change. when fitting any personal repair module, it will also add 75% (this number of course is subject to balancing factors) of the ships base sensor strength to the ship. this is of course refering to ladar, gravametric sensor strength, not to be confused with a sensor booster.so for example i am running around low sec in my deimos looking for some pew. i fit a medium armor repair module. now my sensor strength is 26 instead of 15. or say i want to be in my super leet triple armor repair myrmidon. my new sensor strength is 59! have fun jamming that. also when you overload the personal repair module, the overload bonus to repair amount also affects the sensor strength bonus.now for those who decide they want to fit a small shield booster on their thanatos so they double their sensor strength, is really no different than fitting a dedicated eccm module which would be better, so their loss.if for some reason a percentage amount would prove to be broken in some cases, then a flat amount added to the sensor strength would work best. either way, the concept is the same. and for those worried about role play reasons and lore and such, honestly i don't care about that. there are hundreds of things in this game that directly contradict each other so what is one more. if for some reason ecm or all ew is redone and this addition to local repair modules no longer fits, simply remove this change from them. it is not difficult."
"at the first glance it looks weird, but hey, the idea itself is pretty good actually :) i'm not sure whether 75% isn't a bit too much, but still in general:/supported\"being supporters of free speech and free and open [csm] elections... we removed fon revedhort from eligibility\". ccp, april 2013."
"viva la active tank!"
"ok...im keeping my mind open on this one...why exactly would this bonus be part of an active local rep? why would this not be left to sensor boosters? am i missing something?"
"the personal repair module is the only unique module that you will not find in any other pvp scenerio outside of solo and small scale fleets. so it only seemed natural to give these type of modules the secondary effect of a built in eccm."
"so add the repper to my hurricane and fit more tank because i can drop one or more sensorbooster?awesome."
"so, wait... because fleets prefer to use remote rep to local rep for most purposes, add a completely unrelated bonus to local repping? what?yeah, not supported. eccm needs to be revamped in general, yes. this is not the way to do that; i'd support a unification of sensor boosters and eccm before this. if local rep proves to be underpowered for whatever reason, then it can be buffed in some way that fits it's flavor."
"i can pull information on buy/sell orders from 10jumps away, place buy/sell orders, set up contracts, contact agents to complete missions...but i can't transmit a simple 3d coordinate in space along with a system name.yeah, that's realistic ccp."
"amusing ideas. i approve; minor visual side-effects to booster use would not at all be out of place."
"i would rather worry about making boosters useless.last time i was on sisi booster bonuses were cut to 50% or something like that.basically that means you do not get bonuses you used to get and that means you do not get a bonus which would actually make any difference.simple example:currently with max heavy missile skills and tengu you can drive dramiel away eventually in few minutes unless it's running local repper if you consume at least standard crash booster which gives you 20% bonus which makes you hit well enough, assuming it's not using halos, xtinct and deadspace afterburner. if it's cut down to half 10% you probably can't since it's not enough anymore. i would rather take penalty for using booster instead of having bonus which doesn't help me.just my 2 cents."
"industry & science jobs on auto-repeatproblem:at the moment, setting up manufacturing and science jobs takes many clicks, arguably too many. more importantly, the process of setting up a job has to be repeated for every single job. typically, producing tech 2 modules from 10 manufacturing (taking a 50% success rate on invention and a 12 hour manufacturing time), will require setting up 20 jobs of manufacturing and 40 jobs of invention - every single day. this is not an interesting or appealing feature of manufacturing.solution:the jobs that are set-up could automatically cycle until the required materials run out or if the players sets a number of runs or if the job is cancelled.additionally, jobs could be saved and easily turned on/off with a simple click.consequences:-this would remove the major hassle with manufacturing-manufacturing would become much easier to use 24/7-this could clog-up stations slots (and force people to move to less populated region)-the number of goods on the market would likely go up-the price of manufacturing goods would likely droppersonal comments:this will remove one of the 'challenge' of manufacturing, but i can say as a manufacturer, that i would prefer if this 'challenge' was gone as it adds nothing to my game experience. for me, the fun and true challenge of manufacturing is finding an item that can be produced with a profit, setting up buy orders, playing the market to get materials, making sure the production facility is constantly supplied with materials and then finding a good market to sell the goods. i've tried getting some feedback on this idea, but i can't seem to find many other full time manufacturers out there - and i can understand why."
"nothing wrong with necroing threads...have a cookie!..."
"as someone training an alt for for an archon...no -- this will just end in tears for everyone involved."
"bump time"
"just because you are accustomed to the current ui, does not mean that it is good.a more distinctive reticule (like the ones used in freelancer) around targets and ships targeting you with icons showing active ewar and other module effects used against you instead of the current overview mini icons would be a step ahead. also the enemy position indicators being positioned around your ship in a circle (like in gof) would be neat.i don't suffer from insanity.. i enjoy it !"
"i started a small discussion in the general discussion forum, and after viewing peoples replies i think i would like to propose it.without rewriting the wheel, please go read the discussion forum there..."
"i have read the prior reply's and there seems to be an emerging arguement to \"instancing\".ok, whether it be a restricted site like the final pocket in angel extravaganza, or an instance like a wh.... lets ignore the \"programming aspect\" of this idea. thats up to ccp to decide.a couple questions came up during the last 3 pages and i would like to give my reasons for them...question 1: why not have a pvp mission agent for all levels...why just level 4's?answer: my reasoning for this, is so you don't get someone like me going up to level 1 agents and getting a pvp mission and whopping the butt of a brand new eve player. once you have attained level 4's with an agent, you are no longer 'gullable' in the game and your skills in the tiny ships do seem to hold up towards older players.question 2: why not join red vs blue or another corp and go hunting?answer: i like my corp, we are a corp of really good friends. i do not want to give taxes to some other corp, and i don't need any more drama from 12 year old telling me what i can and can't do in a corp. our corp was formed to get away from stuff like that, our corp keeps our assets safe... so i simply will not join another corp for that reason.question 3: why not just pvp against someone in your corp of in your alliance?answer: because when you do not know your targets 'toon age', or the ship they are bringing ( just the class of ship ), and you do not know their skillset ( if they are really good at jamming or rockets or neuting you )... there defenitly is an exciting \"im gonna get my butt whooped or im gonna win\" factor that plays.question 4: why not fix faction warefare?answer: to be honest, i don't know much about faction warefare, it wasn't explained 'that great' during the tutorial missions i did about 2 years ago and i really haven't touched them since. i don't know what these do to your faction standing. but again, this is a battle that takes place when 1 person usually is not ready for pvp and the other is im assuming. someone gets 'jumped' by the apposing team.question 5: you should move this discussion to a different forum.answer: i want a general discussion about this idea about whats wrong with it, whats right with it, and if its feasable... if you want to go make 12 other posts in a different forum go ahead. i chose this one, and i don't have the time to follow 20 forums.one other point i would like to make about introducing some kind of pvp to hs, is that even though the ships are \"small\", stuff is getting blown up. so some prices will rise because of it. i'm sure plenty of people would suddenly make up pvp fits and try to sell them on the market as well.anyway... thank you all (so far) for adding very interesting comments and at least keeping the discussion cival. i have read them all - and even the links. one thing that amazed me was how a very simillar idea was posted november 2nd... how some of us are starting to think of \"the same thing\" eve might \"need\" (\"need\" is a bad word for this sentance) to make the game more enjoyable for others.don't forget, i am not trying to 'ruin' or break eve or make your gameplay worse. i am trying to come up with introducing a new type of play into eve that 51% or more of the population would enjoy.cheers'"
"you realized what's wrong with your suggestion yourself. why post it? bad trolling sir."
"no, no, no and no.did i mention no?"
"this pic was from a week or so ago (by way of follow up): lina on sisi"
"the size doesn't seem to have changed too much, those are still freaking huge..."
"i don't understand why people are complaining about ts, it's not like it's impossible to kill offgrid boosters unless they are in a pos, in wch case it's a matter of the residents of a system having a slight advantage, wch is fine.limiting boosting to ongrid will make managing fleet erachy a nightmare with the current game mechanics, as you will lose bonusses (potentially for the entire fleet) whenever a commander of some sort dies or is forced to leave grid for some reason, and it'll also screw up if you have to split your fleet up to fight in several places at once. the people who tnk fitting command t3s with buffer and weapons is a good idea are just plain wrong. it will be useless and outperformed by a drake, and also only have 1 link, and be overpriced (noone would ever use that subsystem on a t3 again). commandsps, however, are meant to be on the field - i wouldn't mind if those were buffed in order to be doing the job better than offgrid t3s . maybe switch the bonusses so the commandsps give a bigger bonus that t3s. or make some kind of mechanic that enhances command bonusses for a command sps if they are on grid, so it'll have the role intended."
"if the t3 sp is already aligned and using an afterburner the pilot would have to be afk to get caught. meanwle the gang that is uselessly trying to chase the booster sp is short at least one pilot that should be on grid during the fight.the advantage will not be slight once t2 links are out. people who do not use these alts will not be able to compete. it won't be a nightmare. it will of course hurt the fleet if a booster needs to leave grid or dies - but that is expected right?even now if they are fighting in different systems there is no bonus. i don't tnk people are saying t3s should be used on grid as command sps. i tnk command sps should be used on grid as command sps. its not like t3s will become completely useless if they are no longer the sp everyone sits their booster alts in. if ts in fact will be a significant t to those who do t3 industry that would just prove that ts is getting ridiculous. i would be in favor of buffing command sps but i'm not sure increases the command bonuses is how to do it. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"yet more lazy excuses and 'can't be bothered' arguments.if they don't bring a booster, then isn't that simply bad planning? bring a booster and compete, simple.also, everyone has the ability to gain the same advantage with t2 links. it will be a nightmare and it is a completely unnecessary change.irrelevant.ts bad idea says otherwise.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"how about ts. nerf t3 links slightly (mby just remove the command bonus so they are the same as battlecruiser links) but leave them alone otherwise (still able to be offgrid).then buff commandsp links to current t3 stats but limit them to ongrid. ts will allow small roaming gangs, who doesn't have manpower to bring people in command sps, to still bring their alts in cloaky t3s like they do now - slightly less effectively. and it will ensure that an ongrid dedicated command sp will do the job better, rewarding the people who actually bring their links to the fight. tbh i would rather not see it changed at all, but ts is a compromise i can live with"
"you and i just disagree on whether eve should require people to multibox alts if they want to pvp. thats what all ts comes down to. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"ummm...duh? ts is kinda the whole freaking point."
"+1 definitely support this."
"nothing like flying an interceptor and suddenly 100 warrior iis redbox you at once in a fleet fight;you burn off and switch to your drones tab and the game chokes up.vide longe er eros di luminaire vii, uni canse pra krage e determiniex! sange por sange! descanse bravex eros, mie freires. mortir por vostre liberete, farmilie, ide e amis. lons proviste sen mort! luminaire liber mas!"
"i like the fact that we are mostly on the same page in terms of where this can go although i was obviously way off on the pricing scale. the one area where we differ in on the design mechanics, you favoring a menu based selection process with the dev<U+FFFD>s adding lots of new lp items into the game.personally i was envisioning a points balancing system, where adding points to various areas of the ships stats have some drawbacks. for example spending points on most stats increases the ships mass and thus creates a negative impact on the ships speed and maneuvering, using points to reduce the ships mass translates into a decrease in the ship<U+FFFD>s hull structure and to a lesser extent a decrease in armor hit points. now of course the bonus from the increase would be greater than the penalty incurred elsewhere.now instead of creating new component elements to be added into the game, as you reach certain thresholds in points in various stats some of the advanced components are required in the design.so for example if i spend a lot of points in certain areas then my ships bill of materials may include things like graviton reactor units, sleeper thermal regulators, internal bulkheads, or optimized nano-engines.obviously the higher the points the more of these items and higher quantities show up in the bill of materials. it<U+FFFD>s the balancing act needed with a point system, which along with a limitation on total points used in a design will mean that no matter how much money you pour into a top shelf battleship design it will be impossible to make an absolutely perfect or unstoppable ship of any class. we have to keep in mind that in order for a player ship designer system to be accepted it will have to be balanced. if financial juggernaut alliances can simply dump a few hundred billion from their massively deep pockets into making pocket dreadnaughts that can trounce any and all tech 1 and tech 2 battleships it will not be accepted.but you<U+FFFD>re right; if this comes about i foresee some truly interesting developments in the future. one of the things i think we will see that you did not mention would be the appearance of alliance proprietary/signature designs. the reason for this will be obvious, if the ship is never released for public sale it is much more difficult for the opposition to analyze a ships strengths and weaknesses and thus figure out how to defeat it. some designs may even become near legendary or mythic, in their infamy. dreaded monsters lurking in the depths of null sec space to devour the fleets of their enemies before vanishing back into the darkness."
"so... yeah. the reason why i suggested lp items and menus, rather then point-buy and a scaling bill of requirements, is because one of those ways is really easy for a large alliance to integrate into existing production chains, therefore producing top-tier ships en-masse and killing off any and all low-tier competition; while the other is obnoxiously difficult to mass-produce, and will require continual logistical effort to keep going. it should be obvious which is which.the one thing big alliances have lots of is resources. in particular, stuff like moon goo and t2 components are in relative abundance. the one thing they need to expend special effort on is logistics; anything that requires bits not findable in their home regions needs to be imported, and on a regular basis if it's at all important. given that, it seemed logical to me... not to mention infinitely more doable on ccp's end... to use a menu system over a point system. it can, and should, be a much bigger menu then the existing t3 options, with more slots to choose from and more items to go in each slot, but with a finite amount of possibilities nonetheless. if each individual part requires an individual sinking of isk, from an individual mission runner who had to spend time running said missions in dangerous bits of space that's far less exploitable then 'spend x more money to get x more power'. your suggestion, as is, would create a relatively linear scaling system, in which there's very little difference between the bottom and top of the line vessels, in terms of player effort needed to create them, where mine would result in a system with more individual involvement in the production process, and with far tighter logistical constraints on the edge cases."
"ring~ring~ring~ring~ring..."
"why is it even there? you can't fit it after the siege mod and 3 launchers, unlike a naglfar. it also brings up production cost unnecessarily.i don't see the revelation or moros with a launcher slot so get rid of this stupid \"feature\""
"or better yet...give the phoenix the option of using 3 turrets or 3 launchers so the phoenix can actually be useful."
"comedy fits. comedy fits.-1 for trying to mess with my blaster phoenix."
"its the only way it can hit a customs office"
"since when are they overpowered? \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"since the introduction.\"being supporters of free speech and free and open [csm] elections... we removed fon revedhort from eligibility\". ccp, april 2013."
"you're pretty dumb \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"2011.11.22 05:02do you read mails???from: industrial oblitoratorto: ccp soundwave, ccp phantom, ccp loxy, ccp zirnitra, ccp navigatorgdayi am send ing this again as we need to get underway with preparationswill ccp support us or who do we contact?we plan this to be played over the christmas period when we are in our summer as we are in our active time.please read on and respond or tell me to go away.either way we need to make preparations for this competition.thankyoui am the ceo of an australian corp and an active member of the australian eve community.a couple of times a year we run an australian roam where blues and reds and nuets all join a fleet and roam around eve.australians from many corps and alliances join together to have fun, drink and roam.australian /autz eve players are a very unique group as downtime is always in our prime playtime and always affects what we are doing in game.. sometime we dont get to play as there are long patches etc., we are always saught after by alliances to fill the au timeslot to make alliances truly 24/7, we all like eve but find it difficult to join the alliance tourney as it is not our timezone , things like work and sleep tend to get in the way whenever the tournament is on.anyways....on that ,myself and ngr rdnx a gentleman that runs an autz radio show (that has an eve related show on friday nights) would like to run a tournament in the autz for 5 man fleets from each of the autz corps.we have had a lot of banter between ceos and other aussies in game.i have spoken to many ceos of australian corps in game and they are all excited about this event. seems it is very positive the feedback we have had already.we would like to have* 5 man fleetsbc below* each fleet to have1 frig1 cruiser t11 ewar shipno logi* to be held in neutral space (this is where you can help us)* the fights to be fast and high turnover.* many rounds over a short period of time.there maybe more points to consider* players to have members of the corp for 6 months minimumwe have a concern people will metagame and compromse the competition, eg fight before the tourney or bring in fleets to disrupt the event etc etc etc..we would like to give out isk and ships for prizes and will charge a fee to enter and all isk going back to the winners etc.we would also like some sort of award to be presented to the winners so they can have it in their bio as bagging rights.this would be fantastic for the autz eve community and forge a stronger bond for our love of eve online and potentialy bring more players to eve and reignite the passion we have for eve.this event we would like to run every year.in advance we would like to thankyou for your support of this event.indy0/"
"so ... do it?wtf do you need soundwave et al for?"
"we have a concern people will metagame and compromse the competition, eg fight before the tourney or bring in fleets to disrupt the event etc etc etc.."
"if you're worried about a fleet showing up, have your own sanctions in place in case it happens....e.g. -- your corporation is immediately disqualified if you bring in a fleet that's not the agreed upon composition (frig, cruiser, ewar, 2 others). to enforce it, have one of the bigger (and, hopefully, more trusted) corporations have their own wtfpwn fleet on the sidelines. seriously, you already have the tools to enforce the \"rules\" (also, ccp isn't going to moderate the tourney for you)."
"mate we are talking about corps from alliances such asfconaifncdot-a-gewnsrote kappelle but to name but a fewthese are all alliances that will use any chance to slay a neut or a redso having a do gooder fleet on hand is not really a feasible option as all alliance will have the same thing..and it has the potential to be an event destroyer.we have considered this seriously enough to seek some ccp assistance.they want us to organise player events and get involved .well here as an event they can get involved in.so ccp back us up and make this happen"
"... yeah, little harder to get anything working \"properly\" with the goons ... so start an all out war with everyone else instead... or run the tourney on sisi?"
"this. if you don't want people metagaming beyond a certain degree, go outside the game, where they don't care about their shinies being blown up.edit: also, i'm reasonably certain that the eve-mail accounts of the ccp folks aren't monitored at all, to answer your first question."
"this is actually a clever idea."
"your encouraging active tanking but making active tanking modules a sensor booster?the hell you on?a: sensor boosters make sense as a module...b: repair modules repair...thats all they do...even in a rp sense it doesn't make sense.pvp'ers dont active tank for a reason....i'm not saying this is a collasial bad idea (like your others)but something smells...and it sure as hell aint rotten fish.i'll sit on the fence on this one.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"sensor strength is not scan resolution. it would make you harder to jam and probe down, not decrease your lock time."
"yeah i was about to troll the **** out of those who are confusing the two, but i can easily see how they can be confused. i will update my proposal to clarify."
"d'oh. the funny thing is, i was actually thinking about eccm before i wrote that response. oh well. it's still a quirky as **** suggestion, but the one thing i'm thinking of then is, unprobable ships?"
"being unprobbable is no longer possible. now how do you feel about the idea?"
"dunno. as i said, it's still quirky as ****, and it's not exactly a logical connection. i'm still leaning towards no because of the illogical connection, but at this point that's the most i can think of at the moment. i don't do small gangs. vov"
"not supporting..... this defeats the purpose of fitting an eccm. based on the resposnes i'm seeing.troll away...like it will help.ps: at that rate as people have said...ecm/eccm mechanics need to be looked at anyway...if at all.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"aside from the fact that if i posted the exact medical formula for a cure to cancer and you would still declare it was a bad idea. the fact remains that fitting an actual dedicated eccm module gives a much better bonus.regardless, you made up your mind on my idea before you even read it. you already proved that with your first post."
"this is not a crue to cancer.this is a troll.drop the act and grow up for once. it's obvious that there are too many questions being begged from your proposal from what other people are saying as it is.and until they are addressed throughly and emphatically.... i'm not changing my mind.so keep trolling away...your just proving my argument beyond reason.ps: who the hell compares an eve online idea to a crue for cancer? that just makes it all the more obvious this is messed up.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i have answered every question so far which was one or two and clarified the proposal a bit more so people are not confused in thinking about sensor boosters. if you don't like it, fine. you claim i troll when it is you are the one desperately trying to derail another one of my ideas. if you any more concerns or problems, eve-mail them to me. in the mean time just simply **** off to someone else's thread."
"ahem. i fly logistics. i'm well aware of the difference between sensor strength and scan resolution, and that the bonus you're referring to is the same bonus as an eccm mod grants, and not at all the same as that which a sensor booster grants. personally, i find the distinction silly, and don't really see why there needs to be so many different modules affecting 'how good your sensors are'... especially since the various eccm mods fill a particularly narrow and specialist niche... but that's a separate point entirely, and i don't think my original post could reasonably be interpreted as conflating the two.that said... i maintain that there doesn't seem to be any reason for combining local reps with eccm. the two have completely different roles, and i'm puzzled as to why you find it necessary to combine them. admittedly, i don't solo pvp, so i've not much experience with the arena where local reps are actually important. in fleet combat, of course, remote reps win every time over local, since it's a specialized ship doing the repping while the local ship focuses on resists. that's the way the math works out... and really, i don't think that's a bad thing.but since it is your thread... care to explain why folding eccm into local reps would be a preferable solution to, say, combining them with sensor boosters?"
"because having that means still devoting a middle slot to help with your sensor strength. this would also mean that larger fleets that do use logistics and fit ehp tanks gain the benifit of the eccm built into their sensor boosters. the idea is not to boost medium to large scale fleets against ecm, but to buff solo and very small scale fleets.this is not some overall nerf to ecm/falcons, but it only feels like a slight nerf if said ecm is going against what is most likely a solo/very small fleet. a local repair module is the only exclusive module that is used on such solo and very small fleets. that is why i picked it. yes i know some of you can't grasp the idea because you want to know what in the world does repairing your ship have to do with the ships sensor strength. again, the local repair module is the only thing that fits into those parameters. so the giving the eccm bonus to sensor boosters may seem to fit better because they are both deal with sensory stuff, it would easily translate to a huge nerf to ecm in all forms of combat. having the spare cpu and power grid to fit a sensor booster is nothing compared to fitting a local repair module.i hope this will help better explain why i picked a local repair module over a sensor booster module. if someone feels they understand what i am saying and can formulate a response better, don't hesitate to do so."
"dumb idea..as a falcon pilot.... i can only enter small gang warfare.. in big gangs i am wasted fast.... so doing that essentially removes my 1.5 years of ecm training from the game..if you have tears about a special skill like ecm..then i say that drones should not be aggressing me if you are jammed or even assigned to attack me if i have you jammed... or and guns fired should make it easier for me to jam you as your ships power needs to fire the weopons therefore making you easier to jamm..so if you try nerfing my skill cause you got jammed a few times to bad.. get yaself a falcon pilot or train eccm...there are counters to ecm.. eccm...more ships...fof missles.try learn them rather than nerf a ship that keeps getting nerfed ..do not fark my game play up as you are to lazy to improve yours..if anything ecm ships need more chance of jamming and stronger jamms... points and webs do not fail or miss.so why should ecm....if your in a small gang and an ecm ship jamms you deal with it.i dont like loosing much more expensive falcon to your cheap myrm cause you dont know how to counter ecm.have a cup of concrete and hard the fark up sunshine.ecm really needs a buff"
"good point. personal rep-eccm module would render small gang ecm useless in favor of op active tanking."
"you could have stopped right there.\"being supporters of free speech and free and open [csm] elections... we removed fon revedhort from eligibility\". ccp, april 2013."
"very good idea. i like it. i think active tank modules can be boosted by increasing overheat bonus (armorrepair +30% duration -30%) and also add resist bonus when module is overheated. resist bonus = meta-lvl*1%*penalty."
"oh yes, a carrier orca deplying 20 automatic hulks !!!erm, too big troll ?"
"factually wrong. stopped reading there."
"your loss. last time i checked you cannot use a smartbomb in highsec. guess i will go try it when i get home to be sure."
"why wait? simply look at evelopedia:\"hey have an area of effect in which every object, hostile or otherwise, will be hit. because of that, using them in high security systems is not advised, as hitting almost anyone will result in concord intervention.\"from:"
"well either way a solution has already been posted several times in regards to gcc's on exploding ships."
"haha, it sounds like a good idea but it's fail tbh. blaster boats will be so ****** up if this happens."
"my personal preference, which i've expressed internally on csm, is to permit drag-n-drop of bookmarks in and out of chat channels, evemail and the igb. in other words, they become a special url with built in validation to prevent spoofing.even nicer if you can right-click on one of these urls in evemail or the igb and be able to warp to it..."
"can you please please please add more than saved 50 fittings!!"
"theres a devblog somewhere stating it will be 100 personal and 250 corp with this expansion. i am too lazy to go find it.yay for lazy posting."
"yeah sure, lock the manufacturing slots for yourself. failed troll."
"your assumption is wrong. i personally do all my manufacturing in a pos. there's no contingency.as for station, the solution is rather simple. you make the queue as long as 1 cycle. which means that every cycle, someone else gets a chance to jump in for a cycle and it alternates with different people unless there's no one else queued up.is this a solution that can be considered reasonable?"
"indeed, i'm still wondering why freight containers are in the deployable category. they can't be deployed/jettissoned/anchored in any way we need big boxes, 27.5k can is to small.or maybe the box is the freighter itself, idk yet if a corp don't have the right freighter pilot, they're screwed, they can't deliver the containers to a pos.too many limitations on freight cans make them almost useless"
"if this is to happen game mechanics should be used.concord or empire navies have warp scram and web ships for criminals after criminal acts, to hold them in stasis.though, concord should be revised to be not so invicable, freeing a prisoner should be possible, as with escaping."
"i'm in favor of any animation improvement to incarna. ironically, the devs realized that it's the little subtle movements that bring a character to life, and missed one (two?) obvious ones. i'm not talking dead or alive here, but there is some subtle movements to breasts unless you have them bound really (read: painfully) tightly."
"thank you...this is all i ask for."
"the way ts has been going:a:off-grid gangboosters are bad! they can't be hurt! put them on grid.b: yes they can, just scan them down! leave them alone.a: but the sig is too small! you need mad-1337 skillz to scan them!b: htfuwhy not just make ganglinks increase sig/decrease res (make them easier to scan down), but keep them off grid, and then everyone only a little unhappy..."
"fyp.make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"obviously hasn't read a single post in ts thread..."
"bad idea, it allowes a solo pilot or a smaller gang to engage a larger group and still be able to win the fight."
"wch is fine. if they are on grid with you.a falcon affords the same benefit -- but it has to be on grid with you. any recon for that matter. but they all have to be on grid with you."
"are you required to have a falcon alt, too, in order to be competative?or may be another damage dealer? you know, dual-boxing 2 battlesps isn't that hard.or a cloaked tracking-disrupting pillgrim? or logistic sp?some should better deal with the fact that bringing in another sp is always beneficial. it's another story whether on- or off-grid boosting is ok - just don't bring irrelevant facts to the discussion.\"being supporters of free speech and free and open [csm] elections... we removed fon revedhort from eligibility\". ccp, april 2013."
"yeah...ts is a pretty stupid post...especially since the \"lazy\" people are those in an invicible gang link sp not participating in the fight.yes let's go to all the trouble of scanning down a sp wch has either already left it's position and is warping around system from one safe spot to another or is sitting in a pos where he cannot be touched.you were born with a brain...try using it."
"what do you mean solo? no one takes these booster sps into combat solo. they are almost exclusively used by an alt.oh do you mean solo because the killmails don't show the booster alt? so your killboard looks like you fought solo but really you had what ever sp gets the killmail plus a t3 cruiser helping? is that what you mean? make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"not all falcons pilots are alts. if people want to try to dual box several sps wle they are on grid they can go ahead. some can do it, but many will just hand out easy kills for people who are focused on one character.dual boxing 2 battlesps on a combat grid may not be that hard if you are are in a blob but if you are in a tough small gang fight its pretty hard. but again go ahead and do that if you want. i have no problem with people bringing many sps *on grid*. tracking disrupter pilgrim to whore killmails? go ahead. it will be on grid and therefore you will have to manage it much closer than a t3 booster. as far as logistics i will agree those mechanics need looking at as well. but at least they show up on grid.one important difference is at least you can learn the people/corps who are always going to bring the falcon, or the logi in on grid. so you can get burned once but then you know. the next time you can know what they are going to do and prepare for it. you likely won't even know about the t3 booster alt, and even if you did figure it out, there is notng you can do about it - other than start multiboxing alts yourself. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"instant acceleration and deceleration into and from warp? definitely no.on the other hand, i'd like to see some sort of effect when someone falls out of warp nearby, something akin to cherenkov radiation when the ship slows down."
"please discuss issues related to this session in this thread. we look forward to your comments and suggestions."
"remember, this is *little* things. i am still working on my personal list, here is what is on it so far:1) shields on ships out of a sma/entering a pulsar/joining a fleet2) better system than pos passwords for pos access (same ui as chat channels, would be awesome)3) capital smas allowed in w-space4) cans in corp hangers. should be able to name them, open them, put stuff in them5) rename all pos structures6) randomness in sleeper spawns7) don't change sig ids after dt - edit: this was done with crucible!8) capital ship sd timerscsm 7 secretary csm 6 alternate delegate @two_step_eve on twitter my blog"
"1. if every person had their own special 'tab' within a corporate hanger - you would get around having everything all jumbled up and a billion containers everywhere.basically (all current corp hangers) + 1 personal hanger tab.you cannot access your personal tab if you dont have security to the hanger.2. ship maint bay should work the same. a corp tab of all ships - and a personal tab of just your own stuff. if you do not have security for the ship maint bay, then you cannot access your 'personal tab' out of it either.its very hard from keeping your personal items and ships from getting mish mashed between all corp members. stuff goes missing/replaced all the time.a \"personal tab\" added to the regular corp divisions tabs would solve the problem.3. allow any structure to be renamed. - its very hard to set security to a structure when you do not know the name of it cause they are all the same name.4. signature changes after downtime - must rescan all the time to find out whats new. 5. copying bookmarks is still very cumbersom as you need to pull the bookmark to your own cargohold and then to your bookmarks, then copy back and put back. there should be something simple to just \"right click\" on bookmarks ( a tonne of bookmarks ) and say \"copy to my bookmarks\" or something.6. onlining and offlining a pos - there should be something like a 30 min or an hour cue. so you can anchor a tonne of structures and then make a cue for 'onlining them' so you can walk away for a bit. those structures are all within the shields anyway so who cares if you are 'watching' them online or not. watching stuff online 2-3 minutes online makes you feel like taking a hammer to your head.7. why cannot i jump through a wormhole when i just entered a fleet? 8. security needs a bit of an overhaul - but the above are my 7 issues."
"ok - what's fw doing in little things?point for discussion - take fw out of \"little things\" and fix it properly (see numerous threadnaughts on the subject in general discussion or the many blog posts).i admit i'm a fw fan boi and therfore biased.... but as i recall, a certain ceo stated \"factional warfare needs to be fixed.\" in his open letter to the community last month.fw isn't going to get fixed within \"little things\"drackarnfaction war fan boi ;)"
"fw both needs little things and a larger overhaul. until ccp is willing to commit resources to that larger overhaul, they would like to fix as many smaller fw issues as they can. csm 7 secretary csm 6 alternate delegate @two_step_eve on twitter my blog"
"you forgot swapping tech3 subsystems on pos"
"yeah this would be really appreciated"
"#4 from mnagy is probably the most important wh fix request and doesn't only apply to wh space...it is also here..."
"repackaging/stacking stuff in cargo hangars would be nice."
"as stated before...if i see this on the \"thousand papercuts\" list or at least see a dev post somewhere that it is something they are at least looking into then i will be happy.oh...and bump."
"+1. i supported the original back in 07, i support it still.feel free to come on over to the recently reopened ship crew thread and give me some support too."
"please discuss issues related to this session in this thread. we look forward to your comments and suggestions."
"i would like to get some discussion about this going...there is way too many \"1 player\" corporations in eve and reasons are clear.this issue as a whole would give enough content to one entire expansion and benefit entire community."
"yes, corp roles (and pos) sorely need looked into... and not just fixing the fuel (which is, btw, a good first step)"
"i'd actually like to see more comments and ideas regarding a suggestion i'm working on bringing up into the assembly hall.pi 2.0"
"please make pve (ratting and missioning, mainly) generally more than the tedious isk-racking chore that it is today. incursions were a nice start."
"yes: production chains. processes from gathering basic resources to creating all kinds of complex items. players can specialize in one part of the process, or run the whole chain. the process integrates well with many other areas of the game.example: pi. from planet gatherers to factory consortiums, from pos fuel to tii components and outpost parts.no: click-get reward.example: nex store (derp). incursions. kill a bunch of npcs. get isk.yes: promote cooperation. more content which gives an advantage to people teaming up in different roles. don't be afraid to make being in a fleet a prerequisite for some content! also make people compete for limited resources.example: incursions.no: purely single-player content, with no way of cooperating and/or competing, or with cooperation not bringing in enough benefits to warrant splitting the rewards in half. \"instanced\" content (even in the eve meaning - everyone gets a mission site of their own).example: pi.(c wat i did thar?)"
"please discuss issues related to this session in this thread. we look forward to your comments and suggestions.editor's note: ccp's title for this topic was \"convenience microtransactions\", but we have not heard of any specific plans for such microtransactions, and the csm is generally opposed to the idea."
"convenience mts in eve online?never ever without switching to free to play."
"did they gave you examples, or do we have to discuss what we can accept and not... again ?also having this on the last day is a bad idea ; it will for sure be a hard disucssion, and you'll need to talk again about it another day before leaving"
"no. double no.mt only for vanity items... ever... if that."
"with all due respect, anyone who advocates anything beyond sparkle-ponies (i.e. vanity items) for mt should be forced to answer to a salvo of quad 3500 mm artillery... if they survive the first salvo, repeat."
"i want hats"
"anything that gets introduced that people had to previously invest time for will set of the **** storm all over again.don't even think about jump clones or standings for real world money ccp. unless you enjoyed last summers thread-naughts ofc...just sayin."
"in shortmicrotransactions - **** no.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"2/3 of the crucible would be sold as mt...just no. if anything else, would be too great an incentive to leave or even intentionally create \"inconvenencies , which should be properly named just bad design and coding. and ccp has way too much proven record of making inconvenient stuff.<<insert some waste of screen space here>>"
"microtransactions could actually be beneficial to the economy as we know it. however, i don't mean by the creation of an iwin button, or several items that give a defined advantage over other players. what i suggest is that mts continue, but lower prices for aurum, and make the nex the great isk sink that it could be utilized as. it could help stabilize the failing economy, as with current nex prices, and the addition of aurum has driven the price of plex up to alarming levels, currently affecting numerous people and their ability to continue playing eve.vanity items only.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"vanity items only. this is how it should remain."
"no mt at all. vanity is a core gameplay mechanic in this game, as a quick look through these boards will show. so, no pay2win even for the vanity game."
"no cash store mt whatsoever for stuff in the eve online client as long as a subscription is charged.preferably remove nex store and ceremonially throw the people who envisaged and championed it into the harbour.all ship customization, logos, exotic clothing and such should be introduced into the game by traditional means allowing players to research, develop, earn loyalty points from factions etc, and sell this stuff to other players on the market. its an absolute no-brainer that npc corporate and faction ship skins should come from those factional loyalty stores. furthermore, i'd like you to strongly remind ccp that they already got a form of mt additional income from the introduction of plex (which allows cash rich time poor players to spend rl currency on game advantage) and trying to impact the sandbox further is just being greedy.of course, you could argue that even additional accounts (which many many of us have) are another form of mt that makes gameplay easier (cyno alts anyone?)conclusion being. screw nex! get that content flowing back into the sandbox by the traditional means and do not be tempted to nickel and dime subscription paying customers again in the future. the solution for ccp to increase its cash flow is to: 1. improve the game so more people subscribe (and tell their friends to come subscribe too!)2. introduce expensive kit that people make ingame and sell for big isk (that some will trade plex/isk for)3. stop flushing money down the drain on half-assed projects that nobody really cares about.it really isn't rocket science."
"qfecouldn't have said it better myself.**** the nex store and aur crud...there's no reason or purpose to it....the economy should be unified under isk anyway for dust 514....why make it any harder than it is.we can build/produce the stuff for the ground pounders anyway... we need the focus shfited back to the game...and as evidenced by recent events...its obvious that its the right thing to do.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"if anyone cares to read it, i have an alternate proposal where both players and ccp all benefit from micro-transactions, without effecting game balance (ie no pay to win)."
"please discuss issues related to this session in this thread. we look forward to your comments and suggestions."
"just going to keep banging the drum here about the 'complete industry revamp' that was supposed to be quantum rise but got pushed into a backlog black hole.any hopes of this being resurrected in the near future?"
"dear friends, i think it is time that we focused on the new features that are being released with this winter's expansion to our favourite mmo. we have been told that all the racial captains quarters are being released, and that means that full-on incarna v2.0 is just around the corner. i can't wait to walk in stations, but before we get to that we need to take a look at how we're each going to defend our rusty space hovels. i believe that the best way possible is for each racial captains quarters to come equipped with a weapon rack which could be placed on a wall somewhere, and would come standard with an array of racially themed killing implements that would be safe to use in the confines of a space station without worrying about blasting a hole in the hull. to that end, i am pretty sure things like space daggers and space katanas will be the order of the day, and i am prepared with a list of reasons why this makes perfect sense.first, as previously mentioned it appeals to those among the science fiction fandom who realize the intrinsic issues with fire arms on a space ship or space station. explosives and lasers and projectiles that blast or shoot holes in things are a very bad idea on an contained platform whose purpose of keeping an atmosphere inside of it is greatly hindered by being ruptured. put bluntly a sharp bladed instrument is far less dangerous for the integrity of the space vessel than is a fire arm.second, the inclusion of swords and swordfighting mechanics will appeal to a wide audience of people ranging from the dungeons & dragons fantasy mmo player who enjoys world of warcraft and rolling twelve-sided dice, to the budding star trek fan who was quite impressed by sulu's ability to wield a telescopic katana in the most recent movie. on that note, we should totally allow switchblade and telescopic versions of pretty much any sword that is introduced so as to provide functional differences in their performance. you could even modify the stats of certain other weapons to compensate! imagine a whole new realm of customized items.third, the addition of the sword specifically as a melee weapon associated with honour and chivalry allows for the time-honoured practice of the space bushido warrior code to be fully exemplified in a modern day samurai: now, one can literally have an honour duel with another player, all thanks to the presence of a sword. and if one is slighted in some way, or feels that one has failed in his service to his feudal space lord, then one can commit space seppuku.fourth, swords and combat would allow ccp to further develop the carbon framework that can be used in later iterations of eve online and other products to include dust and wod.i am sure there are more reasons, to include how stylishly a katana goes with a neckbeard, but i think i will stop there for now and open the floor for comment by my fellow space citizens of new eden. reddit: lyris_nairn skype: lyris.nairn twitter: @lyris_nairn"
"incarna v2, just in time for the next expansion."
"i support these ideas fully"
"+1i always dreamed of having a gun/sword fight in the halls of a low-sec station."
"can we get slippers with shoebells on them too?"
"gooo away...."
"+1 for awesome potential. that and blades make more sense as weapons in space then laser guns do. it's harder to breach a bulkhead with a sword."
"so you want to be a jedi ? 3/10 for trolling.."
"um, no. stop and use your two brain cells for a moment and think about it. in a hostile environment such as space, what weapon are stations and ship captains going to look the other way for, and which one will they come down hard on:a weapon like a blade that if you miss, you miss.ora weapon like a gun or some sort of laser rifle where, if you miss, you kill yourself, your target, and everyone else in the compartment due to a blow out?hmm... methinks they're far more likely to allow the knives and swords."
"awesome chain of thought you got going on there m8. i still think its a troll, we've kind of established that wis is dead and buried so lets keep it that way kk ?"
"i wish i could like this post more."
"i like the idea, but i doubt the gameplay could be easily done on eve. it would need so much stuff...shooter duel would be way easier to implement"
"i see your katana and raise you ... ramming a nyx into the side of the station."
"wis is a long, long way from being dead and buried. i figure we'll see them get back to it if ccp plays their cards right on this and the next expansion. ccp has invested far too much time and money to let them go. plus, i have to agree with hilmar that it will eventually be an important aspect to the overall future eve online experience."
"i'm gonna say that wis is a long way from dead too, simply because i actually enjoy the ambiance of my cq when not blasting the cookies out of something. if the rest of the station interiors is as good, we'll see a lot less people spinning ships.however, this would, actually, require ccp to get it's act together."
"please discuss issues related to this session in this thread. we look forward to your comments and suggestions."
"give ccp punkturis a hug and tell her, that we understand that it was impossible task to finish and polish everything what she started before the crucible launch. we still appreciate the work she pushed forward to meet with the requests of the whining community and hope that she will be given enough time and resources during the next few months to properly polish all the features already in the game."
"they did a lot of good things, really.however i would like to see the list of systems on the way back on starmap, on a form or another.being able to see infos on one system is not the same as being able to see infos on all the systems at the same time.you can't add midway waypoints or do some tweaking without all the information.see this post for more details :"
"please do your best to make sure that this effort continues. not neccessarily on as huge scale as now - ccp needs to work on other projects too - but little things shouldn't be abandoned after the release until we shoot up an npc structure again. i especially love the speed of the feedback. i've seen this happen several times already:ccp: we brought this new feature x to sisi.player: cool! but it'd be nice if it could do y too.ccp: i'll look into it![a day later]ccp: y is now in the development build.player: happy fun joy joy!"
"please discuss issues related to this session in this thread. we look forward to your comments and suggestions."
"please discuss issues related to this session in this thread. we look forward to your comments and suggestions."
"again, this seems like an awful waste of time compared to a lot of issues that are fiercely fought about and have been around for years. why did this make the list.the art is nice. we like it. bravo. now make more of the same. /discussionseriously."
"they should make a survey to chose the next ship to be redone if they have artists available"
"here are the currently scheduled session topics for the december csm summit.threads have been created for each session, and are linked below. we look forward to reading your comments, suggestions and concerns.wednesday 7thopening meeting with eve senior stafffuture of the csmeve-dust linkthe economy in generalthe plex in particularsecuritythursday 8th november wrapup - what's nextnullsec - stations, sov, resourceslittle things - fw, wormholesgame balancefuture highlevel discussion - general directionsfuture highlevel discussion - fixing broken systemsfriday 9th web cellmicrotransactionsnew player experienceartthe csm & hilmar"
"that seems odd that fw and wormholes are under little things. those strike me as quite big things."
"the session is to identify the most painful small issues in both of those systems, so they can be fixed. in fw's case, it probably also needs some larger improvements, but little things help a lot (see cruicible patch notes...)csm 7 secretary csm 6 alternate delegate @two_step_eve on twitter my blog"
"csm guys, just to clarify, are these topics that ccp has requested to talk to you guys about, or topics you guys have requested to talk to ccp about?"
"actually can you clarify exactly what the topics refer to here because some of these seem ridiculously vague.\"security\" - you mean like account security, hacking, phishing? or corp/alliance security (intel/counterintel, scamming, the metagame, corp roles, pos access)?\"fixing broken systems\" - what does \"systems\" mean in this context? and are you looking for examples of things that are broken and should be fixed, or to examine the methods that ccp as a business uses to make fixes to eve?some more words please!"
"please discuss issues related to this session in this thread. we look forward to your comments and suggestions."
"appears to be working as intended. eve is back on track. ccp will make more money. more money means more profit and investment into their other projects down the road."
"omg...so anyway...changes need to be made to the csm to ensure more balance for who is represented in the overall community. i don't see how it is even possible.csm members...(no offense trebor) should not be allowed to run if they have already been voted in and served on the csm once or twice already."
"your a day late and a dollar short.they lifted the restriction even under exterme protest and csm now have unlimtied terms....you have a snow balls chance in hell in reversing that.*happened last year....don't recall when or how or what but it was a dark day for csm/ccp*================ stop the evemail spam!"
"recently started to work as intended - by the players. as a leverage for players to get their views taken seriously by being legitimated, public, loud and focussed about it.still, could improve on its legitimacy by improving the election process. for example, reduce number of nominations to a more manageable number through some sort of primaries on the forums while making sure minority interests remain represented. rl politics have come up with quite a few ways to do this. also, make it easier and more attractive for players to vote. 50% participation would greatly add legitimacy."
"free 5k aurum for voting!only thing i can really think of without giving free isk or plex and screwing the game over."
"free aurum just means that of those people who don't currently vote, those who don't care enough about aurum will continue to not vote, and those who want free aurum will pick a name at random from the list (or just the first name at the top) so they get their payout. it might give the false impression of legitimacy but it wouldn't increase the number of informed or engaged voters."
"this is true but there really isn't any way to \"incentivise\" voting without giving some kind of reward compensation. unfortunately it will always lead to that outcome. i think ccp should work on the out of game and in game advertisements to help get the word out. make it easier to see the information people are voting for and more information about the person and what they wish to accomplish as well."
"any sort of incentive for voting will only add random noise to the results.the only way to encourage responsible voting is to promote the csm and make people widely aware of what it is and what it does. propaganda and campaigning by the candidates, and the idea that we can change the course of this game, is what brought many people in 0.0 alliances to vote for csm6, not getting free stuff."
"please discuss issues related to this session in this thread. we look forward to your comments and suggestions."
"should plex \"bound to account\" on isk purchase from in game market?in other words you could sell plex through in game market only once and the receiving account would be forced to turn it to either aurum or game time.this would prevent any kind of market manipulation with the item and remove quite a load of worries about unused plexes from ccp."
"i like that."
"honestly while i'm in favor of this...it would prevent freedom of the player driven market.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"you'd also reopen the doors to rmt people. patience is a very rare commodity online."
"how would not being able to re-sell a plex after buying it on the in-game market make rmt people more active ?i don't suffer from insanity.. i enjoy it !"
"in that case you can remove plex from the game and use the timecode forum to buy gtc for isk.i would like more control on manipulation, but you're going way too far."
"remember that for everybody buying plex to fund their account there's somebody selling plex to fund their pvp (or whatever) habbit.if you can get more isk for your dollar/euro/pound from rmt people because ccp removes supply demand mechanics from the in game market (which is what not allowing resale does) you make that option attractive to people.if $30 gets you 700 million legally (back when plex was 350ish) and 1 billion illegal through rmt to some people (not me btw) the risk of a ban becomes worth it.and now for a controversial statement; i think the interest of the people spending real world money should weigh heavier then the interest of people wanting to play for free. *zips up her flameproof suit*"
"every player's opinion is valid, if they didn't play then they aren't bringing in money to ccp. sure you may not be paying out of pocket to play if you purchase plex, but somebody else is so you are still a valid customer."
"yes but you need your customers giving you money not a 3rd party rmt'er."
"i disagree with this in one a bit.i have 2 paid by (cash) not isk accounts with eve ( i dont plex ) but i will let you know my issue below:1 toon is the moneymaker and the other toon ist he industrialist/do all the redundant stuff.i sometimes get toonb to purchase things for toona or vice versa depending on where they are in the universe.if the above suggested was to take place - it obsoletes my dummy toon for doing all the things in eve i hate (flying somewhere to buy stuff).so you still need to \"link\" multiple accounts together."
"wouldn't you just transfer the isk instead of the plex in this scenario?"
"i do not remember broad opposition to plex in any recent discussions. is it really an issue? if not, leave as is."
"duplicate post with eve error - read post below."
"it depends where the toon is.i could have toona in jita, and toonb in rens.one of them will buy an item for the other.when they meet up by days end - items are flip flopped.so the 'person' who bought it - itsnt always the person who used it.many times toona is missioning while toonb is sent around the galaxy to pick up items for me and for any other members in corp.this scenario becomes more apparent when you spend your time and live in wormholes more often.many times 1 buyer (since they are going out anyway) is given a shopping list."
"+1 excellent ideathank you.\"he has mounted his hind-legs, and blown crass vapidities through the bowel of his neck.\" - ambrose bierce on oscar wilde's lecture in san francisco 1882"
"eh, i'm more in favor of leaving plex alone. there are too many possible repercussions to deal with realisitically at this time, not the least of which is isk farmers."
"please discuss issues related to this session in this thread. we look forward to your comments and suggestions."
"pi 2.0an updated, assembly hall version is nearing completion and will be posted soon enough."
"we have absolutely no idea what are ccp's plans for this are. the only thing we know is that it will be tied to planets (whether the current pi system or something else), and that it might affect sovereignty.so far, there's nothing to discuss."
"this.we can't discuss something if it's totally nda and have no infos about it."
"please discuss issues related to this session in this thread. we look forward to your comments and suggestions."
"it would be nice if taking or losing sov involved more than 1 side bringing overwhelming numbers for 6 timers. it would be nice if there was actually some incentive to attacking multiple systems with smaller (say, 100 strong?) fleets rather than 1000+, with some sort of tug of war and possibility to actually have feint attacks."
"pretty much.brute force with massive numbers should be an option, but it shouldn't be the only option in every circumstance. there's more than one way to storm a castle."
"we hate shooting structures. that's the big point.also we need more reasons to need sov.maybe a system like fw ano, the one where you only need to stay near the beacon for the timer to move ?on sov it would mean that you don't need tons of ships, and so could do more than one thing at the same time.of course it would need a good thinking given it will be harder for defense."
"better yet fix the explosion velocity/radius of the torps and cruise missiles"
"please discuss issues related to this session in this thread. we look forward to your comments and suggestions."
"eve economy should be more than the supply and demand of a couple thousand capsuleers and the completely independent, static and completely implausible system of npc trade goods. have world-changing events like wars and incursions as well as the needs and wishes of billions of people on planets reflect on the market."
"laughable logic, sorry. probably caused by a wish to over dramatize unless you will find billions of real players wishing to play and personify those \"needs and wishes of billions of people on planets\" they will be exactly that - npc goods. oh, and we already have them.according to you \"world-changing events like wars and incursions \" will be purely npc stuff as well - couple thousand players can't implement all that on their own.and, btw, if there are couple thousand capsuleers, it is time to shut down servers and discuss one thing only - where to have a rip party.<<insert some waste of screen space here>>"
"1) wrong thread.2) the economy should be more than a rng and a bunch of algorithms people will figure out within a month after release. the economy should be based on the supply and demand of real people, and world-changing events like wars (and i don't mean amarr/minmatar wars) and invasions, as well as the needs and wishes of hundreds of thousands of real people.oh wait, it actually is."
"please discuss issues related to this session in this thread. we look forward to your comments and suggestions."
"wow. as long as this has been up.... i guess everyone is really thinking hard about what to say here................\"he has mounted his hind-legs, and blown crass vapidities through the bowel of his neck.\" - ambrose bierce on oscar wilde's lecture in san francisco 1882"
"please discuss issues related to this session in this thread. we look forward to your comments and suggestions."
"the wardec system needs to be looked at, yesterday.*especially what is and isn't allowed in hi-sec. *dec shields need addressing one way or the other, the recent sudden change in policy set a lot of bad blood with mercs, hi-sec dec corps and yes griefers.*ccp needs to take a clear stance on where they want to go with pvp mechanics in hi-sec."
"i know they are already working on it but it was coming with wis which has been put on hold. bounty system is all sorts of ****** up. in it's current state it isn't even worth having in the game."
"the wardec system needs a revamp.it needs to be simplified. a flat fee cost for wardeccing. there should be no need for decshields. there should be no accommodation for avoiding decs by jumping a corp to another alliance. a corp jumps to another alliance, the wardec follows it (and pulls in its new alliance free-of-charge.) (players are still free to leave corp.)wardeccing alliances cannot have other corps enter their alliance for the duration of their wardec.accommodation for isk warfare. if a corp can pay to start a war, the opposing corp should be able to pay to avoid the war, but that cost should be expensive. it should be expensive to avoid shoot-em ups (since this is primarily a shoot-em-up game). if it costs x amount to start a war, it should cost triple the amount to end it. once bribed, the corp cannot be wardecced again by the same corp for two (or more) days.just a simple set of rules are all that are required. simple rules are harder to game and exploit."
"don't even know where to start this - this would easily fill the schedule of several summits.personally, i have favourites:- bounty system- insurance- factional warfare- pi"
"nullsec industry. namely the fact that mining and building stuff localy is orders of magnitude slower, more expensive, time-consuming and less efficient than simply importing everything from jita. the efficienty, speed, and scaleability of 0.0 industry needs to be multiplied many times to be able to compete with the thousands of industrialists in highsec. until that happens, there will be very little reasons to do any industry at all in 0.0, other than \"because i like it\".(disclaimer: i live in pure blind. if the situation is different on the furthest edges of the universe, then i don't know much about it.)in my opinion this is right now amongst the biggest gaping chest wounds of eve."
"please discuss issues related to this session in this thread. we look forward to your comments and suggestions."
"things should be about risk vs reward in this game.2 main issues i always have a beef with....#1why would i want to go to ls or null to do a mission when my hs mission pays enough / gives me a tonne of loot.i will never go to ls or null with my mission running as i make enough isk vs no risk in hs.#2hs missions provide lp + bounty + loot + salvagethis should not be the case, you are flooding the market with loot / or refined loot (minerals)... thats a miners / industrialist toons job.a mission should only ever provide at most lp + bounty + salvage.let the items be built by players for profit. that is my biggest beef about game balance. too much is given to missioners that takes away from industrialists..."
"low sec need to be more rewarding given it's risk.btw i don't see any mention of low sec on any of the subjects... you won't talk about it at all ? or it is limited to fw ?"
"agreed on risk vs. reward.as a rule, avoid nerfing wherever possible. you will always face a huge threadnaught doing so, as you are taking stuff away from people. if one element is to advantageous, introduce a counter (a new item, or an improved version of an old one - without removing the old one, mind, just letting it become obsolete) wherever possible, instead. that's how these things work in real life, and i don't see why they shouldn't in new eden."
"that's dumb.the reason that things work differently in real life is that it's, you know, real life. during the cold war when it became clear that humanity just might annihilate itself, there was no dev available to nerf the laws of nuclear physics and make superpowers develop more balanced and interesting defence spending priorities rather than ever-bigger and more gruesomely effective nukes. in eve we can and should go back and revert things that don't work or which work too well, despite the shrieking and rage from bandwagoners.an endless cycle of broken ships followed by counters and counter-counters and counter-counter-counters just makes for a tedious one-dimensional grind of chasing the latest fotm."
"please discuss issues related to this session in this thread. we look forward to your comments and suggestions."
"in general, security needs to be overhauled totally.if you look at the way security is now, it is made so someone has the option of theiving or stealing from you. currently you technically need to give too many rights to someone so they can 'do their job'.current rights is also unfair to an individual. as an individual must \"trust\" a corp with their own bpo's for research.-again - very easy for these to be stolen. my first solution to the above is a simple change.... any corp hanger ( the div tabs ) should be given 1 extra tab. a \"personal\" tab. only you can access it if its at an npc station. if its at an actaul pos, then the items can be accessed by admin as there would be no way to offline the hanger.by doing the above, an individual can go to the 'corp hanger' at an npc pos, and put his/her bpo's in there safely cause nobody can touch them. from here you can do research at the pos remotely. your years of investing into your own bpo's that you purchased with your own isk is safe!.you ever wonder why you have so many 1 man corps or tiny corps around - its so none of their years worth of investments don't get stolen."
"i'm not sure about the exact proposed nerfs, but i tend to agree that the drake and to a lesser extent the cane are overpowered.if you do this for balancing, you also have to nerf command t3's."
"nighthawk should always be the ferox hull, see enough drakes as it is"
"i think that these nerfs are a little bit too steep. i'd much rather the tier 2 bc be treated as the benchmark that the entire class strive for. this would mean an increase to tier 1 bc performance with a possible increase to production cost to keep things balanced. i also believe that field commands should be re-evaluated and slightly improved as the introduction of tier 2 bcs and tech 3 cruisers has more or less removed any advantage these ships once had. at the very least field and fleet command ships should be given the hp buff that was applied to bc hulls back in 2006ish, for some reason this hp buff was missed on the t2 ships.as for changing the field command ships models to tier 2 bcs... why is it needed?"
"whilst i am pleased the thread is getting some attention, this is about simply changing the models of field command ships to tier ii bruiser models. by all means start a thread about bruiser balancing if you think they need it."
"there is no need at all.however i think they would look very good and it would create a very clear distinction between the field and fleet variants."
"please discuss issues related to this session in this thread. we look forward to your comments and suggestions."
"fix forums."
"the search engine need more stuff.firs thing being checkbox on forum choice, so we can select more than one without selecting allwould also like the same for the dev posts ; i don't care about their post on russians and germans given i don't understand what they are saying."
"this.including but not exclusive to : we were ganked.... sorry an error occurred in evegate.... animated smilies etc etcdestination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"apparently i've not paid attention to the big issues in eve at the moment. who or what is a web cell? and why are you going to talk about it (waste time?) in iceland?"
"hummm...so much for listening to the customer"
"booster mechanics proposalboosters should move further from a % chance of negative effects as the main negative effect towards a gradual and increasing dependancy on the use of the drug.although they should keep a % chance of bad effects, the current % chance should be reduced by 50% to 0.15%. this would allow the skills pertaining to boosters to stay unchanged.boosters by their nature boost certain performance aspects of your characters pvp skills. creating a dependancy mechanic from this is as easy as incurring a small but cumulative persistent penalty on the same areas that the booster gives bonuses to.that way consistent long term use means that a character carries a persistent incurred penalty to the areas the booster would normally affect. the character would eventually consume boosters to negate this incurred cumulative penalty, thereby creating a dependancy. that dependancy would drive use of stronger drugs for performance enhancement incentivising the higher tiers of booster use.even at the highest level of booster use when performance enhancing effects are totally negated, drug use will continue purely to negate the persistent negative effects.the addictive nature of boosters would allow for ultra rare items equivalent to detoxification medicines, or npc services akin to a drug rehabilitation course. the latter of these would only be available in high security space and would restrict players to staying docked for a set period of days to complete a rehabilitation course. detoxification medicines would not nearly be as effective as a rehabilitation course but would be available through players seeding markets in low and null security space.drug usageapproximating recreational use vs a strong addictive use of a drug is vital to getting balancing correct. these are my approximations and are subject to change depending on feedback.typically: less than 3 per week would be considered recreational ( < 156 pa ) between 3 and 6 per week would be considered consistent ( 156 > < 312 pa ) more than 6 per week would be considered excessive ( 312 > pa ) the approximate values 150, 300 and 500 will be used in calculations to approximate usage levels and simplify calculations.overview of current booster strengths:current strengths:synth - 5% (proposed change - 5%) standard - 20% (proposed change - 10%) improved - 25% (proposed change - 20%) strong - 30% (proposed change - 30%) proposed cumulative negative effect per use (%):synth - 0.01% - cumulative effect after 150 uses - 1.5% ; 500 uses - 5% standard - 0.02% - cumulative effect after 150 uses - 3% ; 500 uses - 10% improved - 0.04% - cumulative effect after 150 uses - 6% ; 500 uses - 20% strong - 0.06% - cumulative effect after 150 uses - 9% ; 500 uses - 30% recreational use of a synth booster would in 150 uses negate only 1.5% of the bonus it gives, where as excessive use of a booster will negate all its bonus after 500 uses. a pilot would after such use be less effective without boosters in the area that booster would enhance.with the boosters effectiveness practically halved in 6 months, users would increasingly look to using a higher strength to achieve/excel the previously achieved enhancement.skills could negate the negative effects as much as 25%racial immunity could also reduce the negative effects of some boosters by 25%implants could negate the negative effects as much as 5%maximum cumulative immunity to boosters negative effects would be 55%treatmentsthe addictive nature of boosters would allow for ultra rare items equivalent to detoxification medicines, or npc services akin to a drug rehabilitation course.this can either be bought off the market and created by players out of ultra rare materials, or an aurum or isk based in-station service where you enroll your character into drug rehabilitation for <U+FFFD>x<U+FFFD> period of days for a percentage reduction in accumulated booster effects. this percentage should be limited to a maximum of 50% per session, with sessions lasting up to 5 days. during these days you<U+FFFD>ll be unable to undock but you can partake in all the station amenities and normal communications.the severity of a characters accumulated negative effects of boosters should only be viewable in stations with medical services and should come under a new tab <U+FFFD>bloodwork<U+FFFD>.the idea that if u do take a booster, you<U+FFFD>re never truely clean should be encouraged.smuggling and flying under the influencedrug use should be controlled in high security space both by npc customs officers performing random cargo scan screenings but also stop and search drug intoxication screenings.these intoxication screenings would occur at a much lower chance rate compared to cargo scans but would immobilise a characters ship for a small period of time on gate when jumping into a 0.7 or higher system.if found to be under the effects of boosters a player would be asked to relinquish their ship or if not in charge of a ship, pay a fine. either option would possibly incur a standings hit. relinquishing your ship would allow social skills to positively affect the chance that you<U+FFFD>d gain your ship back at a station in system without incurring a fine and reduce any standing hit. the characters ship would not be available until the booster has worn off.npc customs drug inspection ships doing the tackling on gate would be relatively weak allowing a possibility for characters to remove the tackling ship and escape. this course of action would cause global criminal status, a significant standings hit and characters doing so would become a temporary enemy of the npc faction they aggressed.so what do u think guys??? :) feedback always appreciated!"
"too complex for my taste. i always think simple = better."
"oh christ even more tears on this why dont we remove everything except a ibis and a civi railgun from the game so you wingers have nothing to complain about"
"dont worry grazer, he's a goon... just tell im that if he wants something simple that u can always direct him to his mothers house.eve is eve, not pong."
"i wanted to try to issue an unofficial thank you to ccp for the effort you've put into reconnecting with the player base. its a step few other companies would have attempted. the apologies and efforts have been unprecedented in this industry. you've backed up the words with practical actions that took an evident investment of time and money. lots of people swallowed thier pride and put the community before themselves. the new winter expansion, though unrelased, is very player experience oriented and takes into consideration the day to day things that will really affect the enjoyment of the game. it focuses on the existing players rather than new ones.i would love to speak for the rest of the community but even just for myself i wanted to thank you for all the efforts.hopefully if anyone agrees they will sign this post."
"the idea have been around for a while.one of the idea to fix moon mining would be to allow people to mine a bit of moon goo somewhere.here's my version of it : i would propose a new gravimetric site, that would allow that, but would also offer something that mining don't know : danger.these new grav sites would appear everywhere, but would of course have different minerals, and different difficulties depending on the type of system they are inthe specificity of these sites, outside being able to mine moon goo, would be that the comet itself would be a danger ; * some fragment could break away from the comet, and be thrown to a random guy being here.you would have to move out of his way, for it to be reduced in dust before reaching you (a bit like a missile that you avoid by being outise his range), or by asking your fleetmates to destroy it with their guns.* some high end comets would also have some dangerous gas, that would damage your ships, like it can happen on some situation currentlyanother specificity of this site would be that it would be moving, and would not be static, it's a comet after all.in fact, the comet would be moving very slowly at first, but when people begin mining it, it speed would raise more and more.* the goal would be to force people to fit speed modules, and instead of a level of depletion, it would be the speed that would make the comet unminnable ; when you can't orbit it anymore cause it's too fast it would be the end.* that would also mean that if you ask your buddies to come mines at the same time as you, you could extract way more minerals before the comet is too quickthis way you would have 2 reason for teamplay :* too mine more before it's too late* to protect you from debris and gas"
"ok...now that i understand the idea fully i am going to say no. it is not a bad idea...but i don't think it is the right idea. ecm does need some work and tweaking but i don't think doing so using modules that have absolutely nothing to do with the issue is the right way to go about it."
"it's always lovely to see how any interesting idea brings the trolls outpersonally, i think the idea as a certain amount of merit and represents a logical evolution in the same way that a current barge represents the logical evolution of the mining laser besides, think of it as just one more new type of ship you can gank without any effort or skill to inflate your egosi think we can all agree that a greater variety of ships in game, even if it's as targets, is a good thing"
"aw comon. no quote? just an \"either way x\". not even saying you were wrong? you know you'd be all over this if you went home, tested it, and it turned out you couldn't use smart bombs in high sec.plus, the solution provided for smart bombs would be absolutely unworkable with your crap idea about exploding ships doing aoe damage. picture this: you are hauling your 10 years supply of plex in your interbus shuttle, just waiting for the autopilot to get to jita. you get to jita and decided to peruse all the great deals in local before docking up. then, suddenly, you explode, suicide ganked. in a fit of rage and spaghetti you go to the station and undock in your battle orca, with its hull tank and full set of 15 light battle drones. you then explode again, concorded. turns out your ships death aoe damage hit several other pilots, and your security status is below -5."
"i like this idea. and as a bonus - another dumb idea:so that ccp doesnt have to remake entire game mechanics, implement this as a module. call it something like \"warp field destabilizer\" or whatever. if this module is active and ship is destroyed by enemies or selfdestruct, then explosion happens, damage and radius based on the quality of the module and signature/mass/capacitor of the ship, or all three. if you have a bs, full of cap and probably equiped with those lame cap extender battaries no one uses, then your boom is bigger. but your enemies can evade the boom by draining you. and make it the same as interdiction/cyno/bombs/whatever. those modules cannot be activated in high sec, make this one the same.this would enable some version of \"fire ships\" in low/null sec space. but anyway, this is cool, but at the same time horrible idea. but... we have plenty of horrible ideas implemented in eve already. so why not?"
"looks like corp bookmarks is how it will be done. not something i had considered, but also doesn't sound too bad. i guess we'll see what happens."
"i think using drugs should just make characters less ambitious. -25% to their training time when using boosters.really i wish ccp would leave boosters as they are except allow people to take another booster if they don't like the negative effect(s) they received and therefore \"reroll\" the dice in exchange for isk.make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"boosters need a proper rework. ccp is rushing out a change to boosters as if they are one of the \"thousand little papercuts.\" they're not. they are a major feature that has simply been overlooked for a very long time.the current sisi changes are a rushed shitshow of a joke.they need to hold off on these changes and rethink this crap."
"meh, i studied animation once upon a time, so i know that a plastic torso is a trip to the uncanny valley. even though they added a breathing animation, neither male nor female torsos move quite right."
"i like your solution.. t3 bonus goes down to bc level but cruiser still can give bonus off-grid.. ehp buffed command sps have to stay on grid. thumbs up!"
"this seems such an easy fix. any chance that it will ccp?"
"the mechanics of wh space work very well - the things that *don't* work well in wh space are the same things that don't work well in k space:pos mechanics, bm's, t3 subsystem changes, those types of things.as far as i'm concerned, fix those (and corp bm's are a big fix!) and wh's are fine."
"yes fw does need small fixes, but it also needs damn big ones and in my mind needs to be given a topic of its own lest it get drowned in pos management or whateverseriously how much time are you guys anticipating dedicating to fw in december? 1 hour? if so please use that hour effectively and get some actual mechanics / game play changes agreed with a timeline.ccp knows what the issues are as they've been well, well documented before (and no, removing the navy from hi-sec is not one of them)edit:"
"all this!"
"static sig id's is an interesting one, not sure of the techncial details of why the sig id's change after dt but keeping them static until the sig actually expires would be frankly game changing and brilliant to both wh life and exploration in general.and bump for everything above especially t3 refitting at pos's and shield ships not coming out of an sma at a massive disadvantage to an armor ship."
"fw complex respawn timers. please dont have them reset.at the same time each day."
"updated signature id<U+FFFD>s should not change after dt the deadspace signature around wh<U+FFFD>s should be removed shields should be at 100% when boarding a new ship in the sma we should be able to restrict access to the sma by member allow us to swap subsystems in wh space sleepers should roam wh space (camp wh<U+FFFD>s, warp randomly into grav/ladar sites and maybe attack pos<U+FFFD>s) there should be a rare chance of ice grav site spawns in wh space remove the penalty to refining arrays in wh space add a ship that has the ability to hold a wh open past it<U+FFFD>s time limit (full idea upcoming)"
"bumping, because this idea is great, quite easy to implement, and it would greatly enhance the game in lowsec (but not only in lowsec though) :)"
"i like the general premise of truly unique ship hull designs...however i believe that the steep entry cost (1bill) just for an average frig psd up to 200bill for a bs psd is alittle \"pro\" sov aliance and not indicitive of the sand box nature of eve as a game.to pass a golden egg to one portion of eve would be counter productive to eve as a whole. maby you would consider a lower entry bar for this kind of game changing proposal.say? start in the 100s of millions up to billions. what im trying to say it that in eve people dont share outside of there little \"click\" of associate's. all that would happen is you would see uber fleets of ships belonging to only a small hand full of moon raping sov factions. they would be rarer than alliance torni ships"
"what, really?there are players, in hisec, who fly single ships that cost more then a billion. as corporations, they can deploy towers, and invest in things like tech 2 bpos, which cost much more then that. hell, tech 1 blueprints cost much more then that. i don't think it's at all unreasonable to have those figures where they are."
"this is pretty much my view as well.large sov holding alliances would benefit the most from things like this. don't think they need anymore help in wiping out smaller entities.as as example, look at who holds most of npc null space right now. how would you expect anyone else to get anything from these mission areas when they can't even get past the front door, metaphorically speaking."
"+1 i just want more ships and more varieties of ships. really don't care how."
"bump"
"its always puzzled me why ccp chose to sell vanity items directly in the nex store. it would have been much more fitting to the eve universe to sell aur only materials and blueprints (that could then be traded for isk) which could be used by researchers and manufacturers.so instead of buying a dress you can buy a blueprint for the dress, research it and offer to produce for people. or buy the materials yourself and sell the dresses on the market.instead of buying a custom ship logo you buy a blueprint and some paint and produce a ship logo kit that other people can apply.price it so that a 1 run bpc and the materials is the same price as the current vanity item and optionally sell a bpo for way more.this way you can maintain the same microtransaction structure without completely removing the economic and industrial mechanics that eve does so well."
"cancel them complitly no microtransation in eve. dont tuch our plexes they allready very expensive."
"mt only for vanity items ... ship skins, concord billboards, snowball launchers etc. ...be creative ccp"
"not on the topic but just to explain something;aur exists for a simple reason it allows ccp to monitor how much plex gets converted and by extension how many gtc's are purchased for the purpose of vanity items.if it didn't exist they'd have no way to monitor the vanity & subscription revenue streams separately. so there's a valid real world reason for the secondary currency. regardless of what my or our opinions on micro transactions are aur has a valid reason for existing as long as nex store exists."
"mt's for vanity items only.if someone has too much cash and wants to buy monocles then that is between them and their bank manager."
"so let them buy plex and sell for isk and use that isk to buy expensive things in game that other players discover, harvest, manufacture and market. don't short-circuit the player economy in this game by allowing cash store nex microtransactions to strip away content opportunity from eve."
"this.mt has been debated to death, close the book on it once and for all."
"omg i just agreed with someone from goonswarm. so, where are those riders in the sky?that said, if ccp went about it the right way, mt *could* heavy emphasis* be a good thing, but they are not. the thing they really need to do is get the players involved in the creation of vanity items."
"institute scaling costs for manufactuing and research slots in stations, like office rental.fix the booster bpc/gas supply issues before futzing with what they do.understand, really understand what regions (high, low, null, drone, wspace) are net importers and exporters of various commodity types (t1 ships/t2 modules/lowend/highend minerals etc) so a clearer understanding of whats actually happening can be used to predict more accurately the impact of changes you want to make.btw its ok that highsec can \"produce everything\" as long as its also less profitable in line with risk."
"eve needs consumables - some relatively inelastic demand items that impact pve to pvp that scale up with ship size and player age. examples are - fuel for mwd and abs, charges for armour reppers and shied boosters (no not cap charges - think more along the lines of ammo for active modules) use minerals in ship repair and not just isk, but keep current isk costs.eve needs new raw materials (minerals et al) to be used up in t1 to tn construction, materials that can't be found in the same places as current materials - more time needs to be consumed in resource gathering versus isk gathering - don't make it more boring or a time sink so much as simply add additional requirements for existing things. create more demands upon time by adding new raw materials to the landscape and place them in locations other than existing materials.add hungry mouths to some of the planets, barren and terrain planets can have people that want to be feed. the other planets can have robots that need repair. people eat food, robots eat minerals.start giving us some info on the dust/eve economic dependencies, got lots of brains in your player base that are willing to help with the ideas. granted lots of ignorant trolls and clowns too, but the good ideas speak for them selves.there was a dev sponsored/authored thread a few years ago about player suggestions/improvements to the market interface - whatever happened to that?stocks, bonds, etc etc!necessity is the plea for every infringement of human freedom. it is the argument of tyrants; it is the creed of slaves. - william pitt"
"decrease isk faucet, increase isk sinks.isk faucet:-rat bounty. especially pure liquid isk faucets like sanctums, that don't come along with lp shop isk sink as counterbalance.-insurance. increase price or nerf payout further. it's isk creation, by method of bot produced minerals.isk sink:-lp shops. remove tag trade in, drastically increase isk trade in.-sov + office bills. they're too low. entities that pay them can afford much higher bills.-wardecs. 2 mil isk is a joke. rise it to 2 bil, and you have serious isk sink."
"how about we keep everything the same? but, raise prices on items like oh, say...plex."
"we need more scarcity :)for example, further restrictions to availability of ores to increase the contrast between minmatar vs amarr space, 0.9 vs 0.5. another would be restricting npc lp stores to the regions claimed by the particular npc corp's empire. thus you wouldn't buy republic fleet shield extenders from an rss station deep in amarr territory.don't just include material scarcity: encourage scarcity of services and supplies too. restrict the flow of traffic through stargates, allow stargates to be upgraded through the use of either anchorables like sbus (two varieties - one which enhances weight-per-jump and/or weight-per-hour, the other diminishes weight-per-jump and/or weight-per-hour) to allow e.g.: faction militias to engage in economic warfare by e.g.: disabling all the gate enhancers between jita and the surrounding systems.but those are just my two soap boxes i like to push at any opportunity. not really related to any existing problems in the economy (apart from the severe deflation due to ease of supply)."
"^take stuff that works, and break them."
"mining in particular needs some love. drone poo needs to burn in hell and let mining be the only source of minerals. death to meta 0 drops and don't let meta items be reprocessed except into scrap metal."
"none of the csm needs any excuse to hug ccp punkturis. she is so incredibly huggable that she's taken to wearing a barbed-wire sweater to fend off random huggers."
"- eve evolved: the new player experience- eve evolved: the new player experience, part 2"
"the art session is not about the final product, it's about the process. csm needs a better understanding of the process and the constraints the art department operates under, because it is often a bottleneck that affects everything else.for example, everyone wants the dead horse pos, but art may be a bottleneck that prevents or delays that. by having a better understanding of the constraints, csm feedback about other aspects of the game can be improved, and we can also give art some input about prioritization.for example, if we'd been asked about the new turrets, we'd probably have said \"gee, that's nice, but other things have a higher priority, since the turrets are eye-candy\""
"change field command ships to tier ii bruiser models. no mechanics reason. it will just look good.see this thread for details."
"animated realtime camera view for locked targets instead of static image, assuming this doesnt ruin usability. also stop making all ui elements rectangles and more like movie os.eve should look more like minority report and less like windows 3.1also, inb4 rage about removing locked pinned windows."
"so you want a ui that looks cool but is physically uncomfortable to use for more than 30 minutes at a time?"
"this is the pretty-much final agenda, some items requested by ccp, some by csm, but most are stuff that everyone wanted to talk about."
"make voting mandatory... like creating a portrait. can't log into game until you vote."
"same problem as giving away aurum above:"
"\"oh god, what's this? i can't play my game until i pres butan? just show me a butan and i will pres i need my ice mining fix!\"yep. this suggestion won't help, no matter how many times guys like you put this forward."
"what you're afraid of is just the opposite - that the ice miners would actually read the short description and run down goon candidate."
"how would a bot know who to vote for?"
"you do realize that bots have evolved quite a bit from the old days. the trick is to leave them in irc channels for a while so they start to learn english and then have them listen in say, minmater channel here in game, and pretty soon you'll have them wandering around mining ice and spouting 'lol l2p noob!' 'can i haz yur stuff?' and posting their considered opinions on how awesome goonswarm is in the forums."
"you missed all the whine regarding 500mil plex a few days ago.that's why you have 3 toons per account. to have them somewhere to inject plex to the account."
"no i have 2 toons on 2 accounts.as i said, i don't plex and don't intend to. but if i click on one toon and buy a plex and can't use it on my other toon on the other account i'd be peed.i should not be forced to travel 30 jumps with the 'purchasing' toon \"just because\"."
"weak excuse. make a 3rd toon in empire, biomass it afterwards."
"this would have the side effect of greatly reducing liquidity in the plex market."
"as said above this would be a significant disadvantage for people who don't have access to market hubs. atm i can keep 1 alt on one account in the forge and buy plex for all my accounts."
"yes, keep one alt out of 3 per account in forge for all your plex needs on that account. face it, the \"significant disadvantage\" is for market players..."
"you can add your plex to game time remotely from assets window no matter where it is.in other words it is enough, if one of the characters in an account goes to corner of any region where plex is available in market. this has to be done only once in a month given that you buy only one plex at the time.sellers are still free to value their plex as they want and modify/cancel the sell orders.buyers are still free to set up buy orders or choose the place they buy their plex from.only real difference would be that when you do buy a plex, you commit to add it to your game time right away or later in the future. you will be unable to resell or redistribute that game time to anyone else or play market games with it."
"why is this desirable?"
"i think we should artificially raise inflation on plex pricing...oh, wait."
"because it is game time, not scourge missile."
"^this. wild fluctuations in plex prices = unstable player base = bad for ccp's bottom line."
"is it my understanding from the above posts that if i wanted to make money on veldspar,i would buy a billion dollars worth of veldspar,wait a few daysand then sell onto the market for a tad higher.however,it will not be permitted to buy 10 plexes - hold them till the prices goes up and then sell them?sandbox is a sandbox - if you want to buy plex - you should have to pay market prices.even if there is some yahoo stocking up on all of them.if i want to hold onto my melted nanoribbons for a month to make a profit - thats my choice, and the same choice ( my choice ) should be there to gobble up plex's and sell them whenever i want to sell them.to complain that an item is too expensive in eve ( even if it is plex or any other type of item ) defeats the purpose of the sandbox idea.i do not agree with the above suggestions ( if i am reading them correctly ) - as you are removing the 'free market' from the game. the very thing that makes the game.what next - robotics / coolant / arkonor ?"
"the whole point of plex is that it is a tradable item which the market will set a price for. the \"bound to account on isk purchase\" item is the gtc. once plex were introduced, the prices of plex and gtc increased: whether this was due to a general increase in the consumption of plex due to the ease of purchase, or due entirely to market manipulation is irrelevant.it might be worth a statement from dr. eyjog about whether the introduction of plex increased the number of people buying game time with isk. perhaps a re-issue of the plex devblog, showing purchase/use of plex and gtc from about three months before plex were introduced? even at the time of that devblog, plex usage was increasing linearly over time.the long term trending of plex is due to demand, not manipulation.probe launchers are not scourge missiles either: they have non-combat utility. shuttles have non-combat utility. many skill books have no utility in combat. plex are the same: they have non-combat utility, the closest eve has to a purely speculative trade item."
"paranoid?it doesn't remove free market. it removes ability to hold years of unused game time in single account just to make less game time available for others. it also removes huge problem from ccp when they can actually have solid statistics about accounts and amount of available game time binded to them. makes future financial planning much easier. besides... you can not craft/collect game time in the sandbox so the item as a whole doesn't belong into sandbox. playing market games with such item can not be justified by any reasons related to \"free sandbox environment\".bind it to account when it is bought from in game market or traded between 2 accounts by any other means and the plex can properly serve it's purpose - and only the purpose - which it was originally made to fill."
"plex is gametime. valdspar is valdspar. wild fluctuations in valdspar price =/= unstable player base, which wrecks havoc on mmo. learn the difference."
"holding plex in a hangar does not diminish the supply of plex. check the plex devblog.the purpose that plex was originally made to fill was to be a market-tradable item to allow the market to decide the value of game time. the format that you are suggesting is exactly the original gtc model: trade once on the forums, game time is automatically applied to the account that paid isk for the code.any complaint about plex being too expensive for some individual to buy in order to play for free is irrelevant. the value of plex is determined by the people who have the spare isk lying around to be able to afford to throw it away on 30 days of game time. this is a subscription based game: getting to play for \"free\" by spending in-game currency is a perk enjoyed by the in-game rich.those of you trying to fund game time by buying plex with isk are directly competing with people who play the game to make the isk to buy the plex to play the game (the \"play to pay\" crowd). if you are having trouble raising the isk to buy a plex each month, check out the making isk guide for some ideas. in the meantime acknowledge that if you aren't committing your gaming time to making isk, you are falling further behind the plex affordability curve.plex do not exist to allow you to buy game time with an amount of isk that you can afford."
"i can tell you from first- and second-hand experience that fluctuations in plex prices are met by players finding more isk to buy those plexes with. in some rare cases, people will let alts go dark for a month while they grind up the isk to buy that next plex. in the meantime, plex sales and consumption continue to rise steadily as more people realise what a challenging game the play-to-pay lifecycle is.a rise in the price of plex from 300m isk to 500m isk simply means a couple of extra hours of incursion time are spent paying for game time, so the acquisition of shiny ships has to slow down a little (after buying the nightmare this week, i might have to wait an extra week before i can buy a nightmare for the alt too - she won't be able to fly it for a month anyway, so no great loss there).if the value of a plex is a significant proportion of your regular in game income, you are playing to pay with some other activities on the side. you are directly competing for plex with people whose main goal in eve is playing to pay.to put it into perspective: the mission-ganker who manages to loot half a dozen officer modules per month is not playing to pay <U+FFFD> they are rolling in isk, and trading isk for game time is a perk. the low sec pirate who resorts to mining or incursion running in order to raise the isk to pay for plex is playing to pay."
"we don't really have info on this either, this session is supposed to change that.csm 7 secretary csm 6 alternate delegate @two_step_eve on twitter my blog"
"true, there's no information on their plans yet. however, if their plans are not at least as good as this:i suggest that you tell them to scrap their plans entirely, and do that instead."
"put moon-goo in pi, and ppl will fight over them. otherwise there's no point."
"i'm quite looking forward to discussing with my fleet why the enemy would be jamming our sensors <U+FFFD> then coming to the realisation that they must have known we were coming <U+FFFD> \"it's a trap!\" :) all this while my dust bunnies will be engaging in high-speed vehicle chases on the forest moon of f-9f6q ix prior to disabling the shield generator.stick that in your sw:tor pipe and smoke it!"
"the link needs to be pretty strong for it to be anything other than a short-lived gimmick. just saying 'you can disrupt hostile pi' isn't going to cut it, especially with the current form of pi which is an exercise in masochism and where hostile entities disrupting my ability to perform it would be an act of mercy.sure, i want to be able to nuke dust players from orbit, and be doomsdayed by their planetary defence lasers in return, but lets go beyond that. i want the dust economy and the eve economy to be essentially the same thing, with the same currency, market windows and logistics considerations, where the local sell order i'm looking at could have been set up by a dust player on their ps3 or an eve player on their pc. i want to be able to manipulate the market price of neural-bonded assault rifles and hybrid demolition charges and attack skimmers in jita like i can with spaceships and modules today. i want new resources in space that are harvested by eve players and used to make dust items, and new resources on planets that are harvested by dust teams to make new space items. i want to be able to reinforce a pos or offline a cyno jammer or delay my enemy's manufacturing jobs by infiltrating their space in a black-ops battleship and deploying dust teams to carry out sabotage missions.ccp are committed to delivering dust now, so run with it and deliver properly."
"more incentive for taking and holding sov. more system upgrades. perhaps upgrades exclusive to each other so you either have to choose one, or conquer another system.incentives for actually populating the systems. space in 0.0 shoudn't be a bunch of station systems with 100 people at any moment and 50 systems empty 23/7. ideally this should compact the population of existing large alliances and in turn make room for new ones. the anomaly nerf was a step in the completely opposite direction.more opportunities for individuals to do things when there's nothing going on on a corp/alliance scale. anomalies shouldn't be the only way for an individual to make decent income.less tedious structure grinding to capture space after the original owners have failcascaded long ago."
"should be several things to discourage power blocks and power projection.also.../me waves to noobcake"
"by f.ex making sov easier to take and to lose, so repeating it alliance's 2-3 month of \"we're dead guys, but we still have our sov\" is going to be difficult since even smallish corps/alliances can take over a system if they're dedicated enough?"
"1. ccp atleast need alow to anchore more than one station in system for players. 2. increase all outpost capacity in his bonuses:2. 1. amaar station eedto have atbase atleast 50 manufucturing slots and each upgrade makes more them.2.2 minmatar station to ned more base refining procentage and more slots like 10 at start, and atleast 10 office slots.2.3 gallente station need more office slots in base stats and manufucturing slots 30 offices at start and 20 manufucturing slots.2.4 caldari station too need increase of office slot count manufucturing slot count science slot count.resureces:veldspar in 0.0 need some love and low end resure4ces by increasing reprocesing outcomes form thos types off ores (problem how to separete with is mined in high sec with in 0.0) i tink by creating new ore type with is only in 0.0 with holds all low end minerals. sanctum count need to be increased in systems and balances income form it that its more then incursion income in 1 hour. i tink each system need to have atleast 2 sanctums, if ccp wish keep that imapct from system sec status keep it, by increasing sanctum count in beter systems, and by deacreasing usles anomaly count.i hade some more but for start wil be inaf this.p.s. english its not my native language and i lerned it in eve so sorry about grammar:0"
"structure grinding needs to be removed or re-engineered from the ground up as it's a pointless time sink that does a great deal to put players off null.is there a point to sov anymore? i understand those with the power, skills and money to do moon mining and build super caps gain advantages from it but since the anomaly nerf does anyone else? there needs to be a point to sov for those of us at ground level, small scale objectives that encourage small gang effort as well as larger scale participation not only on the combat but the industry front.if players can build and deploy a station they should also be able to watch them burn."
"some kind of mechanic to make sov in surrounding systems affect how easy it is to drop the sov in a system? so it makes sense to attack multiple systems at once, rather than just the one? high sov indexes in adjacent systems makes it harder, low indexes makes it easier. or possibly have it tied to the change in adjacent sov indexes. so if you have 5 systems around you dropping, you drop faster."
"what do we post about what? what we think of them?"
"i agree that the wardec system should be looked at with a critical eye. i agree that paying your way out of a wardec should be the harder/more expensive option than fighting. however, this does not address the reason the \"dec shield\" originally came to be: junk wardecs. pre-\"dec shield\", eve uni received numerous wardecs where the aggressing party (the one that initiated the wardec) refused to come out and fight, instead staying docked up. this issue should be addressed explicitly (perhaps an isk penalty to the aggressors if they refuse to engage in combat?). with this, other wardec evasion tactics should be illegal. being able to operate with basically minimal risk in hisec (your ship is not cost-effective to suicide gank) yet still get good, no, great (as in top-end or nearly so) rewards from l4s and incursions is not what this game is about. as a possible system, i'd suggest making the declaring party put up a sum of isk (with a set minimum value) that either: will be refunded to them at the end of the campaign (if combat takes place) is paid by the targeted party to end the wardec (danegeld, basically) or is charged to the declaring party (as a penalty) if no combat (kills and/or losses) results."
"speaking as someone who lives out on the furthest edge of the universe... even though we do manufacture a lot of stuff locally, our go-to solution for getting most of the things we have isn't to improve the manufacturing chain and focus on making more things better, it's to focus on our logistical chain and figure out ways to get to and from jita more easily.that's kind of sad, really, and speaks volumes as to the issues at hand here."
"i'm not advocating any specific changes, i'm just tired of gathering intel eventually deccing a corp and then having them drop the dec via a decshield immediately.i am also not saying people should be forced to fight, you want to dock up, dock up. e-uni's problem stems from their own rule of not allowing their pilots to undock during war except in an organized fleet. if the aggressors never undock into your frigate blob i understand that's annoying, but eve uni told eve unis pilots they can't do anything but sit in that blob on that station during war, you really can't blame fail deccers for your own policies. i can't buy anything because i forbade myself to spend resources! i blame it on the shopkeepers! anyway their issue isn't caused by game mechanics it's caused by them.also isk is a bad motivator to encourage/discourage anything in eve. if i put up a post on brrc forums saying we need x amount of isk to wardec y we'd prolly have it donated within 48 hours even if we're talking billions.basically stuff needs to resolved in such a way that wardecs either stick (except when you disband the corp/alliance) or there is a clear set of rules and conditions under which a wardec becomes invalidated. i don't really see a surrender system working either, while it would work for mercs and maybe hi-sec extortionist type wardeccers it will do nothing to discourage griefers (not that i actually think griefing should be discouraged at all mind you)."
"bounty hunting please. more career opportunities and possibly even applicable to the lowsec sandbox."
"gates - get rid of themsmugglingbounty huntingcorp roles/permissions - granularity and flexibilitypos - dead horsenecessity is the plea for every infringement of human freedom. it is the argument of tyrants; it is the creed of slaves. - william pitt"
"+1although i agree with the statement that risk/reward needs assessing, and that nerfing any high sec methods for making profit would fail due to \"zomg rage\" threads. as it stands, high sec is more profitable than low sec (possibly not so for null), this "
"i tink personaly need remove from isions loot or make it not reprocesable. aderways miners dont have job eny more not in high, not in low, not in 0.0. ader ting its wht to do with drone lands then they to give minerals.i tink need to chenge drone po into data libery 9or namethen ader ways) how its by sleepers that thos they can sell to npc. there again its problem how corp can resive taxes then form thos liberys (probably by adresing if soem corp memebrs sels labery to npc his corp ressives tax from that sold item.actualy the same problem its with miners that corps not have eny tax from them att all only one hoo suports nof corps are ratters or mision runes that even not close fear."
"what?destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"i wil true get evenignthat soem one translatre it to normal english from my acient caldari."
"the security session is more about external security -- protecting your account, fighting botters and rmt, etc."
"but wie need ingame securety to that waits already very very long:("
"great area for improvement, and the technology is now ripe to implement something low cost and easy for everyone, that could also provide a much higher degree of security.the best idea i've seen lately, is the new mobile phone account validation function that has recently appeared for competing mmo's ... yeah, it may be patented or whatever already, but maybe a different design or licensing agreement could be arranged:- you install a \"validator\" app on your smartphone (iphone, windows phone, android)- you set your account to require phone validation ( let the account owner choose whether to require validation code upon any number of scenarios)- when prompted at login for the phone validation code, you have to go run the phone app, and it generates a temporary validation key based on phone hardware, time function, and some parameter stored on the server side unique to your login account (a parameter passed to the phone app from the server at initial phone app setup), etc., that will only work with your account.- input the phone validation code in addition to your normal userid and passwordthe scheme could include options for higher or lower security based on the desires of the user.the app does not require an active phone connection each time it is run, but only upon initial setup.this is similar to the old \"login dongle\" idea used by many high dollar or high security firewall validation systems, where, in addition to a userid and password, the server would present a temporary timebound encryption code to the user logging in, and the user would have to input the code into a small smart dongle device, and the device spits out a reply code that the user then inputs in reply to the server prompt .... but thanks to the prevalence of smartphones, dongles are no longer required!"
"uh... how does that help with anything? all it proves is that you have a smartphone, and not everyone does.more useful would be code to check to see if any of the known botting programs are currently running on your computer. if so, then your client will automatically flag your account as a suspected bot, allowing easier investigations into botting. or, of course, you could just automatically ban everyone who triggers that bot flag, but since it seems unlikely that you'd manage the feat without some false positives, it's better on the whole for there to be a bit of oversight."
"the keychain account authenticator thingies that were given out at last fanfest: what is happening with these?"
"heck yeah!i'd fly a t2 myrm just for the looks ... the t2 (and t1) brutix hull is simply ugly ... will never use it ... please do this!!"
"i'm strangely fine with that idea. i've been thinking of getting a nighthawk myself, but i don't like the ferox's hull. on the other hand, neither me nor my ceo like the hurricane's design, so there would probably come a sleipnir up for sale somewhere."
"supported on condition that the myrmidon hull becomes the eos and not the astarte."
"strong paradisiacal booster[insert witty description]booster duration 1,800,000 sbooster slot 3chance of side effect 0.4 %scan resolution penalty -30 %signature radius penalty -30 %targeting range penalty -30 %targetingmaxed locked targets -1sensor strength+100 %so there is a chance for the scan resolution, signature radius and targeting range if you have a bad reaction. there will always be the -1 to locked targets. i am sure some of you will say the 100% to sensor strength is too much, but i was just rage plugging in a number. in all honesty, it should be at or close to fitting an active eccm module in my opinion. the numbers are for a strong pill. i picked a slot 3 because the only other booster that can go there is for missile users and missile users have fof missiles to deal with being jammed.another thing to consider is aside from disruptors/scrams and webs; all other ew has a booster to help counter it except ecm.thoughts?"
"i do like this idea.i thought boosters were having their penalties removed in the next patch?edit: i see they have withdrawn the booster changes in crucible.destination skillqueue:- it's like assuming the lions will ignore you in the savannah, if you're small, fat and look helpless."
"fixed!!!"
"clicking the dev/gm badge should take you to the next dev/gm post. also clicking the badge on the previous page should take you to the first dev post. it's a pain to scroll through the posts to see if there's a new dev reply on longer threads and then notice that it was just a moved from somewhere post. i think i read somewhere that this was supposed to happen but something happened to it."
"not emptyquoting.\"we were ganked\"\"hey where did my post content go?\""
"bbcode in your rss feeds? srsly..."
"well well....to make me smile and contradict your comment... i will push forward and make this event happenthankyou ccpdear industrial oblitorator,thank you for contacting me and thank you very much for your interesting idea and this incredible engagement!sadly i cannot help you with that much at the moment, but i have forwarded this mail and your request to some more people here.especially at the moment, with the preparation for the crucible deployment at nov. 29th, my time is very strained. maybe you can work in the meanwhile a bit more on the details and how we, as community team, could be of more help.best regards,ccp phantomcommunity coordinator"
"1. give greater rewards for pvp combat i.e. more lp when you kill someone in the opposing faction.2. give lp rewards for taking over opposing faction's complexes (30k lp divided between fleet members).3. stop opposing faction members from docking in your stations.*flame proof suit on*"
"there's a csm thread here:"
"see the status of your drones in drone hangar. would be nice to see how healty my little fellows are, so that i can decide to launch not the damaged one.would love to see some ice belts in wh space. not unlimited for sure. but as an sig with ammount of x."
"one idea could be to introduce a \"personal hangar array\". this array is different to the cha simply in that it provides an \"infinite\" number of hangar divisions unique to the capsuleer viewing the content, with only one access rule. directors and pos operators would be able to access all items in a pha, and get an inventory of who is storing stuff in the pha. the pha would be able to store assembled ships alongside other items, and provide a fitting service.the pha would have one fixed volume. everyone using the pha would see the same \"volume used\" indicator, so everyone knows just how much they can shove into the pha."
"trebor, two step, please go though hans jagerblitzen's thread on fw improvements carefully, so that there is no wasted effort on fw."
"can we get ice mining sites in wormholes? i think it was an over-sight."
"i think the pos overhaul (i think i'm refering to the modular pos idea...) would pretty much be buffing wh stuff.t3 fitting at possindividualized hangarsbetter management of access to hangars/towers themselves, etcfw stuff:remove the after dt shuffle, replace with more regular spawning mechanics of plexesincentives for occupancy"
"will do.wrt ice in wh's, this is by design, to prevent wh's from being self-sufficient.super chair: i agree in general with these ideas."
"fixed that part for you.it's not like there isn't alot of other \"large volume\" crap we are forced to haul in using itty 5's through unfriendly systems ? c5 & c6 wh's occasionally get highsec access to push a freigher load worth of crap through but the rest of us gets to slowboat iterons around for hours on end.not fun, and it would hardly be gamebreaking for w-space to get their own ice. i mean even the plebes in highsec have it for christ sake."
"that doesn't make sence anymore... lets say an entire corp lives in a c5. these guys are not going into know space everyday interacting with the rest of the eve community. in actual fact they hardly ever go to k space. once in a while they will need to take their loot to sell in hs, and when they do they will bring the ice fuel in with them. this doesn't require the participation of each member - just a small team.please see my suggestion on page one."
"i would like to add one more thing to the list here that has to do not only with wh's but also with hs and ls and null sec.so anywhere in the eve universe...if a pos is anchored but offlined, any player should have the ability to unanchor it.-that and any structure that goes with it.lets start cleaning up all those \"pos position holders\" out there that are not running and allow someone to make profit for the cleanup.as well, if you pos bash a pos anywhere - why do you need to destroy everything to get at the items. why cannot you use the codebreaker mod or something to crack the safe and get at the goodies and the structure.too many wh's have dead pos - or \"backup\" pos's. either a pos is online and is running, or is in stront mode...or its a dead pos and can be taken.to add to that, the same should apply to secure containers. any container anywhere in eve universe should be codebreaked to get at whats inside.its annoying to fly into an astroid belt in hs to see a billino secure containers... m."
"it doesn't make sense to me. why is it wrong to have wormhole self-sufficient on an equal level to null-sec? i hear nullsec has access to ice.does this make them too self-sufficient? then why not remove ice from null-sec then?my bottom line; i want to be self-sufficient. being forced to haul ice from known space is not fun."
"agreed. it should required the t2 code breaker and should take between 15 and 30 minutes to unanchor a offline pos."
"i'd suggest having an offline timer. so it has to be offline for a couple of days before you can steal it. stops a little qq (couldn't log in to refuel due to [legit reason]), without getting rid of the main reason."
"there is no legit reason to not have a months worth of fuel in your pos, other than death or tsunami."
"with poss, i agree they should be unanchorable.. sure use codebreakers or whatever, doesn't matter. but this also kickstarts salvaging into a profession. even those who don't want the moon or the pos can hack, scoop, and sell the tower.faction war needs more enemy elements. i've suggested before adding pirate factions and allowing corps to join those malitias. it also goes along with my proposal to have variable sec status on the empire borders inherent to the conflict between pirate and empire factions."
"good list right there. i'd increase (6) to not just some randomization in sleeper spawns but also in what a site actually yields in terms of radar/magneto cans, spacerocks or gas. makes it maybe a bit bigger than a little thing..shared corp bookmarks would have been on the list too if they had not been introduced for crucible. hooray for this.there was some talk about removing high-end ores from lower class wormhole gravimetric sites, this will probably resurface as well during this session?"
"iirc a concern at the time is that if wh's were self-sufficient, they would quickly be colonized by nullsec alliances and used as secure production facilities."
"ice in w-space doesn't count as a little thing, and it is not a bug, it is totally by design. without the need to haul stuff, there would be a lot less traffic in w-space, and ganking a hauler is often the start of a fun fight.csm 7 secretary csm 6 alternate delegate @two_step_eve on twitter my blog"
"which would be awesome if doable, but every time .. let me repeat that every time they have tried to fix a little thing in fw they have broken a whopping big thing. hell even when they fix things theoretically unrelated to fw something breaks ..fw is a great big mash-up of code from all over the place .. there is no small fixes available, the best you can do on that scale is tweaking but tweaks are neither wanted not needed .. the base mechanics are what people have been complaining about the past three years.the perfect solution for me is for ccp to pour everything they have into a rewrite of null sovereignty system and then applying a simplified and slightly modified version of said system to fw. should make for a much sturdier construct and goes a lot further towards making fw a taste of null warfare without forcing people out to null type deal which was one of the original intentions if i recall.in short: i second (or however high number, haven't read all posts) the motion to remove the \"little things\" sticker from fw."
"trebor, make it clear to them that they will be risking the future of their company if they go beyond vanity items and it would be by far the best of they left that topic alone till eve has started growing again."
"wait. where the **** did this word \"convenience\" come from, and when?we've gone from \"vanity\" related microtransactions, to \"convenience microtransactions\"?before this topic gets too far, ccp had damn well better step up and tell the players outright what they consider \"convenience\".faction ammo is \"convenient\" because it hits harder.faction modules are \"convenient\" because they increase damage/defense, etc.microtransactions are pretty damned basic for eve: avatar accessories only"
"i don't mind the microtransactions, as long as it remains vanity items.i would like to see ship custom paints - these would be very popular.it would be good to see some of the old trinkets that appeared on the old character customization screen. there were hair trinkets, wires, etc... it added a lot of character to the avatar."
"i too would like to see ship paint jobs and custom skins but i want them from exploration, from player led industry, from the faction loyalty point stores (from mission runners) and sold on the market for isk so that players can involve themselves in another service industry in the eve online sandbox. i do not see any valid reason for leeching gameplay content out to mt/nex cash shop. if you can see one then by all means make the argument. but remember ccp already have a form of mt income stream through plex for isk conversion and they already allow players to pay extra money for \"convenience\" by opening new accounts for multi boxing of everything from trade to logistics to cyno alts. these terms \"vanity/convenience\" are a smokescreen for removing content from the sandbox and taking things away from player industry in eve online. i want customization of spaceships, avatars, anything else you can think of. i don't want to spoil the player-led purety of the economic sandbox to get it. and neither should you."
"jade,i understand your argument and i agree with it, but the argument on ccp's side is that they need to monetize the game more. i'm not sure why or how valid this is, but that's what motivated the nex store.if the nex store didn't exist, the clothes would have been added to the normal customization screen and players could have used them without charges. custom ship paints are in between. i'm not sure where that would fit in the game.the in game industry has always been about manufacturing ships and modules of all sort. cosmetic items -could- be a part of industry, but it's never something i expected.as long as ccp doesn't make utility for the nex store or focus entirely on the nex store and forgo the game industry, then i'm fine with it."
"which was a terrible mistake that led to the fiascos of this summer and contributed to the unsub crisis. the message the player base gave to ccp was that nex (monetization) was a step we didn't want. and it doesn't answer the question i asked - why is it needed when plex for isk conversion already fulfills the need for extra income from players seeking convenience for rl cash. with respect it is something you should have expected because eve online is a premium cost subscription game. the \"hybrid\" model of subs + microtransactions for \"vanity/convenience\" is a bogus nickel and diming insult to the intelligence of eve gamers. as long as nex exists it represents a place where non integrated content can be injected into the game at cost to the integrity of the player-led economic sandbox. it needs to go."
"the \"original plan\" involved manufacturing clothes through some wis process, and have only blueprints available for aur. i agree that the current iteration is quite lacking in content.i still stand by my opinion that the nex store is not a mt shop. it's merely transfering one in-game item (plex) into an in-game currency (aur) into more in-game items (accessories). the only mt in eve is being able to buy a plex - which is freely available on the market. therefore all the in-game content is available to you without having to pay anything more than the subscription fee. as long as it stays this way, i am fine with it."
"i think the problem is that even though there are ways it could be done, ccp doesn't seem to know how to display restaint in it's exicution. to be fair, this isn't just ccp. other games have shown poor judgement when it comes to not selling power and ccp should not be thought of as different. the fact that this is still up for discussion in eve is a sign that they still don't understand player feedback or just how bad an idea this was. i don't see how it could be any clearer. for that reason ccp should just avoid another disaster and skip it. they have bigger problems with game-killing supercaps and crappy alliance/sov mechanics. those 2 things will kill this game if not addressed in a rdical fashion."
"remove the nex entirely, drop microstransactions entirely according to the will of the community and make all these items part of the player-produced market like any other item.make all clothing and hairstyles available to all races."
"yeah trebor, please don't forget to put that crowdsourcing thread result in front of the relevant people."
"even if then only vanity items that people can sell on market, but the plex->aur exchange; i wonder how much it affects pllex prices."
"vanity items only, preferably by integrating vanity item production into existing market structures. plex->aur->vanity bpo->market. cash comes into ccp, products enter market for capsuleers, market competition ensues. that model provides a single entry point for vanity enabling items, but allows the entire player base to benefit."
"i liked the idea of a plex for a remap.a lot of people freaked out about it, but all the people that did the math and worked it out showed it didn't really make a huge difference. besides, you still had to sit through the skill training either way, you just don't screw yourself for a year if you make a mistake. even if it was limited to one per month or something like that.i think it's important that nothing that you can get in mt for \"convenience\" takes the place of something a player could do for you. so no shipping things anywhere you want by interbus for an mt price or something like that.however, mt for a race/gender/facial structure change should be ok as well - as long as the name/corp history doesn't change."
"whose decision was it, to rename this thread, incidentally...?just because you 'haven't heard anything' about it, doesn't mean you should try to pre-emptively run a damage control action. they've kept you in the dark before on certain issues, and might be doing the same again... :tinfoil:so changing the name of a topic that ccp doubtless chose for good reason, could come across as a little disingenuous..i'd personally like you to obtain proper clarification from ccp, insofar as you're able, as to whether their chosen title was actually appropriate."
"since the topic of microtransactions is again on the agenda it is apparently again necessary to trumpet some opinions to ccp.i would think most if not all csm members would oppose microtransactions for non-vanity items. in fact, most eve players probably oppose microtransactions for non-vanity items. a significant chunk even oppose microtransactions in any way, shape or form.i for one do not mind the concept of mt for vanity. but this should be limited to vanity. ship logos would fit that category as well and will be possible soon due to technical changes already (being) rolled out.mt for the proverbial gold ammo or mt for convenience i can not support.if this session is about discussing possible products that could be sold within the concept of vanity-only, by all means go nuts but keep in mind the current price levels in the nex store are rather ridiculous, especially considering the lack of diversity it offers thusfar."
"ccp provided the initial name, and then realized that it might be misconstrued, and asked me to change the post.don't worry, if they suggest something we think is dumb, we'll tell them \"that's dumb, and here's why\""
"i'm all for microtransactions in the form of vanity items. but never for anything that provides \"convenience\" or a leg-up in any form over any other player."
"ideally, each strand of pve should specialise in granting one type of resource to the player who puts time into it, so if you want minerals, mining should be your first port of call. half the problem with the current economy is that missioning acts as a one-stop shop which grants everything a player could ever need: raw isk, loyalty points, modules, minerals (through loot melting), standings ... i've possibly missed one or two things off that list as well.changing the way that loot drops work would be one step towards fixing this - if, for example, wrecks never contained fully intact items to be plucked and re-used, just wrecked salvage components that couldn't be melted down and required some manufacturing time and mineral consumption to make into operable modules, that would turn the current system on its head."
"yeah, missioning gives too many different things. each \"task\", career, whatever you want to call it, should have its own rewards. the divisions of labor need to be more distinct. missioning and ratting/exploration are the biggest offenders in this regard.necessity is the plea for every infringement of human freedom. it is the argument of tyrants; it is the creed of slaves. - william pitt"
"i think the big issue here is how to find the right balance between the isk faucets and the isk sinks. judging from the last qen* of last year, the biggest isk faucet happens to be bounty prizes (no doubt from running missions). from the looks of things, the isk flowing into the economy will continue to devalue the isk over time unless a balance between the faucet and the sink is found.thankfully, since the insurance payout to suicide gankers will be nerfed 100% this winter expansion, the isk flowing into the economy will obviously drop. however, i believe that is just a minor drop in the bucket compared to the 800 lb gorilla in the room (mission bounties). perhaps if we can discuss this more we may find a solution together."
"all major isk faucets should be in null, low sec, and wh space. high sec should be the place to use resources from whs, low sec and null in refining, manufacturing, and markets.that is at it's core what is wrong with eve's economy risk/reward balance. your isk sink would be built in the risk from other players when farming the faucets into the game."
"batch of faction cruise cost 4.2k lp and 4.2 mil isk trade in. a high end lvl4 mission gives around 8.4k lp, 3 mil isk rewards, and 10 mil isk bounty (if pirate rats, zero for drone/faction rats). if clearing all rats, it's a small 4 mil net isk faucet. if not clear all rats, or blitz, it's net isk sink.this is why sanctums were nerfed, but not missions. doing so reduce isk sink as well as isk faucet. you even run the risk of potentially making things worse by reducing sink more than faucet, if the nerf end up chase mission blitzers off."
"wrong. isk faucets in null anomalies should be greatly nerfed because of its type - pure liquid isk faucet, not counterbalanced by lp shop isk sink. the only kind of isk faucet that is acceptable should be highsec mission/incursion isk faucet - which is properly countered by lp shop isk sink, while isk faucet from insurance is minimal.eve economy doesn't care about risk. if anything, popping ships damage eve economy by adding insurance isk faucet."
"there's no insurance on mods, rigs, and implants. the insurance on t2 ships is marginal. and on top of all that i wouldn't mind seeing insurance removed altogether anyway, but i think your over stating it's impact. lp store's demand is largely fueled by things blowing up. the problem is those milking that faucet (missions and high sec incursions) are at virtually no risk to losing stuff themselves."
"fixt.why do people continue to promote the fantasy that greater risk should guarantee greater reward as if being podkilled or losing one's ship actually has any real meaning or consequence in this game?what is the point of having different zones if we are going to try so hard to balance payouts with so-called \"risk\"?this is a game with automagically renewing resources. there are zero risks. suicide gankers for instance are merely speculative investors.low-sec and null-sec are supposed to be more difficult than high-sec. why are people trying to make them so much easier? quit with the welfare requests to make up for the fact that you chose to live where you live and quit trying to pick the pockets of people who chose to not live where you live."
"you didn't fix anything thredd,risk vs reward is the basics of gameplay. if the greatest reward is to be found where there is the least risk, why would players ever rationally choose anything other than the least risk? other than out of sheer boredom of course.if you live in high sec doing pve, you still effect the whole game, the more isk you generate into the game the less everyone's isk is worth, including those in null, low sec and wh. if you want gameplay that immunizes you from other players and parts of the game, the game should be immunized of all your activities. perhaps that's an alternative option high sec missions and incursions only reward players with mods/ships that can be used in pve and no isk.eve is supposed to be a sandbox, ccp should stop accommodating themepark players... yes that's the divide in all these debates i see on the forums. it isn't between pvpers and \"carebears\" whatever that means, it's between sandbox players and themepark players. in regards to the economy and everything else in the next meeting i want the csm to ram home to ccp with the iron fist of mittani that they need to always choose sandbox over themepark. i have no desire to play space wow."
"short answer: exactly :)where's the profit to be made when anyone can buy anything within a few jumps? where's the role of the hauler when people in lonetrek can get republic fleet merchandise from an lp store within a few jumps?increasing the logistical size of the universe will help bring back the feeling of eve being a huge place."
"i agree and disagree to some extent, but that discussion belongs in the game balance thread. kinda. at least it certainly doesn't belong in the plex thread."
"popping ships does nothing to reduce isk in circulation. it reduces the materials in circulation, which in turn would lead to higher material prices (except for the faucets of materials)"
"isk faucets available in highsec come hand in hand with isk sink. a nerf can potentially add net isk faucet by removing more isk sink than faucet (if more mission blitzers, or those who don't clear site fully, are driven off, than site clearers). sanctums, on the other hand, is pure isk faucet, and can be nerfed or even removed safely.losing boats add isk faucet via insurance.you're entitled to your opinions on how \"risk\" in eve should be, but don't pretend it will help the economy instead of harming it.see below:"
"exactly, and as i said there is no real risk in eve, so again why keep trying to boost rewards for people who choose to spend more money and reduce rewards for people who don't based on a lifestyle choice?i am certainly not asking for immunization, just asking why some folks want to rob the carebears to feed the nullbears when the nullbears have exactly the same options for lifestyle choices as the carebears. low and null-sec are supposed to be less profitable and riskier than high-sec. make the payments equal to the so-called \"risk\" in a game where death and ship destruction have zero consequences in the first place and you obviate the need for low and null-sec at all and you may as well make it all high-sec and install an arena/ladder system instead. you chose to live there and now you want welfare.ccp is a business and eve costs money. ccp gets to say how it goes. if ccp chooses to continue to do things to alienate much of their potential player base and leave millions of isk on the table, that is their choice. quit parroting the same tired codswallop about \"wow in space\". eve will never be that."
"don't know if this count but bring qen back or something."
"you and goose are correct, my earlier statement only applies as an isk sink for players, not the economy as a whole. perhaps then insurance is what needs to be adjusted, adding and isk cost in manufacturing equivalent to the cost to insure the ship, or removing insurance altogether. a scam proof system of player funded insurance would be interesting, although i'm not sure if many players would get any insurance under real market situations.bounties are a huge isk faucet however, and i have some ideas to fix that.no more direct isk payments into a players account. rather when an npc ship with a bounty is killed it drops tags which then have to be taken to an appropriate faction agent and traded for isk. this combined with reinstating proper risk/reward dynamics to eve would cut isk inflation significantly, make blowing up ships potentially a game wide isk sink, and add a real means of potentially profiting from piracy/pvp which is sorely lacking in eve. ... all dependent on whether the ship is carrying tags (physical isk) and whether on ship destruction they drop or get destroyed.essentially make isk a physical object like gold in fantasy sandbox mmos."
"forcing bounty by looting will just herd players into either highsec or safe sov null tucked deep inside the blue ass of large alliances, where it's safe enough to do so. isk cost of manufacturing equal to cost of insurance just brings massive inflation to ship prices netting to the same result as just removing insurance, but forcing players to pay more out of pocket.there are safer ways to introduce isk sinks, in ways that are not hugely disruptive. remove lp shop tag tradein, while increase isk tradein, to a point far higher than base tag prices. drastically increase sov bills and npc office bills. entities that get them can afford it. drastically increase wardec costs. etc.trying to \"add risk\" in order to force people to play their game a certain way, introduce problems, and has nothing to do with increase isk sink/decrease isk faucet. don't tie the two together."
"no, in a game like eve everything is connected, you can't look at one aspect in isolation of everything else. risk and reward are very much out of balance in eve and that dynamic is very much tied in with the economic aspects of eve. your fears of people fleeing to highsec or joining mega alliances with a fetish for blue, already happened long ago, precisely because that's the path of both greatest reward and least risk, fix that and players may make different choices.your suggestion on wardecs is backwards. wardecs should be made cheap and limitless. the isk sink ought to be for those wishing to avoid the risks of war, not for those that embrace it. at least double the tax rates of npc corps, but something in the region of 40-50% would be better. allow player corps to pay for the same protection from wardecs, by paying concord a 50% tax on all members activities. that would be an effective solution that is also balanced with risk/reward."
"the biggest hurdle to new players is that realistic pvp only starts when players have enough skills to fit and properly use t2 mods and can afford to replace their losses. this is why so many get stuck in hisec; they never get to experience pvp at the beginning of their eve career. i don't know what the solution could be; hisec pvp arenas for players under a certain skill limit possibly, but something needs to be done."
"the new player experience is alright, but it needs to be polished a bit. i've created an alt and run through the tutorials for each race post-incrana, and there are little bugs that can really throw someone, like when a skillbook is supposed to be given to them, but doesn't show up.the text on some of the tutorials is a bit truncated in content, as it will say \"you need [module] to do [action]\" and not elude to the fact that when you click \"next\" the tutorial will give you one. this can leave the user looking in their hangar for an item they haven't been given yet, wondering if the tutorial is broken, etc.a \"newbie gauntlet\" needs to be set up to satisfy a couple issues.newbies need to know what it's like to get their little newbie ship obliterated by a t2 gank-fit. get them used to what eve is really like.in the gauntlet system, remove concord. keep sec status dings, but make it a blood bath.set the newbies clone at a station at the end of the gauntlet, so if they get podded, they are still done with the tutorial.newbies have to get through the gauntlet to get to the career agents.[newbie star system 1.0]--->[gauntlet system 0.0, hot drops, etc.]--->[career agent sytem 0.9/1.0]probably to much of that scary \"work\" word for ccp to actually implement, but if they are going to run a pvp centric game, then they should make sure that newbies get a taste of what life is like in eve before they even get settled on anything else."
"that sounds maybe a little too harsh.when i think back to my first day, i remember just how confused i was.eve is a very different game than any other mmo out there, so when someone is fresh and without past experience or tips, they are absolutely lost. this means that there's a ton of things to learn, but it shouldn't be dumped all at once on the new player. if all the information comes at once, most of it will be forgotten.it needs to be a gradual and fun experience. i would need to ask a friend that never played eve to try the new tutorials. i started playing with the one in 2010 and i don't know how improved it is.one thing i really don't like is how small the text is; it's hard to read."
"npe needs to be split into several \"stages\".aura 5-mission set is excellent, little improvement needed there, if any.its the career agents that haven't been reviewed properly. a newbie player should be strongly encouraged to run the career agents after aura. currently there are 5 career agents (10-missions each):-military-industry-business-advanced military-explorationthey are meant to be run independently (except for the adv military one), but in reality many of the missions in industry require you to fight npc rats, same happens in the in business missions. if someone chose industry before military (i personally tested it) finds himself struggling with combat because of lack of equipment and skills.my suggestion is to split all areas into basic and advanced, making basic a prerequisite of the advanced ones:basic military training 5-run setbasic industry training 5-run setbasic business training 5-run setbasic exploration training 5-run setbasic missions provide the most important skills and show basic concepts in each topic. then after you \"unlocked\" all the basics, you can selectively run the advanced courses.advanced missions are a 15-run set and are centered around providing equipment and income to the newbie. this means you give more time to the player to train skills, get used to modules and acquire wealth.finally, \"geograpy\" is another thing that should be improved. currently there are 3 starting locations for the each npc empire (each school). however there are also 3 sets of career agents spread out. i know this was implemented that way for the \"dragon patch\" when eve china was launched, but creates the possibility for a player to run 3 times each set of career agents.my suggetion is to create a single set of career agents (4basic +4 adv), place them in a specific \"newbie\" constellation for each empire and design all the missions with the idea of traveling within that constellation as part of their design. players often do not grasp the concept of \"travel\" in eve in the first few days, it will also help the gms to \"police\" and \"help\" newbies in those 4 specific locations across the server.currently we also have the newbie epic-arc, \"blood-stained stars\", and excellent set of missions to earn isk and which sort of explain the current sleeper threat along the geopolitical composition of the galaxy (as fiction and basis of the rpg aspects of the game). however this arc should be suggested to the player once he has completed all the basic courses and not before. currently, the epic arc is mentioned to the player after completing the aura missions, and more often than not, the new players struggle againsts some of the npc rats in the missions or lack the proper ships to complete them (at least i did if bypassed all the career agents).data centers and circle agents (not sure if these still exist) should be mentioned to the newbie player as a mean to create \"contacts\" with the goverment institutions on each empire.....that way the grinding of standings at the beginning is not so boring. data centers themselves should have some of the tag requirements adjusted a bit tooif all these aspects of the game (which already exist) are properly tackled into the npe framework as a single path for the new player, provide fun, isk and tools to break throught the difficulties of starting, i am sure you will find a much better retention rate for trials."
"tutorials are boring and unfit for purpose.look at normal games on the market, you have a tutorial or single player campaign that teaches you how to play and prepares you for multiplayer. eve tutorials may show you the different things you can do but it does not teach you how to do them and pve does not prepare you for pvp."
"nex-store clothing is mostly ghastly, and miles away from the old-style that most players 'grew up' with, which brings me to this...the recent competitions which eventually resulted in the new tier 3 bc's highlighted just how good some of the players out there are with 3d packages. and given that (as far as i understand from dev interviews) current design is outsourced, why doesn't ccp release a design document for players, ie. file format, poly-counts, etc. and see what the playerbase can come up with?"
"this is the best idea all day. i mean, seriously, if art is part of the problem, then by god, i'll step up and create it myself if i have to (some may laugh, but i do have a degree in computer modeling and animation from aip.)"
"i would like crisp new effects for explosions and guns detonation.i saw this video a few weeks ago;"
"the csm, or at least part of it, has done a good job at reporting to the players this term. two step, trebor and seleene in particular come to mind."
"i think the csm did a good job. it didn't feel like there was any bias towards a certain part of the game in the arguments. i just hope the next csm will take into consideration all parts of the game in the future as well. i would hate to see null sec get all the income and wormholes and low sec miss-out despite being equally as dangerous."
"keep the csm, but give users an easily visible bright red \"vote on eve related issues' button right next to where their character selection is. let the players decide at the screen if they want to be involved where the game goes, instead of having to hear about second or third hand, or, worse yet, stumbling onto the forums to find out about it.people don't need the stuff forced on them, but they need the option to do so clearly in front of them, specifically so they know that they have that option in the first place.more player interaction directly with ccp at a level that provides ccp with raw data to work with (instead of having to pay someone to read through the endless repeating threads on the forums).less csm manipulation."
"seems to be working better than it ever has since i've been following eve. granted it's dominated by people from null sec alliances, but i'd rather have them representing me than someone voted in by players that are forced to vote. if players can't take the time to inform themselves and vote, well i'd rather they had no say at all tbh."
"i trust you will strongly resist any proposals for \"reserved seats\" for specific so-called 'consituencies'. special treatment is not a way to improve the credibility of a democratic process."
"yes if there is one thing that will increase the effectiveness of the csm, it's ensuring that only those people who have to spend half their term getting used to the way ccp works can be elected. we should definitely toss that experience into the dumper and ensure that only inexperienced csms represent us. this is not at all a back-door proposal to get rid of csms you don't like even though they got lots of votes because you're afraid that the csms you do like won't get as many."
"of that the bots would vote for whoever the bot script writer wants them to..."
"i for one will resist them, because it's impossible to properly implement it. and in any case, very few players stay in one particular niche for their entire eve careers.wrt to focusing on one area to the exclusion of others, right now the focus is on fixing basic stuff that broadly affects a lot of people. getting ccp to implement dead horse pos's, for example, is something that helps everyone. improving industry and mining makes hisec more interesting and nullsec more valuable -- and worth fighting over. and so on, and so on.people in the csm might disagree over whether iterating nullsec sov or fw or lowsec is the highest priority, but these are disagreements at the margins. and if a sharp-eyed dev at ccp comes up with (or notices on the forums!) a low-cost way to iterate an existing game feature (like fw, or bounties), we are certainly going to get behind that, even if it doesn't directly affect an area of the game we hold near and dear -- because the bang for the buck will be too good to ignore."
"csm shouldn't have monopoly mostly for csm"
"as far as changes for the csm is concerned, i found myself agreeing with what the mittani posted in his chairman's thread:"
"agreed, except that the trade is done directly through in-game market and you can easily decide when you want to apply the game time you have bought. seller can still set the price, move the plex around in new eden or take it out from market. he can even contract it or make an auction in local. only difference is that once it changes account, it stays on account where it went. this doesn't limit free trade. it just changes the item from \"piece of paper\" to \"non refundable game time\" or \"service\" if that makes it easier to understand.again... you can not create this \"game time\" inside new eden. any unnecessary trading with such item can not be good for the sand box economy.unrelevant argument. you're confusing affordability, subscription, funding methods and pilots personal wealth to discussion about binding game time to account on purchase. that is also called derailing the actual issue."
"you're confusing plex with game time. that's the actual issue.plex are a tradable commodity, just like scourge missiles. game time is not tradable: once it's applied to your account you can't sell it to someone else for isk. plex can be used to impact the game, just like scourge missiles can be used to impact the game."
"why is market manipulation a concern?"
"that is exactly my point. how can \"service\", in this case \"game time\" be an \"item\" what you can use to impact sand box game. the goal of plex is to give someone possibility to pay someone else's game time and gain in game currency in the trade. there is really no need to add any more variables to the equation.if you want play more complex market games, there is plenty of real in game items available.only _direct_ supply and demand should apply to plex price and that happens if there is no \"investors\" in the equation."
"no, the goal of plex is to allow the player-driven market to determine an isk price for the real-world value embodied in this virtual commodity. that real-world value is approx. <U+FFFD>17, not 30 days of game time.why should plex only be tradable from initial purchaser to immediate user?"
"- because people make profit by trading with \"service\", an imaginary item which can not be generated in game but what some individuals still need to stay on-line.- because plex can not be generated in game, normal in-game supply and demand rules do not ap"
"if i mission for 3 years straight and save up all my isk,isnt it my right to do with it what i please?if i want to buy 100 plex and hold onto them - thats my choice - not yours.i earned that isk like you did and how i spend my time with my isk is nobody elses choice but mine.if you are complaining that its not as 'cheap' to play for free becaues your plex is now more expensive, is your problem and your tears."
"plex is an item just like any other item in eve. ccp has made it very clear back when they made them transportable and destructible. the only difference from veldspar or scourge missiles is the way in which it enters the game. after a plex is redeemed, it is mechanically indistinguishable from any other item. in that regard it is no different from, say, a primae.i liked the part where you provided proof, or at least reasons for believing so."
"in the end, i feel like it all balances out. plex is not the only way of playing eve and this means people who can't afford the isk, can always pay with real money. if they're unable to do either, they should consider their position carefully.i've been pondering the issue of the plex for a while now, especially in relation to bot users. i was wondering if ccp had an financial interest in keeping bots instead of banning them outright - it's an argument that appears often in bot discussions. it sounds a lot like a conspiration theory and it probably is, but anyhow, it has some valid argument. bots are accounts, if ccp bans those thousands of accounts, then they must necessary lose money? not necessarily. bots are meant to create in game resources without effort. they easily create enough resources to pay for plex and then much more. i have the feeling that most bots use plex.now, the catch is, losing a plex account, does not mean that ccp loses money. ccp makes the money when the plex is bought from a player with real money. it does not matter what happens with that plex afterwards. it could be gifted to someone else or stacked neatly for no purpose; ccp already made the money. so ccp wouldn't directly lose money from banning bots.however, they would likely feel a smaller impact indirectly. having less plex user on the market means the price of the plex goes down, which means that people who would have otherwise paid money for their account switch to plex. it also might get people to buy a second account with plex.this was all about bots, but the logic applies to anyone that runs the game for free.the plex market mostly affects free accounts. those accounts don't bring any money to ccp, but they might be friends, corp mates or bots.my solution: ban bots to free up plex."
"econ blog, nex blog, and dev forum comment regarding concerns of unused plex buildup. no i cannot be bothered to find links for your convenience, google it yourself."
"you may still buy 100 plex and hold onto them... in the form of added gametime on your account. you simple lose the ability to throw out those 100 plex at a later time, which would be a problem for ccp. wild fluctuations = players quit game when it's high, then potentially crash later. it's in ccp's interest to keep plex stable. the thing rose by 100 mil the past week, then dropped 50 mil in the past 3 days."
"nothing to do with several good reasons that caused a spike in demand, i am sure."
"why?i would suggest that it is in ccp's interest to keep plex sales high. higher prices will lead to more sales. remember, gtc and plex are about legitimate rmt. that they provide game time as a side effect is almost irrelevant to this discussion. a lot of people have been using plex to pay for their accounts, and seem to have developed a sense of entitlement. they expect plex to remain at a price that is suitable for them, rather than the seller.it's interesting to note that most of the people i know who sell plex insist on selling to buy orders. most of the people i know who buy plex insist on buying from sell orders. these people are so impatient that they've gone and turned the market upside-down.if you want decently priced plex to keep your account active, post buy orders below the current orders. they'll be filled. don't buy from sell orders <U+FFFD> doing so will only inflate the price of plex further."
"*ding ding*! we have a winner, bob!the mystery isn't why plex prices have risen to 500m, the mystery is why they didn't do so long ago.a trillion isk can buy something over 2,000 plex.the amount of isk in eve increases by multiple trillions every month."
"it is quite hilarious how the discussion always goes towards \"can't afford the isk\" - \"prices rise\" - \"should consider subbing\", even the actual reasoning has nothing to do with the current plex price level. it has somewhat to do with questioning is the current plex price level reflecting the true value of it or has it been manipulated by investors. personally i would not have any problem buying my game time with 1 billion isk/month. however i've made personal calculations and come to conclusion, that paying over 400m from plex is turning myself to tool, so i rather pay with credit card and have no problem with that either.however i still feel that plex is not actual in game item what should be used for market games. it is nothing like \"scourge missile\" or \"primae\" as someone referred earlier, because you can not control the supply in game.plex should bound to account when it changes ownership from account x to account y. it is a service - game time - thing what appears from thin air. you should not be able to make trade profit by investing to thin air. when you buy game time, you should commit to use it in some point. it is that simple."
"hohif price is acceptable for both the seller and buyer than the sale is made. you cant force the seller to sell plex for cheaper , if he thinks the prices is too low he just wont sell it.btw high prices doesnt mean more plexes are sold , if somebody wants to by a supercapital from plexes, he needs to sell less plexes if the plex price increase relative to supercap.oh and plex traders , plex doesnt worth to be trade on daily , just in longer term imho , the buy/sell difference is too low for that.and i would still like to be able to buy plexes with my trade toon in jita so he can contract it up to my other accounts when i need them. so no dumb , if you buy plex it goes to your account page bullshit. why should i made 1 char for every account to buy plex for that account , especially as some account doesnt have free char slots as those are used for scout and cyno or else?btw if you think plex price is too high go buy gtc and convert it to plex ,nobody forces you to buy plex.\"when you buy game time, you should commit to use it in some point. it is that simple.\" yeah but not on the same accountstill i cant see whats the problem with market manipulators , just look at the magnitude plexes worth in daily change, it is huge,if you join too you get yourself a cut too + lower income for manipulators , if enough ppl join , it can backfire for the manipulators, as the demand is artifical and later demand wont be able to buy the stockpiled up gtcs at higher prices.just look at some cheap ships or items ,somebody thought it is wise to buy them off the market and realized they wont be able to sell them at all ,(maybe hounds on this week if i recall corretly), so they eighter have to lower prices back to where they bought or they will have a \"useless\" stockplie for a long time."
"when you buy a plex you're are buying an in-game item. you should make no further commitment than paying the price the seller demands. it's that simpley. once it's yours, it yours and you should be free to do as you wish with it.(flat assertions of my opinion as if it was fact are awesome, tyvm for introducing me to this fantastic concept!)"
"if this were true, ccp would peg the plex price at 1 isk, and make $225 billion every time someone wants to use gtc to buy a supercarrier. eve would have millions, maybe billions, of subscribed accounts, all subbed up to the end of the century and beyond.my god - you're some kind of economic genius! someone get hilmar to read this thread, naomi has just saved ccp with her insight!"
"all the people in favour of linking plex to an account keep comfortably forgetting that somebody is spending real money to buy a gtc to convert to plex, and they invested real time in that (working for the man) too.and it is in those people's best interest that plex is in fact expensive since it creates a better real money -> isk conversion rate for them. like somebody mentioned earlier being able to play for free via plex is a perk of eve not a right. eve is ultimately a p2p (pay 2 play) game."
"yeah sure case anybody would buy plex worth 1 isk for real money... ofcourse there are limitations on how low the price would result the most sold plexes.if that is lower than the current prices i cant tell , but ccp should be able to to some extend as they have or should have the data to backup their decisions.dont act as a stupid moron pls."
"well if you're going to imply that the supply of plex is inelastic with price, you should maybe reconsider whether you're the one who gets to ask other people not to be idiots.so the real question is: what is the equilibrium price at which the most plex are created. i'll assume that this is the \"right\" price, as it allows the most number of people to play for free, and makes ccp the most money, and it's ipso facto the best price for the people who pay the money to create them as well (in terms of how much money they're willing to pay)if the isk price is low, then people have to buy more plex to buy a specific item, but they're less likely to do so.if the isk price is high, then people have to buy fewer plex to afford their aeon or whatever, but they're more likely to do so.i know that i personally was watching the plex price rise with interest, and i in fact made a decision that if they hit 600m, i would work a day of overtime and make some plex to sell for enough isk that i wouldn't have to pve for a year or so. i had no specific purchase in mind.unless ccp tell us how many plex are being created, then any attempt to say that the plex price is \"too high\" (or \"too low\") is, at the end of the day, just based on personal perspective and undiluted guessing. (this might be an interesting question for the csm to put to ccp.)"
"so you're mad other people are making money?this is just flat out wrong. the supply is people wanting to turn real money into isk and the demand is people wanting to play for free. the final isk price is a function of the two. oh, so now it does follow supply and demand? i know its cool to hate on investment bankers right now but its not like you have any barrier for entry for plex investment. just buy some.despite high plex prices people are still buying them. so either they were underpriced before or we have an inflation problem, neither of which have anything to do with a plex trading market. either way, if 100m is the difference between you being able to afford your gametime this month or not then you should consider just getting a real life job instead. at 500m a plex is at least 5 hours of incursions with a good group (not to mention the 500-1000 initial investment). how many hours of minimum wage work would it take to just pay with money? i'm guessing less than 5."
"so you write the same thing as i wrote. thats something.it is all up to ccp , so i dont even understand why there is such a topic as this , as it has no real reason, other than some ppl wants lower plex prices somehow."
"everyone of you seem to be unable to distinguish the difference between \"high\" and \"unstable.\" high is when plex price climb sturdily, as it did for years. unstable is when plex rose by 100 mil in a week, then fell by 50 mil in 3 days, which is what happened recently. the spikes prompt people to leave, the dips put a dampener on plex purchases. wild fluctuations is never a good thing for the economy. what makes it unacceptable for plex is that wild fluctuations in subscription prices translates directly to fluctuations in subscription base."
"perhaps you should learn to understand what you're reading, before trying to throw any answers."
"umadbro!!!"
"those who believe that binding is bad idea only because it would prevent using 1 \"jita\"-alt to obtain game time for several accounts, could be rounded by setting for example 24h timer to plex before it binds to account after it has changed owner 1st time. during this period you could still contract or trade that plex forward, but you could not put it back to market. that way you could still buy and contract your plex forward, but playing market games would be done deal.i don't understand what is the reason to be so negative about this. you guys commit to game time when you buy for example 3 month subscription. why should it be different in the game? only the currency is different brand."
"no, its pretty clear you think plex are too expensive and the evil, soulless market players are to blame."
"is it?how interesting. care to share the facts behind this assumption?"
"see below:the fact that it dropped by 50 mil in 3 days actually does more damage than it rising 100 mil a week prior. it has everything to do with fluctuations, and nothing to do with actual price. subscription price must remain stable, too \"high\" or \"low\" is a matter of opinion."
"this is a game and that means all of it is 100% thin air, all of it.eve existed before plex. plex is a eula friendly form of rmt. no one is being forced to buy or sell them.ccp gets their pound of flesh from their players as every month is still paid for with real money, they just get a lot more prepaid time is all.in game supply is easily controlled. don't buy them in game or out.people could be paying a lot less for concerts and sporting events if they would just be patient and stop buying those things for a while and let the price come down.fact is, despite all the crying to rob the carebears to feed the nullbears, there is a ton of isk floating around, just look at plex prices..."
"dust has a lot of potential. it could be used to infiltrate and sabotage space structures.i hear the complain now and then that shooting space structures for hours is boring. it could be an interesting alternative to have dust players be able to reinforce a pos through their shootie gunny thing. granted, it shouldn't be easy. this could probably apply to poco's.maybe in the future they can commandeer things? that would be nice.also, another fun ability of dust player would be to steal cargo. say a player if creating high tier goods on a planet, you send a team, they manage to reach the cargo and bring it back to their base. the cargo now belongs to them. players should be able to defend from that"
"hey, i had an idea where players are able to skill into flying fighters & bombers.of cause the skills required will be tricky, but will give people who develop their drone skills only to be used with a carrier for something other than logging on in low-sec / nul-sec only when they are needed.the idea i had was for fighters & bombers to be flown from the cockpit like a fps(first person shooter) with profit modules and attributes exact to that of a the original drones. but of cause their will be limitation like the following...1) they have no jump drive which means they cannot be jumped through high-sec systems.2) warp drive will run from the capacitor limiting how often it can warp.3) must be able to dock / undock from a station.4) if you do enter a modified fighter / bomber, you will not enter a pod if you are blown up making it high risk.5) you cannot at any point repackage a modified fighter / bomber which will mean that drone is limited to the system you chose to assemble unless you have a large enough cargo to transport it... and that we can not assembled ships on our own it will force the use and risk of contracts.6) manual fighter / bomber special ability would be to drop at of warp at any time.i am sure there are more things to limit, but i can't think of any right now..the only other thing would be to some day if this was included into eve is to go further and allow special orders from a carrier as well as the ability to come and go from its drone hold."
"i concur. i feel like it would benefit the game to have medium fleets (in the hundred) be the optimal way of fighting.i think that problem can be controlled naturally with gameplay feature like the bomber. bombers are able to dispatch large fleets; which makes large fleet dangerous.it benefits ccp to promote smaller fleet since they won't cause as much lag either. if larger fleet are always better, than people will tend toward larger alliances and larger fleet battle. that will continuously put more strain on the server.i'm not familiar with the null sec and sov mecanics, but there's definitely a lot of potential. capture the flag could be interesting - it would remove the 'shooting structure' from capturing sov in a system, but it would still need to be long process (a day or two) to prevent sovereignty from bouncing every few hours.perhaps if sovereignty could be captured by maintaining an (active - not afk in a pos, cloaked or whatnot) enemy presence in the system. enemy structures could increase the difficulty of capturing the system, by raising the time required to capture or by increasing the required number of foe in the system to capture it. this would make destroying structure valuable, but not necessary.the sov holders would need to defend by removing the enemy presence from the system (promoting fights) and then they could raise their sovereignty 'capture' bar by leaving players there. this would force the sov holder to split their force if they are attacked on multiple fronts. it would make holding large area of null sec difficult.this means a null sec that has more smaller holders - thus more small fights! anyway, just a plan."
"structures for sov needs to be overhauled.sov needs to be more focused.. and power projection minimized. also there's a current issue where every other system has sov, with pockets unclaimed. projection pushes those as claimed even on the in-game map.this allows an allaince to essentially influence twice the territory than they are paying for. sov should require \"benchmarks\" to mantain and hold it, and to have x systems, y conditions must be met regarding other, currently held systems."
"i'd go further and say that it should be possible to set ones castle up in way that makes storming it head-on equals mass suicide. or in other words, an entity that specializes in smaller scale conflict should be able to smash a stampeding herd of cattle when on their own turf (yes, i want to re-enact the movie '300' in eve!) .. @ traeb and co.: you might want to dig up the threads on the subject that were red-hot with activity just prior to the forum switch, if i remember correctly sov was one of the questions ccp asked feedback on."
"hi. i would like the developer team to address the issue of low insurance payouts for pilots flying hulks. the price of hulks are steep as compared to the payouts. should simething be done to address this? i would not want to spend almost 200 million isks on a hulk, have it blown up again by some good in empire space and then get a paltry return on insurance. something has to be done on this or else mining in hulks will be extinct soon. for your information, should something be done with this hulkageddon or something...sigh..."
"something should indeed be done with hulkageddon.it is this: \"during hulkageddon, don't fly a hulk!\"if there is a widespread public holiday and celebration dedicated to murdering the ships you happen to fly, it'd be wise to not fly that ship during said holiday. or not mine at all, really, but if you must mine, do so in a cruiser or battleship, instead of a vulnerable mining barge or expensive exhumer.if, despite all else, you insist on flying your vulnerable hulk during hulkageddon, despite obviously being aware of it in advance, then you are clearly asking for trouble, and richly deserve any you find.that said, the other good thing to be doing with hulkageddon is stockpiling gank ships, as they'll sell well during the event. for that matter (depending on how rich you are), you might even stockpile hulks... they'll be even more expensive, during and shortly after hulkageddon, once all the people who got ganked rush to buy a replacement. possibly with plex, the fools."
"tell them they're on the right road, but that they have to tread, very, very carefully to avoid more drama in future."
"crucible is a step in the right direction, the next two or three expansions will be critical. there are various issues harming the eve environment that have been allowed to take root over years and have never been tackled because ccp has been distracted by other projects. we could all reel off the list, we all know what they are, and we've all waited in vain for years hoping something might finally be done about them. ccp's priorities for the forseeable future need to be using the next few expansion cycles to examine every aspect of eve to see where improvements can be made and tackling them head on, every time bringing in more of the thousand little things and a couple of really big things as well."
"trebor, could you throw us a bone here...? you might as well say, \"chicken curry. discuss.\"what is this session, trebor? is it a meeting with the man, is it a discussion about the csm's relationship with the guy, what...? maybe once we know, you'll get a discussion..."
"this is (i think) the usual sit-down csm has with hilmar csm has at the end of summits. that is at least what i remember from previous csm minutes."
"yep.if you feel there is a message you would like us to convey to hilmar, do let us know. i'm sure we'd be happy to oblige."
"corp a is a 100-strong pvp corp with median of 50m sp. they can fly most t2/t3 cruisers very well. they have an established industry alt corp providing them with near limitless isk. they play for about 5 hours day, and most of that is flying ships in pvp combat.corp b is a 20-strong industrial corp with median of 10m sp. they mine in ospreys and retrievers. one of the corp is training to fly an orca. they play for about 2 hours a day, a few more on the weekend. most of their time is spent mining <U+FFFD> shooting the breeze. they occasionally get their rvb alts out, where they will fly a few rifters into combat during their weekly 3 hour pvp op.how is it in any way \"fun\" for corp b to be perpetually wardecced by corp a? do you believe that a simple fixed-cost unavoidable wardec system will not immediately to a plethora of corps griefing other players out of the game? do you even understand the circumstances that lead to concord being introduced and wardecs having escalating costs based on number of decs active?"
"yeah thats gonna happen."
"who knows. three years ago, no one would have ever said \"game console players on eve planets? rofl, what ya smokin doood!\"necessity is the plea for every infringement of human freedom. it is the argument of tyrants; it is the creed of slaves. - william pitt"
"at last fanfest, ccp talked about having dynamic agents; basically, the more an agent is used, the less reward it gives. this would be idea for distributing the population more evenly in highsec and give people an incentive to vary their playstyle. they might discover something that they didn't know before.another interesting dynamic system that was discussed last week in feature and idea was 'dynamic security system'. it would be interesting to see high sec vary from 0.5 to 1.0, lowsec vary from 0.5 to 0.1 and nullsec go up and down depending on the system activity.same as the mission; it would get people moving around. a system that is good one month might not be as interesting once it devalues.there's a juggernaut in the room that should be toned down though; incursions. they were difficult at first, but now they're a run in the park. it's nice to have high end pve content for those that like to do that, but it should not be the ultimate way of earning isk - and it should not be risk free. the economy of eve is a delicate thing. it depends on ship being destroyed to drain the resources. incursions at the moment destabilize the economy."
"you're missing the point. it doesn't matter if it destroys eve completely, they are only interested in griefing.if eve gets shut down, they will move to the next game and continue. it's not the game that matters, it's \"the tears\"."
"wardecs: revert back to pre-privateer wardec nerf. if some corp like orphanage for instance wants to be at war with every player corp they should be able to do so, and isk shouldn't be a barrier in terms of declaring. if you want to avoid such interaction with other players you should stay in an npc corp. perhaps an option could be put in for a player corp to to gain immunity from wardecs by signing up with concord, but at a price of 20-25% + tax on all members.gates: i agree with the poster above would be nice if they were gone, but it isn't realistic. however, it should be made harder to camp the jump in side of the gate, the blind side. looking into possibly increasing the the range from the gate when a ship jumps into a system, like 10 times or more what it is now. local: local chat/intel still hasn't been addressed. ccp needs to come up with a replacement that isn't 100% foolproof intel and apply it to nullsec and perhaps lowsec as well.incursions: the implantation of this makes me want to vomit. it's broken the risk reward balance of eve, and it's an affront to players that care about the lore or rp pirates.. especially the sansha. * people blowing up sansha shouldn't be rewarded with sansha ships, nerfed concord ships would seem more appropriate.* players should be able to side with the sansha and fight against players doing incursions without the interference of concord. now if the wardecs were fixed players could sort this out themselves in true sandbox fashion. what we have is groups like skunkworks trying every loop hole to fight these people, and rather than ccp doing something to allow that like fixing wardecs, they're fixing the loop holes making it even worse a situation with incursions. off grid, near unprobable gang link alts: reminds me of buff bots in daoc, i hope it doesn't take ccp as long to fix it. possible solutions: must be on grid or eccm can't be fitted on these ships and doesn't work in a pos shield.cyno hot drops. should be a mod that blocks a ship from lighting a cyno, maybe something common in use but short range like a scram/disruptor.anyway there's lots of broken ass-backwards stuff in eve, but that's enough to chew on for now."
"we're still saying that."
"fair enough :)necessity is the plea for every infringement of human freedom. it is the argument of tyrants; it is the creed of slaves. - william pitt"
"npc corps need looking at. i think there should be additional consequences (not necessarily negative consequences please note) for being a member of a npc corp. e.g.- only members of a npc corp get access to particular missions for their corp- members of an npc corp gain standings faster with their corp vs. other players and vice versa- competing npc corps challenge each other through player actions - missions maybe even occasional wars where players for competing corps can start attacking each other for a limited time period to help their chosen corporation achieve an objective for examplejust a few ideas but essentially npc corps need to become more dynamic as well as introducing more player consequences for being a member."
"this"
"null is not safe as high-sec and the consequence is not being able to produce as much as hi-sec."
"iterative cruiser/frig balance, ever go: \"a bellicose/burst/bantam/osprey/augoror on scan? what's that?\"af balance, make them relevant againcitadel sized missile explosion radius/velocity tweaking"
"nullparrot much?\"braaawk!!! let's steal money from the people who chose to live a quieter, less dissipative lifestyle and give it to the people who spend ships like addicts smoke crack...welfare for nullbears!!!\"there is zero risk in eve. death and ship loss are extremely temporary setbacks at worst.low and null-sec are lifestyle choices and supposed to be hardscrabble, riskier and less profitable than high-sec. make the payments equal to the so-called \"risk\" in a game where death and ship destruction have zero consequences and you obviate the need for low and null-sec in the first place and you may as well make it all high-sec and install an arena/ladder system instead.burn through fewer ships and you won't need so much money. resources automagically renew in this game, remember?. you are basically asking for government bailout money to support your poor/shady business practices. get your tree fiddy from your friends and quit begging ccp to take it from people with better, smarter business practices than you.here's a cookie!"
"i'm not a nullsec toon, and i'm certainly not a carebear (look at my sec status). although i must admit i do run complexes regularly, this game is still not supposed to be risk free, if you want to earn large amounts of money the more dangerous areas should be the best places for it. without risk pve is just a boring grind, and low/null are completely pointless areas.you are the one asking for \"welfare\", you wish for the highest isk/hour but do not want to work for it nor risk your ships. for you there is no concern about what pops up on directional, no scouting, no checking local and for all intents and purposes, no skill."
"it should never be possible to build something, refine it down and wind up with the same minerals used to build it. there should be at least a 25% loss."
"i'll try:i think personally they need to remove loot from missions, or make it non-reprocessable. anyways, miners don't have a job anywhere anymore... not in high, not in low, not in 0.0another think is what to do with the drone lands, they give minerals. [hurting miners]i think there needs to be a change to drone bpo in to a data library or name them other ways, like how sleeper loot is sold to npcs. of course, there is a problem as to how a corp can receive taxes from those libraries (probably by addressing if some corp member sells his library to an npc his corp will get a sales tax on the item).actually, the same problem is with miners- that corps don't get any tax from them at all, the only ones who support corps are mission runners and ratters, and it's not even close. fear."
"+1 to ending module compression."
"black ops battleships:increase range 40%.give resists comprabale with t2 counterparts of other ship classesmatch ehp with t1 counterparts (currently the widow has less shield hp than the scorp has armor hp!)each ship needs a 2nd bonus, combat related.consider... consider...... the option to use a cov ops cloak."
"sigh...same lack of understanding of human nature, same mindless parroting, same self-entitled whining, the same tired \"we have to work harder for our money therefore we should make more money than carebears. carebears are just lazy.\"oh please. this is a game. no one does any actual risky work here. there is zero risk in eve. all eve is, is a series of speculative investments, (suicide ganking included). death and ship loss are basically meaningless. you aren't special because you choose to live a low/null-sec lifestyle and therefore are not entitled to better payouts, it's that simple. low and null-sec should be harder than high-sec. high-sec should be easier than low/null-sec, otherwise why have them? nullbears and nullparrots are quick to point out that this is a sandbox game and should be more reflective of dark, gritty reality, at least when it suits them.here's some dark, gritty reality:games like eve can't accommodate the reality of a lone gunner with little skill being able to ambush and neutralize people and other assets with a crew served weapon, for instance.in reality, the military and police are much more effective than they are in eve, (excepting concord, of course).in \"reality\" many of the things that eve players do would get them and their dna imprisoned or hunted down and permanently terminated, neither of which can be accommodated by this sort of game. scaling fines would make fine isk sinks though and i am not sure why they have not been implemented. perhaps it is because the player segment that would have the most fines would have the least money to pay them overall because of their crack/ship habit? in reality many more people enjoy reading about low-sec and null-sec than actually want to live there. true story.in reality most humans seek the greatest reward for the least risk because that is part of our survival mechanism, not the other way around. greater risk with greater payout is no longer greater risk now is it, not in a game where resources automagically renew and death and ship loss are merely setbacks of time? the game curve already guarantees a payout much better than the casino of your choice.in reality there are far more carebears than nullbears because humans as a group like to feel more safe rather than less.there is much to be gained by awareness and tactical and strategic acumen but skill points can wash all of that away, other things being relatively equal. like other games there are some rock/paper/scissors aspects to eve but it's still pretty simplified and i hardly think basic tactical awareness, scouting and checking local constitutes skill rather than good play and simple sense. in any event, taking money out of carebear pockets to put in nullbear pockets won't make them work any better.i have never asked for anything to be taken from null-sec to give to high-sec and i have never asked for anything to be outright given to high-sec. all i have said is to stop trying to use illogical, emotionally based reasons like the ones you gave above to make game changes, especially ones that involve taking from one group and giving to another based almost entirely on the emotional premise that \"they don't deserve it and we do because we think they are lazy/we feel special and therefore entitled.\" if any conversation screams to most make eve like \"wow in space\" it's the idea that because life gets harder the further you move from empire space that the further you move away from empire the more money you are entitled to and the closer in you are the less money you are entitled to in complete defiance of reality.make the nullbears happy at the expense of the carebears because in reality the nullbears aren't that hardcore and really want a lifestyle more like the carebears they talk trash about.\"welfare for nullbears!!!\" there's your \"wow in space\"..."
"i think you're either trolling, or playing the wrong game, m8.this game, according to ccp, has been about risk v rewardmore risk, more rewardless risk, less rewardit's why abc ore isn't in hisecit's why ice isn't in 1.0it's why rat bounties in null are 900k+ compares to 15k in a 0.7it's why level 5 missions are not in hisecit's why incursions pay 100% in low/null as opposed to 80% in hisec.no, genius, it isn't about taking away what you have in your precious little bubble of safety. it's that you pay the price for being a coward, and that is in less of a reward.to be honest, if the hisec fountian keeps increasing while null is ignored, eventually highsec players will find their lives much more difficult."
"what you say is absolutely true, there's no question about that.there's also no question that eve opened almost a year and a half before wow and recently celebrated 350k subs...i think the numbers speak for themselves, do they not? it's not like people talk that much about eve's allegedly steep learning curve. eve is complex, yes, but it is not complicated.my position is still to cut the attitude about carebears vs nullbears and look more towards gaining and retaining more players in every tier, as that by itself will create a richer environment for interaction for everyone, (and of course a more target rich environment), instead of kowtowing to the droogs which is much of what ccp seems to have done over the years.eve is still unique in many ways. if ccps aim was to sacrifice new customer business and current customer retention in order to create a game that was more about allowing people to entertain themselves at other peoples expense rather than create an experience that was collaboratively enjoyable for as many players as possible, then i think they succeeded admirably and i think the subscription numbers reflect that.p.s. i am happy for you that you managed the word \"genius\". tomorrow you can move on to four syllables here's a cookie...p.p.s. did you really call me a coward? in a video game? what are you, twelve?...p.p.p.s. in a game that has zero consequences other than time spent to recover? p.p.p.p.s. let's all sing, \"i wanna be a nullbear ranger, livin' a life of virtual danger, sound off...\""
"semantics. risking your ship for more isk is risk. it makes the game considerably more fun, and is the basis of eve. easier, and less profitable. by your logic, maybe they should make the more profitable missions easier?people seek it, but once it's found it is not as fun. giving people everything they desire straight away is not the best way to go about creating a fun game.it's like playing gta with all the cheats enabled, sure, you kill a lot of stuff and you have all the best weapons straight away but it gets really boring really really fast."
"ccp's stance on botting goes back to hilmar's infamous statement earlier this year. players are watching what ccp does, not what they say. judging by threads on this forum, ccp is saying a lot and doing nothing about bots. thus it is a waste of csm time to even bring it up (half of you stand accused of being mass botters yourselves if various comments are to be believed)."
"publishing the number of accounts banned temporarily and permanently for botting every, say, quarter would surely improve trust in ccp's measures. there's no need to publish any details about the accounts or the detection methods, just a pair of numbers."
"the smartphone authenticator is to improve security against account theft, nothing to do with the botting topic obviously."
"keychain authenticators would be a good step in the right direction, tho a bit outdated and with the drawback of having to add yet another dangly bit to your keychain. maybe still good if there are still a lot of ppl lacking smartphones .... a smartphone authenticator app wouldn't take long to write .... heck, they could even charge money for it ... and even enhance the thing over time with some nice functions like displaying evemail & alert notifications, or even some evemon type functionality."
"for me it's simple ban bots and and dudes that sell isk for $, amnesty for those that buy isk but if they will be doing it. ban"
"an update on the keychain authenticator devices would be very good, but i'm pretty sure this topic will come up.while i realise there are a great deal of limitations on what can be discussed in terms of detection methods, measures taken etc in regards to botting and rmt, some more snippets of information would really help. as it stands now, from the moment you press a 'report bot' button on raven navy issue user thuwgzkznw who is in thuwgzkznw corp as it's only member it is unclear what happens next. any feedback on this, however small, is good.you may also log on to eve during this session land a brutix on a mackinaw."
"hmm, well, if that was to happen you would have to be making the fleet command ships adopt the tier ii hulls as opposed to the field command ships. thus you would have:amarr: damnation - harbinger hull (a black habi)minmater: claymore - hurricane hull (pale camo with blue lighting)gallente: eos - myrmidon hull (dark green and grey myrm)caldari: vulture - drake hull ('tehno camo')amarr: absolution - prophecy hull (as normal)minmater: sleipnir - cyclone hull (as normal)gallente: astarte - brutix hull (as normal)caldari: nighthawk - ferox hull (as normal)i would not be opposed to this either. i'm just biased as i tend to fly field command ships.hmm now to decide it i should photoshop those up as well..."
"would be neat, but should be done as part of a broader rebalancing of cs as a whole."
"to all interested pilots....any questions and suggestions welcomed!"
"i would love to see contract (not contact!) information in evegate. new contracts available to me, or contracts issued by me being accepted/completed. the info is already in the api, why not provide an user-friendly interface too.fix whatever is messing up uris with the percent signs in them on the forums.(yea i know people are gonna b!tch about this one) skill queueing via evegate."
"i have a hard time finding my own threads - that's my only complaint with the forums. otherwise, it all works decently."
"i know its been requested before but can we get a csm tag on the forum listings like the dev and gm ones?"
"so many long posts that i forget to copy before posting, only to have the page refresh instead of post... with all content gone.no error, nothing. they should have just licensed an established forum software and worked from there."
"industrial oblitorator,thanks for making an effort to engage au tz players in an event where we can participate without having to set an alarm clock.i do have a few questions though.do you have a more detailed plan?have you responded to ccp with what you exactly want from them?have you got some people to help you organise this event?"
"mate i am working as fast as i can to get this event off the ground.i am working with rd from netgame radio...atm it is just the two of us..i am sure as we move forward we may need more hands on deck.but if ya help cant enter the comp as it may be a conflict of interest.but any assistance would be great.i will have a meeting this weekend to nut out some more details.with that i will respond to ccpi really hope the autz eve community gets onboard.i hope that answers all your questions..it may end up being post the anzac day roam next year at the pace we are going but it will happen.so stay tuned and spread the word.indy0/"
"pew pew pews! wiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii"
"mutual wardecs have their reasons. i'm glad they fixed it so mutual wardecs no longer contributed to a rise in price of incoming wardec prices. but there's still a lot left to be fixed."
"should just make wardecs a set price irrespective of how many wars either corp/alliance has, removing the limitations on number of active wars. then it doesn't matter if people jump/switch corps, there's no such thing as a dec-shield, and players still have the option individually of avoiding a war by joining an npc corp for which they are rightly charged a tax as a consequence."
"i for one really love this idea .... would raise the immersion factor immensely and give the defenders something to fight for rather than just removing all bpo's and supplies from their pos and docking up for the duration of the wardec."
"1. give greater rewards for pvp combat i.e. more lp when you kill someone in the opposing faction.2. give lp rewards for taking over opposing faction's complexes (30k lp divided between fleet members).3. stop opposing faction members from docking in your stations."
"all i have to say is that i'm extremely disappointed that for all the feedback players have been working on for years now, providing volumes of discussion about improvement, that once again we are a brief one-word mention in a thread involving wormholes.we've worked tremendously hard, and written volumes about what we'd like to see, condensed those volumes into lists, linked to them, referenced again, explained in even more volume, more lists, more links, and still, today, both ccp and now the csm are asking us to explain ourselves one more time.asking us to list all these things over again, in the body of a thread like this, is insulting. since apparently this is an agenda proposed by ccp for discussion, can the csm at least acknowledge that they've read the list of small fixes commonly agreed upon by the players, and make a point of sharing this with ccp? i know that no current csm member is a participant in faction warfare, but that doesnt mean that it isn't part of ccp's vision (hilmar said he wanted to see this fixed himself) or part of the player base's vision. faction warfare has nothing to do with wormholes. why the two are included in the same topic list is beyond me. this is probably the most disheartening turn of events in the history of this movement to see iterations on fw. we're finally getting momentum from ccp on development, yet here we are, a single word in the title of a thread, followed by a list of fixes to wormholes, leaving the players to once again beg and plead for even a simple acknowledgment that the list we've compiled will be reviewed and offered to ccp by the csm, during discussions.edit - the csm has indeed responded and been receptive to the list of fixes i've sent them, and have committed to making sure they are posted on the internal csm / ccp forums for debate and possible resolution."
"hans,the reason why faction warfare and wormholes are tackled together is because they're both activities with a minority of players in them. what percentage of eve participates in wormholes and faction warfare? 5% maybe?"
"this is a direct result of years of neglect like this. we were not always a minority activity, its become that way because the fans have mostly given up because they've shared their feedback time and time again only to be ignored.currently statistics on fw participation have very, very little to do with how many players wish faction warfare were given attention. if the csm were to take the time to read the feedback, they would see that fixing faction warfare has far-reaching benefits to the eve playerbase at large - increased fw activity provides a healthy role play environment, an abundance of small-gang warfare that players across the board have begged for, economic incentive to live in lowsec, and a food source for piracy, a classic pillar of eve gameplay. its not just about fw, its about all the other areas of gameplay fw stands to improve should its basic mechanics be fixed. my ongoing fight has been and continues to be not just for the die-hard vets that still participate, but for all the frustrated pilots that have walked away, moved elsewhere, or even left the game because of treatment just like this. its also for every pilot that has ever said, \"i wish there was more small gang pvp\" or \"1 vs 1 fights are dead\" or \"lowsec is worthless and boring\".ccp said they'd include fw in a list of fixes - than failed to elaborate. this hurt the community deeply, and prompted a great deal of feedback that came from many people, fw participants and non-participants alike."
"i know, since i didn't say something like \"my personal list\", it is easy to see how you could have misunderstood that list as the definitive csm list. look, i'm terribly sorry that you feel that everyone is ignoring fw, but i hate to break it to you, most of eve is ignoring fw. like i said to you in eve mail, we don't have anyone on the current csm that participates in fw. if you want us to bring up your little issues, you need to tell us what they are, and having them all in one thread makes that easier.i also think you aren't understanding what trebor and i said to you. we didn't promise you that everything wrong with fw would be fixed, we asked you for a list of smaller issues, because we wanted to have a list to present to ccp. this doesn't mean ccp is going to fix everything wrong with fw in the next patch (or even ever). this summit topic was a ccp requested topic, not a csm requested topic.as far as i can tell, there are far fewer fw folks than people that are living in w-space. of course, fw needs a lot more work to be fixed, where w-space is mostly in good shape.csm 7 secretary csm 6 alternate delegate @two_step_eve on twitter my blog"
"i agree that faction warfare could be so much better, but as it is despite being a gamer that played in lore/rp groups in games like shadowbane and darkfall i have never had interest in participating in faction war in eve as implemented. nothing that happens in fw has much of an impact on the game world outside of those that signed up for it, and even then it's minimal. it's just another themepark ride, devoid of story, sandbox, and meaningful consequences to the world at large.perhaps with some fixes it will appeal to hans and others more, but personally i think it needs a complete overhaul. hans is right though it's hardly surprising that something long neglected by ccp garners little participation from the playerbase"
"thank you for your response, and rest assured i don't have any grandiose expectations about having everything fixed. i'm certainly not naive enough to think that we can just ask and it will be given. also, i'm not naive enough to think that we represent the majority of eve players. i've said that before. my case has always been that improving fw has implications beyond just fw, and i was hoping that the csm could think beyond the one niche community and imagine the possibility that a thriving fw system could provide the type of small-scale combat that players across the game have been asking for, and revitalize lowsec, which has as many issues as nullsec does in terms of broken mechanics and stale activity.i also was never under the impression that you promised it to be fixed either. what i am reacting to, is that you asked for the list of small fixes to be condensed into one thread, which has been done. i guess the misunderstanding here is that by asking in this thread once again to see a list of little fixes, that i interpreted this to mean you hadn't seen the list that has already been compiled. and you're right, you said personal list of fixes, i'm sorry for questioning something that should have been more obvious. i was a little flustered, only because there's only so many times you can asked to provide a list of fixes, than provide them, than asked to provide them again. i will go back and edit my previous post for fairness to your personal list, i apologize for jumping the gun."
"also, since you have clarified that this list was proposed by ccp, and not the csm, i just wanted to add that i am not personally holding the csm responsible for somehow failing us once again.i know that you are not all fw participants, i'm asking you to think beyond a group of niche players and see that lowsec gameplay is stale for the same reasons nullsec is stale - lack of rewards, broken sovereignty mechanics. the things that bother you, bother us in fw as well. think of past csm - their repeated proposals fell on deaf ears because of incarna and wod focus - faction warfare used to be a much larger talking point. please don't punish us for having suffered dwindling numbers due to time and attrition - take advantage of this opportunity now that csm 6 has the privilege to be working with \"the new ccp\", and help us get the attention that is long overdue. our only chance here is for members of the csm to look beyond pure representational demographics and think about fw fixes on the basis of merit, not simply on popular support."
"to clarify again, it wasn't the *list* that was proposed by ccp, it was the session topic.with regards to convincing ccp to work on fw, that is going to have to mostly fall on the *players* not on the csm. one of the things the csm doesn't really do is decide directions for ccp to work on, though we are helpful once said direction has been decided on. if you want ccp to work on fw stuff more, you are going to have to convince them that it is worth working on.csm 7 secretary csm 6 alternate delegate @two_step_eve on twitter my blog"
"i agree with hans when he says that faction warfare could much more than it is. it's not just for roleplayers, it's for anyone that wants a purpose in their fight. not everyone has a chance or wants to join large null sec alliance, but the large scale epic space opera is appealing.faction warfare is the step between highsec npc and null sovereignty wars. i personally think it's good for the game to have people immersed in the story and support their faction. as i said before, it gives them a purpose and pride while they fight the enemy.one thing i would like to see in highsec is more faction division. most capsuleer seem to avoid standing-lowering missions. they aren't choosing side, they are just friendly with all faction. i find that lame. i want division and more fighting. people should feel compelled to pick side. siding with a faction against their enemies should have more advantages. not necessarily in a faction warfare way, but just have better reward for those faction missions.also, two steps, you're from aperture harmonics, so i assume you have an opinion on most things related to wormholes. what's your thought on intensive refining array? do you know the reason why refining in a wormhole comes at such a lost?is that also to promote more movement between known space and wormholes?how much independence do you think wormholes should have?"
"i guess i still have a lot to learn than about what exactly the csm does than. (i'm being serious here, not snarky) it was my understanding that many of you ran on campaigns that stood for things like \"iterations before new features\" and have specifically promoted that ccp redirects its focus from wis to fis. so what i thought i was seeing was a csm that was very much in a position to influence the projects that ccp works on, seeing is how you were such outspoken supporters for the shift away from incarna and world of darkness and back onto \"eve proper\" fixes. you engaged in a media blitz exposing ccp for ignoring the fanbase, than ccp swings around and starts working on features that have been championed by csm members present and past on behalf of the player base.thus, it takes me by surprise to hear you say, (and i still don't fully understand) that \"the csm doesn't really decide the direction for ccp to work on.\" i mean, obviously you can't mandate anything, no argument there, but surely you can (and do) say \"we believe x deserves some attention sooner than y\"?are you implying that current crucible list is comprised of things ccp decided to work on out of a vacuum with or without the csm's advocacy?? again, not at all being sarcastic, i'm genuinely trying to learn about the whole process here, i appreciate your time and patience.edit: greater understanding about the csm / ccp relationship aside, (and i understand that is a discussion topic of its own) my primary concern at this point is making sure you've found and reviewed the top \"little fixes\" we compiled for you in the thread. your email to me asked for a list to be compiled and re-posted, so you could review it with ccp during the summit as long as there was time allocated for it, which they've offered you. i think the community will rest much easier knowing you've found the list and will be sharing it with ccp during the summit. thanks again for your time, we appreciate it."
"why don't class 4 systems have the random outgoing wormholes like the other class types have ? also, why do c4's not have the possibility of getting a k162 from k-space ? in case this is confusing people, occasionally a system can have a wormhole that is not \"typical\" to the system, ie, not one of its static wormholes. as far as i know this never occurs in c4's.i'd like that added."
"hans, two step is right. he is here to represent players as they exist in eve now. not what eve could be.fact is ccp has abandoned the only mechanic for frequent quality small gang and solo pvp for so long , very few of us have stuck with eve. most people who play eve are fine with the blobs and certainly the current csm is fine with it. some of the alternates i think may have an interest in small scale pvp, or at least they did in the past, but its unclear what they can do.not one full delegate on the csm does small scale pvp. it's amazing that ccp still has people clamoring for small scale pvp after they have consistently refused to work on mechanics to bring it about for so long. really when are we going to give it? eve is blob warfare by design. 1000 ship fights make the news in the gamer websites. players who don't like that leave and have left. therefore the csm is going to be players who don't mind the blob and have no real interest in mechanics for small scale and solo pvp.fw isn't going to be something that csm can champion. it's entirely too foreign to them. it will have to be ccp that decides they will finally implement a mechanic that promotes frequent quality small scale pvp.i think the csm can recognize this. the only people who can give much input would be elise randolf and prometheus. even there im not sure prom even knows the mechanics and you may have pissed elise off with all your whining about pls super caps. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"i disagree that fw is the only small gang pvp available. i think that a lot of the folks that went to fw looking for small gang pvp have found it in w-space. i nearly always pvp in fleets of 20 members or lower, often less than 10. if that isn't small gang pvp, i don't know what is. csm 7 secretary csm 6 alternate delegate @two_step_eve on twitter my blog"
"sitting in a wh waiting to gank an industrial is not anything close to what i am after. hans is right fw and wh are completely different playstyles. at least they would be if ccp fixed fw.make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"i don't currently live in a wh, but when i did, one of the most frustrating things was being unable to repackage modules... over time you end up with insane amounts of unpackage items in your hangars (drones, especially...). fixing that would be a godsend."
"100% this. both from an economic perspective, and that of zzzzzz boredom.but judging by the (apparent) damage being inflicted to the eve economy by the comparatively risk-free hisec incursion system, this should also be seriously looked at for the dynamic-spawn scenario..."
"come on, i don't quite understand what's wrong with you guys. awesome idea, supported by 2 csms, we need a dev answer and here we go, content for the next expansion"
"indeed. we want to know which session exactly csm members are planning to bring this up in. broken systems?"
"alright, i appreciate getting that feedback on whose decision it was.well, i hope they're open with you... i've had a lot of my faith in them restored recently, but haven't forgotten that some of the worst moves they've made this year were the ones they didn't tell you about...personally, i take jade constantine's view on mt... i know, it's not 'ideal' for ccp's wallet, but there it is."
"honestly, this post needs to be on every page.invest in what you're good at (spaceships) and let the money flow from there. ccp has made it's success by being unique in the industry, not by copying other companies."
"those suggestions... they either vastly increase isk faucet via insurance, or chase highseccers (92% of total player base) to another mmo, likely both. your other suggestions, like adding insurance value to manufacturing cost, is downright game breaking.you are just interested in \"risk vs reward\" and trying to disguise it as isk faucet/sink issue, when all your suggestions make the isk situation worse. if you ever manage to come up with a good idea that creates isk sink/remove isk faucet, while also just happens to balance risk vs reward without breaking the game, i'm all ears. until then, stop trying to push that thinly disguised agenda where it doesn't belong.i'm not against your ideas because they increases risks. i'm against them because they ruin the economy."
"no goose99, everything you say in your last post has been answered in one of previous posts, except about players leaving. i think what it boils down to is you just want eve to be more of a themepark style mmo. if players came to eve (a supposedly sandbox mmo revolving around pvp) and expected to be able to play a themepark mmo where they're can at no cost never be subject to non consensual pvp then they should leave. further more, eve's long term health as a game would be better off if they did leave as opposed to keep pushing the game further and further away from the sandbox model.oh and are you saying that 92% of players in eve only play in highsec? where is the number from?"
"stats provided by ccp. a bit out of date, but i doubt it changed much.all your ideas ruins the economy, in order to achieve your vision of what eve should be changed into. it's an economy thread. go push your unrelated agenda somewhere else. btw, i now pronounce you the boss of what eve should be."
"my ideas are linked with issues of \"the economy in general\", hence not inappropriately posted here. perhaps you can ask trebor to make a new thread that would by default exclude ideas like mine, such as... \"csm december summit: the economy, specifically how to reward risk aversion and punish risk takers\" or \"csm december summit: space wow, the future of eve\"so only 8% of players have any characters that spend any time in nullsec, lowsec, or wormholes? hmm ok...thanks! ..please inform ccp"
"i finally got my dad to try eve after a few years of talking the game up. he quit after 2 hours of game play, and cited these reasons:1) the font was too small and there was waaayyyyy too much reading2) the ui was difficult to understand and control. he didn<U+FFFD>t know where to click, and even when he found it, the sections had too much text and were not intuitive.3) there were no introductory videos. i.e. talking aurora head / tutorial / anything.i hope these observations help"
"if i remember right and the tutorials remain similar, when you first log in, there is nothing to tell you even \"where\" you are in the universe ... you['re either in a station or in space ... would be nice to have a little \"orientation video\" showing at least a map of the system you start in, how it has stations, gates, asteroid belts, etc., so the new players know at least what to look for (i.e.-ok, i'm floating in space, i can warp to a gate to get to the next system, etc.). maybe add to the video, an overview of the tutorials and what will happen afterwards, so they know they are working towards a goal (i.e. \"the tutorials will show you the basics of eve ... then you can pursue employment with x y z corps or epic arcs\", etc. etc.).also, eve's training system by nature causes noobs to feel \"bored\"/like they don't have any reason to keep playing while they are waiting for skills to train .... other mmo's force you to keep playing to build skills ... now, i love eve's (offline) training system, but would be nice if we could to find a way to make noobs feel like they have a reason to keep playing to build their skills .... maybe giving out many more skill books during the tutorials (like one every mission) .... or hopefully others can come up with something even better. maybe let them earn skillpoints for running missions during the tutorials? (there could be all kinds of different ways of limiting this to keep it from being abused, but still provide that addictive incentive for new players to keep playing ...).currently the sentiment usually turns to \"oh, i'll just log out for a few days while a train my basic skills\" ...."
"although i completely disagree with your 'gauntlet' idea for new players - as it's far too extreme - what you've written above could hardly be more true.i've gone through the new player experience already, for all of the races, just to see what it's like... playing it as if i were completely new, and although it's much much better than when i first started playing, there's still plenty of room for confusion.for instance, in addition to what you've already mentioned, there's the problem of shared artwork - i might be learning about fitting minmatar guns, but the picture in front of me that i'm hoping will help is showing amarr...i also found that the tutorial text windows were quite difficult to read (my resolution is very high), and i think a lot of new gamers would get frustrated at this, because learning to play something fun shouldn't reek of :effort: of course ui scaling is going to be a massive help there, but how on earth is a noob going to find the option - unless we do npe v.2"
"yes, let players make the content; then characters can become eve famous designers or at least see their work in-game. all submissions must agree to relinquish all copyright claims on the design or whatever your legal team decides.let us, the players, help fix these half finished features."
"not sure if this should come under art or 'little things'put in some dual monitor support for walking in stations. whilst there is an alter camera position function it only changes which shoulder you are looking over. your character is still always slap bang in the center ie. right on the overlap between your two monitors. we have this function in space so you move the focus onto the center of one monitor or the other and use the second monitor for other stuff (chat channels, comms etc). please duplicate this function in stations. i can't see it being a big fix to do."
"why are both those systems mentioned, when your list of fixes is only restricted to wormhole issues?if you are not bringing forth and championing faction warfare issues, who will be? i am greatly concerned that even after being asked via private email discussions with several csm members to provide csm with a condensed list of top small fixes, not a single small fix was included in your list of discussion points.what assurance do we have that a \"fw and wormholes\" discussion does not simply mean \"wormholes\" discussion??this kind of casual name-dropping is exactly what the community is outraged at ccp for doing with the winter expansion, i had gained a lot of respect for the csm because of their responsiveness to us but now that the agenda is posted, it feels like the csm is paying lip service much like ccp has been. we deserve more than to be a name in a thread title with no concrete fixes being proposed by any csm members, even despite being handed a list by the community.i sincerely hope that i am misunderstanding the csm here, and am open to hearing how you all feel about this subject. i think i can speak for the faction warfare community though in that by saying \"post your list of little things for discussion here\" feels much like charlie brown being asked to come kick the field goal for the umpteenth time while lucy holds the football."
"mine.i try to read everything people send me on relevant topics, and i try and point interested csms and devs to relevant materials as appropriate.ccp appears to be staying largely in \"fixing little things\" mode for the next expansion, so we want to have hitlists of possible smaller tweaks that can improve the current features of the game, including fw.getting feedback from interested players, in the public discussion thread and via links to other threads, is particularly important in the case of fw tweaks, since afaik the current csm has little direct experience with fw."
"when the plex market truly crash, the damage would've been done and it would've been too late to salvage.the fact that it dropped by 50 mil in 3 days actually does more damage than it rising 100 mil a week prior. it has everything to do with fluctuations, and nothing to do with actual price. subscription price must remain stable, too \"high\" or \"low\" is a matter of opinion.[/quote]"
"why?if you're going to \"soulbind\" plex you might as well remove them. before we had plex people still traded in gtc for isk, its just there was little to no oversight, no logs to check for scams, no easy way to check which codes are lost forever and which are being held. the situation was objectively worse. its naive to think that if you remove the ability to trade plex openly people won't just go back to the grey market."
"more damage to whom, or to what?"
"the price of a subscription hasn't changed in almost 9 years."
"the damage hasn't been done and won't be done. real life subscription and plex prices are stable with subscription prices remaining pretty much unchanged for years. again, no one is required to participate in the plex program. it's an in-game commodity in an economy forever bloated by automagically renewing resources and barely balanced by ship use. there is plenty of money to go around despite the cries of ccps seeming favorite player segment whining against all common sense and reality that that income, aka \"bloat\", should be re-balanced to benefit the people who go out of their way to spend money rather than invest it and make a profit, despite ccp setting up the game to not only allow for it but to promote it.plex causes a lot more money to be dumped into an already bloated economy. if it wasn't bloated, prices would be going down not up as plex are not exactly rare. the fact is lots of people have discretionary income to dump into plex and they are doing so. plex prices will reflect perceived market value but they won't hurt subscriptions because of pricing. subscription prices aren't changing, the in-game cost of \"free\" game time is. if real life plex purchases don't outstrip the income, the price won't come down much. i don't see what all the fuss is about."
"really imagine this...right now moon mining is a tightly controlled, superpower only operation. the chances for any player to enter this market are nill thanks to alliances dictating control / conditions.a post like this happens about every week on s&i:."
"does the realease of dust514 is still planned for this summer ?was thinking that we would have some feature related to dust in this winter expansion, which is apparently not the case"
"1. um, you realise jumpdrives are for capital class vessels that are banned from entering hisec, right2. you do realise this is how a normal warpdrive works3. wtf?4. and if you're not in your pod, how are you expected to interface with the ship5. wtf... i don't even?6. what purpose does that give you?other than the complete fail of understanding how certain things work in the game (specifically, the controls), you've essentially described stealth bombers and assault frigates..."
"this is probably the simplest and most elegant solution to countering the \"bring 1000 friends for 10 minutes\" solution that is sov warfare. the higher the sov level, the longer the timer.this also gives the defender a chance to actually fight, and requires the attacker to maintain a physical, attackable presence 23/7 (or some other new timer) in the system--else the timer reverses and counts up. a defense fleet has a chance to form up properly (just like the attacking fleet had) and move to counter. more small - med sized fights here as getting 1,000 pilots to stay logged on all day would be near impossible.i would caveat that instead of benchmarks; have alliance member count (paid, non-trial accounts only) determine the number of systems an alliance can control. then, increase the sov cost exponentially:1-4 systems = 200 mil / month each (10+ members)5-9 systems = 300 mil / month each (25+ members) 10-20 systems = 500 mil / month each (75+ members)the numbers are irrelevant and used as an example. they are for the csm and ccp to agree upon.the point here is to make sov blobs more difficult and allow start-up alliances to steak claim in null."
"having been in fw as an rp'er (read: active plexer) since it started i would very much advise against that. the timer system is badly thought out and poorly implemented, the amount of wasted time is staggering and has turned the plexing scene into one of disposable alt spamming.the only thing that fw might contribute directly is the hull size restriction on plexes, whomever cooked that one up deserves a medal. sovereignty plexes should lean towards incursion system with objectives to be handled within each, be it a series of hacks, salvage, ehp grinds or something entirely different .. anything but a thumb-twiddle timer.and what is to prevent the current blocs from still controlling everything? what you are proposing is pretty much what we have now, the amount of \"dead space\" will just increase as will the amount of slaves/pets to fill some of them.for any type of isk based maintenance system to work you must first address the passive faucets which currently allow for a critical mass (read: blob big enough to effectively prevent any fights) entity to hold infinite space..- re-introduce the capital system.- put limits on what infrastructure can be maintained and defended outside of home constellation/region.* if current tz timers are kept then it could be a linear decrease in reinforcement timers based on range for instance so that a tower on the other side of the cluster has 0hrs regardless of stront.- counter that with significant boons to be had \"at home\" (ex: production, defense, harvesting etc.)* allows for manufacturing centres which may (or may not) develop into trade hubs. improves local production/viability (helps cut jita umbilical) and thus the small operation (read: alliances new to null).- increase maintenance costs by system count and distance.- give skirmish/roam fleets ability to impact space more than popping haulers and docking ratters up.* holding space should mean that it requires patrols, a police force if you will. the idea that you can sit by the hearth and only go to war on the weekends to defend your land is stupid to put it mildly.in short: early dominion vision was throttled at birth and what was launched was a shadow of what was announced in the planning blogs. combat has not been spread out, small gangs have no place, independents don't exist and everything is imported.even shorter: almost the entire thing needs to be redone."
"as the previous poster said, just don't fly a hulk. either fly a mining fit rokh or grab a covie and insure it. a covie will have about 80-90% of the yield of a hulk and cost <5m after insurance."
"ask them how it felt to be *****-slapped by their customer base with such force that they did an about face!and please, make them understand that the requirement of better communication extends beyond their comfort zone, they have improved but they tend to turtle when something they say is hammered .. as in a blurp or two in a thread resulting in an outcry and then absolute silence on the topic as a whole, it is the raison d'etre of community management hires."
"i don't think the csm should be rubbing ccps nose in the fact they did an about face to refocus on spaceships, they should be praised for that, ccp made the right choice...and better late than never. but the refocus on core gameplay with crucible needs to ccps new long term focus, not something done once to take the heat off them.they need to keep improving their communication with players, an example of good communications would be matt higby over at sony for the upcoming planetside2. on the whole they need to be very open and transparent on their plans for eve in terms of direction and intent. there's a lot of long outstanding issues with eve that they need to address rather than continued to be brushed under the rug. issues that in many cases ccp will have to choose between diametrically opposed player group interests. clarity and foreknowledge of where eve is heading is better for all concerned than continued ambiguity. key to this ccp needs to decide what kind game eve is, because sometimes i don't think they know or have decided yet."
"people arnt happy with how the voting system works for the csm at the moment (the number of anti-mittani and anti-nullsec only csm as examples). maybe a review is needed to see if the current methods work, or possibly to explore other avenues. i have no firm suggestions as to what other methods, but some have been mentioned on the forums and theres real life examples that can be used and possibly incentives to vote in the next csm elections."
"8x neutron blaster cannon ii, void l.i think that'll convey the message nicely ..."
"i have been getting a bit concerned about the new battlecruisers going to be introduced in crucible.mainly my concern is these ships pack quite a punch and i am afraid they are going to be used to gank miners all over eve.i have tested this on sisi and one tier 3 battle cruiser can destroy a hulk in a few seconds. and i did not even use faction ammo. or t2 guns..so i think the miners are going to be the big loosers in this new expansion.could ccp maby think of introducing a new mining barge with stronger armor and/or shields?or even let the rorqual into high sec space to provide some protection for the now verry vulnrable mining barges?"
"working as intended. make friends, go to lowsec, your friends can shoot the bad guys before they open fire (i.e. there's no concord to punish you).perhaps this will be the first of the hammer blows to the great wall of carebear..."
"^^this honestlyi remember back when i was an officer in a mining corp, semi-disbanded as we all started our own corps.we actually forbid corp members from mining in high-sec, as it gives crap isk per hour and we were adjacent to lowsec anyways.honestly low-sec is pretty damn safe, all you need is a nice mining system and 4-5 australians from a friendly merc corp (as in they were people we built ships for, so they had an investment to protect), and our guys would mine decent-value ores all day with rarely a neut in system for more then 5 seconds.basically, even if these new bc's are \"hulk-killers\", last checked they can go down fairly quick, get a well-balanced defense fleet of 4-5 ships, and you shouldnt have any problems."
"yeah, one of my corpmates pulled up sisi (maybe yesterday?) .. talos has something like1500 shield1900 armour2100 hull it'll be scrapmetal in 3-4 solid hits from large weapons..."
"confirming resists don't exist, and tier 3 bc doesn't have the sig of a cruiser.i'd be more concerned about mineral -> ship prices if i were you.and btw, with the buffed dessie, catalyst pumps out 900 dps overheated (no, you won't need those guns later). i know what i will be using for the next hulkagaddon, and it's not the tornado."
"yeah, nice in theory (just round up a team of 10 people anytime you want to mine) .... not realistic for most people really .... maybe this will decrease solo mining, and raise mineral prices ... which a lot of people in eve want ... but for noobs & those who want to simply log in each night for a few hours of unscheduled eve'ing around, maybe they'll either need to learn to be satisfied with pve mission running, etc., or maybe they will just feel like the game got a bit more hassle than it's worth, and just quit - will be interesting to watch for sure.queue the \"you don't know how to play eve b/c you don't play like us\" rants now ...."
"this is the talos' stats from chruker.dk:em/ex/kin/thermshield -- 0/50/40/20 (1750 base hp)armour -- 50/10/35/35 (1890 base hp)hull -- 0/0/0/0 (2160 base hp)sig radius is 200m. sig resolution on meta 4 neutron blasters is 400m.ideally you're hitting 50% of the time.base damage of antimatter is 28 kin/20 therm, weapon modifier (4.41x) brings you up to 123.48 kin/88.2 therm8 weapons = 987.84kin/705.6 therm per volley before even factoring in skills and ship bonuses (1693.5 overall)... or critical/glancing blows... which will admittedly change the numbers a bit.shields take 592.7 kin/564.5 therm damage per volley (1157.2 overall) (assuming 100% shields, 1 volley leaves you at 34%)armour takes 642.1 kin/458.6 therm damage per volley (1100.7 overall) (assuming 0% shields, 100% armour, 1 volley leaves you at 41%)hull takes everything (1693.5) (assuming 0% shields, 0% armour, 1 volley leaves you at 21%)since we're not accounting for the skill modification of these numbers (or modules, drones, ship bonuses, etc), looks like it'll take 5-6 solid hits with the base stats of the guns and resists.looking at the offensive side, the talos gets 5% bonus to damage per bc level, so you're looking at an additional 15% damage at base skills to be in the ship... plus an additional 5% for large hybrid turret ... so with just the base skills to be in one of these new bcs:shields take 1397.3 overall (assuming 100% shields, 1 volley leaves you at 20%)armour takes 1329.1 overall (assuming 0% shields, 100% armour, 1 volley leaves you at 30%)hull takes everything (2044.9) (assuming 0% shields, 0% armour, 1 volley leaves you at 5%)since we're not accounting for additional modifications to the numbers (modules, skills, drones, etc), looks like 4 solid hits would be enough to convert the talos into scrap.my op stands"
"just to be clear ... \"great wall of carebear\" ... mmmm .... why would we want to discourage carebears exactly?i mean, most people start out as solo players in hisec ... and even those who never choose to become pvp'rs, still pay their subs .... so, what's with the \"declare war on carebears\" tact exactly? why would we want to drive them away from the game? (some will adapt but as always there will be unsub casualties)"
"there is only one tier3 bc coming this winter .. winmatar arty boat as requested by griefer/ganker leet pvp'ers on csm and for ccp to get the whole art competition fiasco out of the way.the three other ships will probably not see much use (comparatively) and are included because adding just the winmatar hull would make the whole thing too obvious."
"is it actually possible to fit a rack of 1400 iis on one without some serious gymnastics with fitting mods? :vwait, i forgot, you're a troll."
"i'm an industrialist. i mine when i want to relax and not deal with anything else. however, i have also engaged in pvp when it's been necessary (mostly wardecs against corps i've been in). the \"great wall of carebear\" is the idea that every gate in every lowsec system is camped 24x7 with people who are shoot first, then laugh at the victim (or some idea that is very similar). since \"all\" of the carebears believe in this perma-camping of the border systems, they're viewed as being completely not worth it. in essence, it creates a wall between hisec and lowsec.tbh, i absolutely hate the people who whine and cry that they should be allowed to mine or whatever without anyone ever being allowed to shoot them or wardec them or anything... what i'm hoping with the new battlecruisers, and the new direction that ccp is taking in general is that hisec starts to become less safe overall. not just in the \"hey, people can lolgank you faster\" sense, but also in altering some of the other mechanics to promote people from different walks of life to work together.reduce concord response times, maybe remove them from 0.5 (swap with faction navies), maybe add the navies to 0.4 as well to help reduce the feeling of an immediate break from \"safety\" to \"not safe\". essentially, make it so that having \"defences\" in 0.5 are warranted and so that they actually can do something without getting concordokken (as it is now). get people to be familiar with pvp, get people more incentives to work together -- rather than bringing an orca and 5 hulks in a 0.5 mining op, maybe you'll be bringing the orca, 2 hulks, ecm/point, and 2 bs..."
"ahhh ok ... you mean the wall of losec gatecamps surrounding hisec ... verry interesting yes.well, i still don't see how making ganking easier (and dumber) really improves things for anyone other than the gankers ... \"well, we can't really think of any new content for the game ... but to keep ppl from getting bored, let's create some new gank boats ... that will entertain the bitter vets and lazy griefers for awhile\" ... hehehe.fun for the gankers .... but really, how many ppl want to be gankers? it's gotta be the least mentally challenging activity in eve ... \"yay, i can log in and gank someone with only 2 months of skills, i'm such an elite eve player, woohoo!\" ... riiiight.does ganking carebears really ever convert them into pvp'rs btw?"
"it is not the point to convert them into pvpers. you are misunderstanding a lot of things here.carebear makes shittons of isk. pirate makes his money by taking a bit of that. it's pretty ******* simple.for example:farmer grows some wheat. evil bandit comes and steals his crops and wife.i think it should be pretty straightforward to understand.the one could argue about meaningfulness of game mechanics which makes this possible but currently there is no better way.also, a lot of you do not understand that it takes time and effort to find good \"gank\" in pretty similar way than exploring works. you keep scanning until you hit something which might get you something valuable. even then there's risk of failure unless you try to play safe, which means profit is reduced to pretty minimum. for most of people it's just easier to carry on and do incursions."
"^ pretty much this, with the addition that the farmer gets some of his town guard buddies to help him go the the unknown forest hideout (lowsec) of the thief to rescue the damsel... ... and hopefully whilst they're there, they catch on that there are some ways to get wealth in the forest (lowsec), and start getting those goods too -- the farmer knows what people will pay for, and the town guard makes sure the farmer can get the stuff..."
"wow, now, you're actually right ... the professional ganker, i could actually have some respect for ... skill-wise i mean ... still ... is this really what the game is all about? either nullsec blob warfare, or ruining other ppl's days? ... from destroyable customs houses, better, cheaper weapons for gankers, and too many \"nerf hisec and anyone who isn't a ganker or a nullbear\" rumors to count ... is it just me or does this game really just hate anyone who doesn't want to either a) play the \"bad guy\" b) be nullsec \"meatshield #75468\", or at least c) become willing pvp cannonfodder? these are all fine and great goals for some people (not enough though it would seem, based on subscriber numbers). is it really anathema to be someone who just wants to mind their own business and build cool stuff, run missions, etc.?maybe it's all that eve is intended to be and nothing more .... then again ... maybe it's why we don't have more players ...."
"eve is a pvp game. remember that."
"if shooting carebears is pvp then throwing dynamite into a pond must count as fishing.doesn't matter if it can fit a full rack of 1400 ii's .. you can get away with using tech1 for a majority of targets and for the harder targets you downgrade one or two. suicide ganking is not rocket science .. this idiot concept just lowers the bar and cost associated with it."
"you should log into sisi and see how well it stands."
"quick point: incursion lp store is a sink, not faucet.the high sec isk payout should be nerfed, especially vanguards *gasp*! but seriously, making billions is easy and safe isk in highsec. i<U+FFFD>ve made a liquid bil in a day before and i<U+FFFD>ve only been at risk three times--2 disconnected logi, and 1 fail fc.second, mining is broken<U+FFFD>especially ice mining.please see this post as a conversation starter:"
"and the consequence of that is that people who only want to do mining or industry and not get involved in combat (whatever their reasons are) do not have a place in 0.0. an entire area of the game is obsoleted because even a corporation of industrialists can't utilize the resources well enough to compete with one person with a (jump) freighter. this is bad design. contrary to popular belief, 0.0 should not just be a supercap pvp arena. nullsec should be a place to build empires."
"i agree. the is currently providing us with all the information we need to do our space-pew-pew, but it is doing so in an inefficient way. i currently play eve on a 22'' screen. to receive all the information about \"what exactly is going on around me\", my overview need to cover 25% of the screen. all i can think is that it must be a better and more intuitive way to display this information. it would be highly appreciated (by me at least) if ccp did a completely new ui. not a just redesign, but a completely new design. there has to be a better way to put all the needed info on the screen, as well as a better way to combine mouse and keystrokes to navigate. eve is a beautiful game, it is just a shame that it is hidden behind all these windows."
"dear ccp,fyi, i have heard that on 25.nov.2011, nexon has disclosed thatthey have asked their local (south korea if i understand correctly) for help because1. data base for their mmo game 'maple story' has got hacked on 18.nov,2. information of as many as 13.2 million players has been stolen.ccp, could you please give us jp-players two options for account billing like below ?option-a : i need local language support and agree with playing eve online by paying nexon, oroption-b : i do not need local language support and keep current billing system, no relation to nexon.i wish you would consider this seriously.jami"
"no, no, no... the others are fine. but the eos is a drone boat... the astarte is a blaster platform. it makes more sense that the myrm hull becomes a more specialized done ship than a pure gunboat."
"mate, this has already come up in the thread and been covered. nowhere is it written that t2/fraction ships have to follow the format of there t1 hull counterpart:ferox - gunshipnighthawk - missileboatprophecy - gunshipdamnation - missleboatscorpion - ew platformnavy issue scorpion - missileboatrattlesnake - missile/drone boatjust because a myrm is a drone boat it does not mean that any ship that used the same model has to follow suit."
"please refrain from making this thread in every sub forum. topic may be discussed in events and gatherings."
"no more thoughts on this?"
"i forgot to mention something that needs to be added to the forums;-> clicking a dev marker should jump directly to the dev comment"
"i will give you a simple reason why i keep all my factions at high standing...i plan to play this game a year from now and perhaps even 2 years from now.i do not want to be \"stuck\" just to minmatar space or caldari space just cause i wanted to run a couple fw things for a couple months.the whole faction standing needs a bit of work, as it takes waaaaayyyy tooo long to grind out missions to get the standing back.so you may find it lame...i find it lamer that it prevents me from playing other aspects of the game i might want to do later in life. why would i pay for an account if i am only going to screw up my character and i suddenly can only play in 1 faction's space.wormholes jump out to every system possible - even there - i would be limiting myself to gameplay."
"there is no good mechanic in eve for frequent quality small scale pvp. when i join fw i want to constantly have plexes to go and fight over. ccp should strive to have 2-5 decent pvp fights per hour happening in fw. if people want to continue with the current game where you might wait around for hours for a single gank they wouldn't want to join fw. however i think allot of people would love it if the pvp action came allot faster than it currently does. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"i completely understand cearain. but you and i are players too, and there's nothing wrong with asking the csm to share information with ccp. that's really all i'm trying to do here, is take what i've heard from the people i interact with, consolidate it, and send the message up the chain that this is what we see is broken, this is what would benefit the game if it were fixed. also, that we see faction warfare as an area where minimal fixes can reap great reward in terms of enhanced gameplay and activity.you and i have a different background than two step, that's totally cool. i truly appreciate the diversity of activities there are in the game, and really want there to continue to be a variety of vibrant and unique forms of gameplay each with its own set of challenges and rewards. wormholing is indeed a place where small gang pvp can occur, and it is also one of the areas that is essentially supercap and titan free. but just because two step and i have spent time in different areas of the game doesn't mean i'm somehow ineligible to say anything to him and have him pass it along during a summit talk. all i can do is ask, and if i didn't at least ask i would be doing my own community a disservice, regardless of whether two step shares our lists of fixes with ccp.and two step - i understood you, when i meant \"the list\" i mean the topics list - i'm saying its not your fault that the topic is called \"little things: fw and wormholes\". no one should be seeing the csm as somehow trying to \"belittle\" us by using that phrasing, cause it was ccp's words not yours. the other list you posted is your own, which rightfully so is focused on wormhole fixes because that's your background. you have your wish list, i've compiled a wish list on behalf of the faction warfare community, i'm just confirming that you're talking about both during the summit. whether cearain feels you represent me or not, you had offered to share our list, so i'm simply following up is all."
"fw: the most important changes what need. no docking permissions for the enemy fw participants in occupied enemy controlled systems.let a sense be given the fight for starsystems."
"speaking up for fw here, and repeating again for crystal clarity:the op has been edited to list the top trending fw issues with a description of each, and the threadnought that follows goes into extreme depth, should any more clarification be needed:"
"i really wish i could set up a station in a wormhole.cloning bay, market orders, all in w-space. although the market would probably have to be limited to only displaying the solar system.maybe this ruins the manliness of living out of a pos with no reliable access to regular space to rely on. and it might make it way too easy to turtle up and make these impenetrable w-space fortresses. but sometimes i just want to dock up.i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"qft. the current game design has a greater-than-unity power scaling function for fleets -- it's almost always, if not always, increasing the size of your fleet, which leads to a mutual runaway to the blob. i raised this issue in my original csm5 campaign, coining \"fleets expand to fit the lag available\".tidi will address some of the technical issues with lag, but it also opens headroom to permit even larger blobs, so it's only really buying time; eventually the fleets will get big enough to make the tidi factor so large that it'll be unplayable. ccp really needs to change the mechanics to get away from the \"dirtbag is primary, everyone shoot dirtbag. douchenozzle is secondary...\" blob fights we have now.wrt fw, if changes are made that make it more popular without addressing the underlying combat mechanics issues the game faces, it'll just blob up."
"could you elaborate a little more on what you meant by this? i was wondering which changes you are referring to in terms of popularity, and which underlying mechanics issues you speak of."
"i think that's probably a good idea. here's the summarized version of hans' compiled list of requested fixes from the fw community: quick fixes1.) have plexes spawn throughout the day instead of primarily after downtime.2.) pirate frigates shouldn't be allowed in minor plexes. 3.) repping a militia member with low security status should not kill faction standing. 4.) repping a friendly low sec status militia member who is a victim of aggression should not result in gcc.5.) give some kind of highly visible alert or intel system for when territory is threatened. big fixes1.) make plexing more rewarding.2.) balance faction npcs.3.) change fw missions so they can't be soloed in a stealth bomber.4.) make fw sov do something, rather than being meaningless as it is at present.the full, expanded list can be found here:"
"something else i'll chime in on here.it's not up to us to throw around estimated statistics of fw or wh popularity, or to compare them, or to then decide which issues have merit.there is a strong voice in the eve community asking for recognition and development time. the voice is strong enough that it has been heard by ccp employees, discussed by ccp employees, sent up the chain by ccp employees, to the point where the ceo, the man in charge of the entire company, has heard it, considered it, and deemed it weighty enough to directly reference it's need for work in a very important letter to the entire community.that should be enough for everyone. if we just stick to the simplest communication here, it will be best for everyone.what are the issues?are the issues clear to the csm?can the csm communicate them clearly to ccp?sourem itharen > congratulations lady kadesh, you have been selected by trial of fire and blood, under the watchful eyes of god, to represent lord khanid as his champion in the imperial succession trials -yc117"
"now with the new carbon engine implemented a few more shurtcuts would be nice. for example a shortcut for the 'analyse' button in the scanner window."
"i've chatted with 2 (that i know of) previously, but not for a while now. i have a feeling the proposal is currently in nda-land or \"wait for an opportune time\"-land. i don't know much about how csm operates, but i hope it's not based on \"attach a bunch of riders to this bill\"-land so common in us politics."
"nerf incursion rewards. seriously. halve them across the board, they'll still be very good."
"1/2 would mean incursions pay the same or a little less than missioning. with all of the hassle of finding and organizing a fleet. and the time of jumping out to the incursion. might as well say remove incursions..."
"nerf missions too?"
"well if your message is 'nerf everything that does not fit my favorite play style' i assure you that is a common enough position. lame, but common."
"well some more general ideas in short form, many have allredy been suggested in the forums. maybe you like 1 or 2.real estate:the basic idea is that people can buy/sell production slots and maybe office slots at npc stations.in these slots you can install spezialized production machines, in lowsec and 0.0 you can also install illegal machines.they only give boni to production times of specific item groups (ammo, frigates ..), also faction machines could be possible that give better or more specific boni. for example a \"sansha production machine\", that produces sansha ships in half the time or so, but nothing else.they only change production time, cause if they would change material needs they would become mandatory.i would suggest to only sell 1/2 or 3/4 of all npc slots at one station and only in system that had an incursion. this shall prevent that one party dominates all slots in empire and that all slots are gone after the first day. it would also make sense rp wise, cause corps that maintained these slots flee from sanshas. at the first time, they are sold with an auction from the npc corp that owns the station.they also should have a monthly maintenance cost (land tax). if it can not be paid, they are auctioned again.they could also become a material sink if they need something like a fuel.at player owned outposts, the machines can be installed by the owning corp, maybe selling these slots there could be nice, but you will lose everything when the outpost get's conquered and the slots can be sold again by the new owning corp, cause they are allowed to confiscate the slots.some more buttons in production menu would also be nice then:\"choose next free slot\" <- usefull atm too\"choose cheapest slot\"\"choose fastes slot\"mission distribution:it would be nice to be able to ask an agent for a fast to complete mission or maybe a longer mission. so if you just have 30 min or so to play, you can just log in and do something without risking to get a scarlet the piratdingbums mission or something long.\"micro-outposts\":basically spezialized structures that can be placed somewhere in space and that have only one function of an outpost.those services can be taxed like in an outpost, they don't have to be conquered, they belong to the corp having sov in the system and they can be disabled like outpost services today.examples:repair outpost - basic repair servicestorage outpost - limited corporate hangar array in space (usefull for mining maybe)refinery outpostautomated shipyard's - just an idea, but thing about an array in space, where you can place an bpo and minerals and it automaticly builds ships, ammo and whatever without using a prodslot of a pod-pilot. if they are conquered, the enemy gets everything in the array. like a complex reactor array with silos at a pos.they can be limited to one per region or constellation or system.pleae no new pos modules for this, cause pos can only be used by one corp and have many risk's associated. (run out of fuel, getting sabotaged by corpmembers, geting killed)they also don't offer some services that an outpost have, like a usefull refinery, repair services, maybe the market and a place to work with contracts (very important for corp internal logistiks and othe things).corp-npc-standing:something that bugs me every time i think about it. why is the corporate standing towards npc corps based on the average standing of every member with standing towards this corp. so if you bring a new pilot to a npc corp to do missions for them, your corpstanding towards them drops until he reaches the former average standing. i would love to see that it works like the system from players, where you get a bit of standing for every mission. so normal corps can use pos in empire without using a alt-corp for it and jumpclone services and so on... wardeccing another corp cause of an moon would also be more predicable, cause you never know who's altcorp owns the moon you want.tower defense in eve - player created complex:well, this is just a small idea i had. but what if players could design complexes, with a limited amount of parts for npc factions, that get placed in space. you could influence spawntimes, spawnplaces, position of gates and sentryguns and other things with limits. you get paid based on the time players need to complete it and maybe boni for destroyed ships, but this could be exploitet, so just small boni, worth less than the ships. maybe you could place them for pirat factions in highsec, the longer they survive the more money you get from the pirat faction. they could also become lowsec pockets in empire and you could defend them actively.minions:we already have npc-technicans as npc loot. why not use them during production jobs, to accelerate them. they can be specialized like the scince skills, so you have teams for battleship construction or maybe faction teams and so on.they can be sold directly by npc corps, or you buy a basic \"student\" that can be trained in a special pos-modul or maybe later at planetary colonies.maybe they have a monthly cost (loan) asociated or paid per job, i would prefer the first."
"great running out of space... heres the rest:a more advanced market system:in todays system, you only create buy and sellorders, which get processed automaticly, so you can not choose to buy from someone or not to buy from someone.i would like to see a system, like in other games, where you can choose to buy from one person and not only just the cheapest one.it would also be nice if you could choose, which persons are allowed to buy your goods for what price, too.so if you press the advanced button in the sellorder screen, you can have the following options:- set price for alliance/ don't sell to- set price for corp/ don't sell to- set price for blue/ don't sell to- set price for neutral/ don't sell to- set price for red/ don't sell towhen you open the screen the prices get automaticly set to the price set in the standard sell-screen, so you don't have to c&p everything and can only change the thing you like (maybe only better price for corpmembers).the same could be done with advanced buyorders.with this system you could create internal markets for corps/alliances or even trade-coalitions without the fear that someone just comes by, buys everything and relists it or you could start more or less effective trade-blockades against other corps (neutral tradealts are still available but less pleasant).for example i don't want to trade with people in privateers, cause i think they are a lame bunch of loosers without balls, but i want to buy veldspar from chribba just for the lulz, if it only costs 0.01 isk more^^. or if i buy my monthly plex, i would prefer to buy it from someone in my alliance and not someone in pl or the drf.this maybe could also prevent 0.01 isk games, where people without a life can dominate a market. this would still be a valid tactic, as people can still choose just to buy from the cheapest one, but there will also be a way around it if you have good connections to some other people and get better prices than the rest.to prevent confusion, the market screen should have 2 additional informations for every order:- \"your price\", where the price is shown you would have to pay/get- owner of the order with a tag like in local or in the show info screen- the price of today will then be the price for neutral standingsand maybe some filtering options.thanks for reading."
"big picture - roll-out korean, spanish, and indo-aryan (india) localizations of the game client. eve needs to grow for the health of ccp and the gaming experience. this sandbox needs more diverse sand. - put pirate faction pos bpc<U+FFFD>s in their lp store. - seed navy tier 3 bs in the faction warfare lp stores. - fleet boosters should be required to be outside a pos and on-grid. - update the ui to retain trial users and older adults. - capital rigs: should battleship rigs really fit on a titan? this will also increase the cost of caps, which is a good thing. especially for t2 rigs.pve <U+FFFD> balance faucets / sinks - increase lp payouts for missions and reduce liquid isk payouts (including incursions) - increase isk cost of lp store items and lower lp cost. thus preventing a crash and retaining item valuesov - scale sov cost exponentially, thus preventing super sov blocs<U+FFFD>but not necessarily power projection."
"remove drone poo... ore to miners...a little increase in prices is good for market/economic with big amounts of money... and for eve itself (too easy to get big ships)and more ppl will start to mine again - less ppl grinding isk in the economy.that's a balance between that 2 things..."
"pvp is the biggest material sink in this game, and dumping more materials in the game encourages people to pew in more (materially) expensive ships due to availability. so pvp is a material sink that grows to compensate any material inflation. isk sinks are pretty much fixed in place and do not balance the amounts of isk flooding into eve.if inflation is inevitable this is why material inflation is more desirable to isk inflation i think the reward systems in eve (missions, anoms, incursions) should move away from isk rewards and towards material rewards.this is also why i like the lp store. lp can't be traded between players and can only be turned in for certain items at certain stations. lp is basically materials waiting to happen.on a slightly related note, the one thing that would really make mining more profitable is to crack down on botting. the reason you don't make isk mining for 2 hours on the weekend is because some botter is running 15 hulks somewhere in highsec 23/7 flooding the market with minerals. not because of drone salvage, (ok well drone botting is hurting the system but that's the bot's fault not the rogue drones!)i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"my general comment is that (as some people have already pointed out) botting seriously messes up the economy.a friend of mine played this game back before the first titan was built, and he laughed at the idea that anyone would be able to any reasonable number of them ever. he was also afraid of lvl4s, because it supposedly took 5-6 coordinated people, much like incursions or c5/c6 hw sites.if ships (especially caps and supercaps) were much much much more minerally intensive, nerfing them might not have been so important because there would not be nearly so many. people like cheap ships, but it was not that long ago that ship prices were set by insurance rather than minerals because minerals were so cheap.i think the economy would be healthier if a serious effort to stop bot mining were made, not to mention help the poor miners that are actually people. (and for those people who say we wouldn't have any ships without botters, you have it wrong. if there were no bots, and nobody wanted to mine, prices would eventually rise to the point that mining would be more profitable than incursions/lvl4s, and then more people would mine, and then prices would fall, and then...it would work like a functional economy.)finally, on the whole isk source/sink thing. problematically, ccp is determined to get rid of npcs selling stuff, and not having massive inflation, while letting people get more and more isk. good luck. stuff can be created and destroyed. isk can be created, but it is much more difficult to find reasonable ways to destroy it. i think the best solution (not that this would happen in a million years, its just a theoretical suggestion,) is to get rid of all sources and sinks of isk. all of them.replace all rewards/costs that used to be isk with some physical item/mineral/tags that can be used and destroyed, and require transportation. make skillbooks bought with some of this stuff.why you ask? because isk will still be used as a medium of exchange. people who want fluid assets will trade their stuff/items for isk, as its much more convenient than stuff. people will still buy stuff they want with isk, but will no longer just be able to go and get isk form the isk tree, but instead will have to go and get stuff that other people find valuable enough to buy from them.isk becomes a medium of exchange, instead of a source/sink problem. if you still want some inflation for economic purposes, then give some to newbie players or something. further, it encourages activities that actually contribute to the economy.basically, imagine sleeper loot/salvage, only all of those ancient coordinate databases would be purchased by players because they are redeemable for skillbooks (instead of selling the databases to npcs for isk.)"
"for the nullsec noobs you could make t2 frigates a little easier to get into (sp wise).also they'll need a way to make isk to buy these ships. you could add a few more low risk belt rat spawns into the mix, (a small handful of cruisers / frigates / battle cruisers) the \"normal\" belt ratters will skip over the belt rat spawns that don't have any battleships in them, and the noob ratters can skip over the tougher belts till they find something their speed. with more spawns it means that belt miners will get jumped more often, but a flight of medium drones from a hulk should have no problem chasing off a low risk belt rat spawn.i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"and this ui is comfortable to use??? loljust ask noobs that are starting to play eve...there is no more uncomfortable ui then eve ui..."
"well if they have nothing to do in art department, then they could change the player created outposts, so that they maybe show what upgrades they have. maybe a modular system like the t3 ships.same could be done for regular npc outposts and it could show what services they offer.seeing that an outpost has an medical, without show info would be a nice feature."
"i would like to see the signatures requirement,also i'd like to see an instant run-off voting system used where you can vote for just one person, or preference vote for everyone.keep the 12 month terms, but have half the seats up for election every 6 months"
"bubble don't reflect market value, before or after it burst."
"there is nothing wrong with the current system of plex. there is no need to do a bind to account thing, that would screw up the gamestyle of thousands of people and inconvenience everyone. the primary concern with plex currently is the rapid increase in price due to manipulation and hoarding by select few players. eve is a sandbox, first and foremost. the rules were set in place to allow exactly this sort of thing, and thus we must allow it, or give ample prewarning on any changes.the high plex prices will begin driving players away from the game as they can no longer subscribe. the best way to drive the prices lower is to increase the overall quality of the game and restore the feeling that eve has a long term potential for another decade. people need to feel eve is worth investing in to be worth spending rl money on plex. crucible is a good start, we're seeing a lot of good changes that are sending eve back in a good direction. the bulk plex sell offers from ccp are another good way to push prices down.for now everything is on the right track to correcting itself. we just need to be patient."
"i remember watching that little dust 514 trailer a while ago. it had all the isk costs for the stuff they were using. and all i could ask myself was \"how much would i pay to screw up someone's pi\"and the answer was definitely \"not 120 mil for that floating command center.\"either the prices need to go down or pi needs to get way more valuable.actually i'd like to see dust interfere with sov warfare / structure bashing. maybe you could launch angry dudes with rifles at any renforceable thing in the game and they could make the reinforce timer longer or shorter depending on who won the dust 514 match.i'd pay a lot of money to be able to slide someone's reinforce timer up or down to get the fight into my timezone.i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"a big part of this is because most structures have stupid amounts of hot points. and you need a load of people if you want to take the thing down in a reasonable amount of time. the new dread mechanics that encourage you to take them out more often might help out with this.yeah i can see a decent hp buffer for the initial attack to give the defenders some time to get a home defense fleet up. but when you have a reinforce timer ticking down you already know when the fight is going to happen.i hear the new pi offices have fewer hit points, and i am interested by the idea of choosing a window of time during the day for it to come out of reinforce.if the new pi offices turn out to be really popular we might try doing something similar to the current reinforcement mechanics.i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"here's the thing with changing the slots (and refining percentages) -- it's already \"hard enough\" for industrial types in nullsec since (for the most part, anyway) there's a serious need to have combat-oriented guys protecting your borders and such. this ends up leaving the industrial guys (usually) being looked down on. yes, i will agree that not everyone does this ... but let's be honest ... as a recruiter you can have one of the following pilots... pilot a -- 20m sp in combat skills, only has the basics (i.e. what new players start with) in industry.pilot b -- 20m sp in industry, can fly cruisers or maybe bcs with t1 gunswho would you rather have in your crew?now, i haven't been in nullsec in a long time so things may have changed ... but i remember i got drafted in because i pulled off some near impossible deliveries to a corp (5 dudes in retrievers, i had a hulk/mack ... the order was for lots of oxytopes, and a few mil units of various minerals). after getting in, i was pretty bad at refining in their station (was a 30 or 35% base station) ... so i worked to squeeze every last bit of usable material out of those rocks that i could.yeah, i wasn't useful for anything beyond cannon fodder ... but i made myself stand out in my corporation because i was able to refine at essentially 100% out there... i wasn't just \"some miner\" who was able to supply some materials ... i was one of \"the guys\" to talk to when stuff needed refined.sure, it makes things \"easier\" all around for indy types if everyone can refine at 100% with less effort ... but there should really be something left in the game to make training skills that high \"worth it\" (and no, the elite certificates aren't really what i'm talking about)."
"1. destructible stations.2. moving technitium or other rare moon minerals after one month to other 0.0 region. (the minerals of the moon runs out, just calculate how much minerals mining a large pos/month)3. change upkeep system. give chance for smaller corps and alliance.make much more expensive for corp or alliance if they want upkeep more systems than one.change every infrastructure upgrades and structure costs when corp or alliance hold more than one.example with advanced logistics network cost per 30 days:just 1.5 billion now if an alliance want to upkeep aln in five system, because every aln cost 300 million in every system.first system: 300 millionsecond system: 300 million + 300 million from first system = 600 millionthird system: 300 million + 600 million from other two system = 900 millionfourth system: 300 million + 900 million from other three system = 1.2 billionfifth system: 300 million + 1.2 billion from other four system = 1.5 billionafter change; 300 million + 2x300 million + 3x300 million + 4x300 million + 5x300 million = 4.5 billionfirst system: 300 millionsecond system: 300 million + 2x300 million = 900 millionthird system: 900million + 3x300 million = 1.8 billionfourth system: 1.8 billion + 4x300 million = 3 billionfifth system: 3 billion + 5x300 million = 4.5 billion"
"@tigerit takes a long time to stage pos (yeah, getting fixed) and conquer a system, etc. i agree that moongoo should probably deplete at some rate, but monthly turnover is far too fast."
"this will have exactly the opposite impact that you want. in order to maintain a few \"useful\" systems, an alliance will now have to conquer much more space just to stick a few towers in and leave it alone. and by leave it alone i mean, drop their entire armada on anyone who wants to settle in.i understand the argument that holding huge areas of space should be more difficult than it is now. but simply making it cost more isk is not a solution, as the only way to get enough isk on an alliance level is to conquer more space. eventually you reach a balance when the space the alliance holds de iure is enough to pay for the space the alliance uses de facto. ideally, this balance should be achieved without having to hold any space simply to make isk. all alliance-owned space should be profitable to operate in."
"this is only just the basis idea which unable to keep for an alliance the valuable places continuously without fight.the monthly turnover time should be 2 or 3 months or there may be something else."
"no argument here, and i think you are wrong.just go and check 0.0 areas now. the big alliances controlled huge terroritories, but when you go there you just see so many empty systems without any pilots.if you cant pay for 30-60 system upkeep cost, because that is too much isk, you need more renters or smaller corps and alliences there.thats better against blob and much better for smaller corps and alliances, because it is possible to populate the empty systems so better, while this is cut smaller parts the big continuous possessed areas."
"actually i responded, and the ticket was \"mistakenly\" flagged wrong and closed... so i had to open a new petition (more wasted time on a petition that has already been open a month.. but read my petition.. all the responses are a copy/paste of the previous response.. do you guys even listen to us (the customer)? ccp does a lot of good things in this game, other than the gm's i really have no other complaints... just once, i would like a petition in my favor. gm panzer, does it really take a month to solve 1 petition?"
"the phrase, \"bitter old vets\" comes to mind... and sadly i don't fall in the 30+ category... ;( im only 27....."
"yeah -- i was going off what my corpies were saying ... bandwidth limits and all... wanna make sure i've got enough to not get the isp pissy at me for crucible =]edit -- so was able to get the installer at a mate's house yesterday ... seems that the ships have one of two modes1. gank!!!!2. wtf am i wasting lowslots with tanking modules?now, what we didn't get a chance to try out was buffer tanks with a logi cruiser helping to soak incoming dps... so that might be a viable setup for the \"plan\" these ships seem to have (i.e. the \"fast\" roaming gangs). you're right that the resists and other things will probably move the numbers i gave one way or the other as for their survivability... but not by very much. from what we were fitting last night (dcu ii and mag field stabs/heatsinks/gyrostabs in the lows, full rack of meta 4 guns with a few rounds of faction ammo) ... the new bc will absolutely trash mining vessels.we tried it against the \"normal\" hulk you'll find in hisec (completely untanked), and they'll diaf in pretty much one volley (assuming you hit). ran the numbers against halada's nullsec fit, and it looks like 5-6 volleys, possibly less if the guns are overheated.now, this fit will absolutely diaf to bcs (probably even cruisers) fit for gank. roughly the same fit on a brutix (7x med guns, dcu ii, mag field stabs) will turn the new bcs into scrapmetal in 8-12 volleys (depending on whether or not you overheat)"
"the general rule is if you can't afford to lose it don't undock it. if you are stupid enough to undock from jita 4-4 in a kestral full of plex or something equally as stupid then you deserve what you get."
"hooray! we can finally start taking out those botters up in empire space.seriously all the minerals in this game are produced nearly risk free in highsec by one of two kinds of players: 1. robots2. unemployed neckbeards who spend 15 hours a day multiboxing 10 accounts in hulks eating belts in empire space.i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"and you are a real moron asuming just the second optionwhat about disabled people that cant do much more then play games. ? or people that just suck at pvp and still like eve ?and for number one i agree bots are wrong..back to topic now.i will guess what will hapen when us \"carebears\" go mining in low sec? yeah right the worst scum in eve live in low sec..the post was not intended as a whine. but more to get ccp to see they created an inbalance in the game.its just to easy to gank someone in highsec. it will most probablu ruin the game for new players that mined like mad and finaly got that hulk/covetor.yippieee i got my hulk and can only just fly it.. then some dork decides its funny to gank that noob.. noob goes rage and quits to play swtor"
"exactly :)the question is ... is it only a pvp game --> should non pvp'rs really be reviled and shunned by even the designers?for now, i guess the answer is known (ganking is the new solution) .... it's probably a pendulum effect (i.e.-please the gankers this time around .... look at the followon effects .... react and re-tweak).will the t3 bc's be expensive? will they require any t3 or t2 components, and will their bpo's be commonly available or will they require lp's, etc.?i'm guessing from the noise so far they will be normal t1 mfg items, but haven't seen the bpo details to tell ..."
"so if eve is a pvp game why are there a **** load of missions to do solo or with friends ?eve is both pvp and pve and player and friends versus enviorment."
"no, eve is not \"only\" pvp (there is ship spinning ). however, the vast majority of gameplay is actually pvp to some degree ... and anything you or i or that guy over there does can and will affect someone else at some point. the non-combat people who think the devs are shunning them (i.e. the carebears) have the necessary tools to know someone's coming, and be able to gtfo. they even have the tools to not be \"quite\" as easy to gank (note, it's still really easy as i mentioned above) -- but making myself harder to gank means that i'm not mining as much... the new battlecruisers are tier three (tech one), not tech three. just like all the other t1 shipe, they need various quantities of isogen, megacyte, mexallon, nocxiun, pyerite, tritanium, and zydrine ... the precise (well, close enough -- they'll likely get ninja tweaked just before the patch) mineral quantities are available on sisi, and some sites do pull the sisi build info already. price-wise, they're going to be \"expensive\" for the first few months since demand >>>>>>>>> supply."
"it's depressing for us more solo players, but yeah, from the looks of it, it seems they are swinging away from solo content atm and trying to encourage ppl to join into larger groups/corps/alliances (even for pve - ala incursions), or at least force them into solo pvp (ganking i guess is very much a good thing in their eyes?) --> i.e. - maybe they think the game is too boring, and there are problems with mudflation (though they've supposedly just added to it with incursions), so they are trying to instigate more conflict and destruction and make it harder to produce base commodities (mining, ice harvesting, etc.) .... maybe they also figure, bots don't run in fleets, so the way to combat botting, is to combat solo play ....personally i don't like it ... but it kinda seems that this is the new age dawning ---> there are lots of ppl who think these things will be an improvement .... some even say the best way to retain new players is to force them to join larger corps, etc., where they can be better supported and won't be as apt to leave the game.the goonswarm wing of the csm, also seems to have a complete and utter disdain for any solo play other than ganking, and that pretty much the only ppl who run missions or mine are botters (or at least that's their political cover story). who knows, they may have their own bot fleets running 24x7 in their home systems -- that would be totally classic goon shenanigans wouldn't it? anyway, tough to be them ...once you've beaten every other aspect of the game though, what's left other than to beat ccp itself? :)"
"you can solo pvp outside of ganking ... it's just \"hard\" (mostly because the other guy probably has friends).don't get me wrong ... there are some days where i actually enjoy it being quiet in corpchat... but overall, solo play is probably the one truly \"wrong\" way to go about playing eve. i'm looking at the new changes, and rather than thinking \"oh great, now i can't mine because of tornado\" ... i'm working with my corpies to come up with ways to deal with it. i've engaged some of the local corps to see if we're aligned in our views ... not to bring them into our fold or anything ... but to simply not be surrounded by neutrals. yeah, i'll own that i'm generally disdainful of the small corporations that are always on at the same time ... but it's because these small corps are so apt to get in the mindset that they aren't affecting anyone and generally want to see the game go to hell (i.e. \"i want a pve only flag!\" or similar). if being in your 5-10 man corp works for you ... then it works for you.... but don't expect any special treatment because you want to be a \"little guy\"."
"hey guys, isn't it already easy to gank a hulk in hisec in a hurricane? ... if so, no reason to use these the t3 bc's for that actually (assuming they will be more expensive .... but maybe that's not a good assumption?)"
"good god, who ganks in a cane? brutix is cheaper and better. (yay, gallante pvp) and tomorrow, catalyst will have 900 dps overheated (no, you won't need those guns later). i know what i'm using for the next hulkagaddon."
"it does.what part of player versus player do you not understand?"
"there is pve to fuel the pvp. note how a lot of pve can actually be interpreted as pvp (ninja salvaging, exploration racing, incursion fleets, etc).its just a different form of player versus player.sorry but, eve is and always has been a pvp centered game. its why there is no instancing."
"i believe that malcanis had a really elegant bounty system fix, if you can find it. it was well thought out.i believe that the mac build though cider is a broken system a lot of the time. i feel like saying 'fix it or don't offer it' is a really stupid attitude, but at some point if you could actually fix it (stopping the crash-to-desktop for no repeatable reason) that would be great, and if you can't fix it, its probable that the money spent on transgaming could probably be better spend on something real.the isk/mineral source/sink problem is borked, (mostly by botting, also by bounties.) (the wh system is better....(as in items instead of isk))caps and supercaps should be much more mineral-intensive. they are not supposed to be used how they are used right now (although we'll just have to see how hard the nerf-hammer comes down.)there is much angst about station games. (undocks, docking radius etc.)on that note, aggression mechanics could be....better. (like rr.)"
"what? no i... wha.. what?that aside there are some balance changes i'd like to see: tweaks to the drake - its great range/dps/speed/ehp numbers far exceed the other tier 2 bc's. it doesn't need to be meganerfed, just toned down but the ship is imbalanced as it sits now. just look at the last qen and how many of them are flown. the numbers speak for themselves. low sec improvements - there is little incentive to live in low sec atm. most low sec pockets are devoid of any meaningful traffic. there are many well thought out threads about low sec improvements. as things stand in eve now, low sec is never even mentioned in csm/dev discussions. most of whats said is \"0.0 this, high sec that,\" low sec isn't even a part of the conversation and its saddening. ewar rebalancing - ewar is unbalanced. most of this imbalance revolves around ecm. its strength compared to other racial ewars is clearly out of line. target painters and sensor damps are especially in a bad spot. one of the best ways to 'nerf' (but not really) ecm is to give a secondary bonus to eccm modules. all other ewar counters (sensor booster, cap boosters, prop mods, ect.) can be used even when not targeted by the ewar that they counter. sebo's make you lock faster/longer, cap boosters give you cap, ect. eccm, however, is only useful when ecm is being used against you. if eccm was made to passively lower sig radius [just throwing out an example], people would be more inclined to fit them since eccm wouldn't be a hit-or-miss use of a slot, thus making ecm less of a problem. this is only one suggested solution ofc, but there is a big disparity in racial ewars regardless of whether or not buffing eccm is the solution. ccp could just as easily hit ecm with the nerfbat so its as unappealing as other ewar"
"give industrialists a way to build t1 meta level 1-4 items."
"ban supercapitals from low sec."
"yep risk vs reward is the one big problem eve has now.the highsec incursions that give out silly isk per hour rewards for next to no risk are killing lowsec / nullsec where you can get shot at by any random roam that flies by and you have to defend your space every once in a while if you live in a sov holding alliance.(by the way i have only ever lived in \"hot\" regions of nullsec, i imagine living in renter space surrounded by blues for 20 jumps in any direction it's probably safer than highsec.)actually oddly enough lowsec is probably the most dangerous place to hang out in. i'd move all the incursions from highsec out into lowsec.and if you are worried about isk inflation i'd cut the isk rewards from incursions and just hand out a bit more lp. you'd still give people something for running them, but instead of isk flowing into eve from incursions, it would flow out from the concord lp store.i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"whats with anti bot fight???that was only pr thing???and when will they change that 3-strike anti bot mechanic that don't work to 1-strike and out..."
"let a player flag some number of items as 'critical' ... if there is any attempt to transfer that item to another character, it triggers a security question. account hackers would not be able to loot a character as easily"
"totaly agree with that...."
"if i were to make a new interface id have different views/types of interfaces that are switchable based on whatever im currently doing but only very broadly such as flying in space (scenic), a combat focus mode, mining/ industry etc. all of them with they own view angles and tailored views of your ship based on your activity (broadly) all of this is to highlight the way the game looks but still have only what is necessary on the screen."
"i support this .. idea? product? mmmm boobiesi also support the no pants proposal. i love cavorting around my quarters in just my panties this is my signature. there are many others like it, but this one is mine. without me, my signature is useless. without my signature, i am useless"
"i think for the teen rating that ccp wants to keep they won't be allowed to show panties. i am not sure on that though. i guess that wouldn't make sense since they show all that in character creation. i am ambivalent to that since i am not really interested in walking around half naked. i would not be opposed to it either though."
"it sounds like ccp agrees and is planning on fixing this.make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"fixing fw is more than just fixing a single style of game mechanic for a single eve community (faction warfare pilots). fixing fw will revitalize lowsec. fixing fw obviously has benefits for participants of faction warfare. pirates who live in lowsec have more targets available to them. it is a casual pvp environment for highsec carebears. it is a casual pvp environment for nullsec bittervets.fw is a small percentage of the player base due to chronic neglect, but a much larger percentage of the player base are pilots not in fw who want fw to be fixed so they can a) join fw or b) benefit from a more populated and active lowsec."
"this and more ...i'm a new player and really want to get into fw when i graduate from e-uni. i want meaningful \"i was there\" fw moments that have consequences to the evolving story of new eden. i urge all the csm members and ccp to re-read hans's excellent fw thread here."
"good stuff here in this thread, especially for my morning coffee. some things that i wanted to comment on this is a type of small gang pvp that is vastly different precisely because it is in wh space. you need scanners, the ship classes are much different (t3's, recons and sb's are very popular compared to lowsec/fw). although it is a type of small scale pvp, it is vastly different with its own costs. many enjoy lowsec style pvp, and fw is one of the few mechanics that encourages small gang fights there. it is in that sense it is unique and why a lot of ppl in fw use the phrase \"fw promotes small gang/solo pvp\"this perception is precisely why we need fw representation in the csm. although the mechanics in this game do encourage blobbing, many find it extremely boring. fw has done an amazing thing with it though, most players limit to small fights and constantly attempt to avoid blobbing. the earlier comment about the existance of rivalries in fw is true to the core, and because we fight each other all the time there is a ton of \"if you blob we aren't even going to bring ships to fight\". most of the corps that do blob end up going to null, getting bored and coming back to fw with not enough players to blob with -> small gang fights again.what we are asking for is to change the mechanics so that we are not getting punished by the game for our community's style of playthe above is really just me soapboxing, what really matters here:"
"i am not referring to any specific changes. my point is that if you wave a magic wand and make fw perfect in every respect, so that lots of people want to do it, it'll just blob up. and that this can only be fixed by game mechanics changes that make blobs over a certain size non-optimal."
"given two topics this is quite a confusing thread to read, i understand that it is a single session but perhaps two threads would have made identifying points for discussion easier.some of these things have been said already in various threads but these things would get my support. oh and i am a militia pilot and support hans thread. rebalance or remove npc e-war from plexes faction warfare missions to count towards occupancy faction warfare missions to not be farmable in a stealth bomber and interceptor move pirate faction ships into the higher tier plexes, if it were up to me i would spilt out the special ability they get and give them it back via a assault ship or hac skill bonus. makes them a little more skill intensive for their power level as well. faction npc<U+FFFD>s should switch aggro/distribute when other pilots or neutrals enter missions and plexes. not to their own militia pilots obviously. neutral pilots should be engaged by the faction npc<U+FFFD>s in missions/plex as if they are the enemy regardless of standings; they can get a warning message when warping to the plex if you like. move plex spawning away from downtime. greater lp/isk rewards for plexing and pvp kills. leave high sec navies in place in order to even out engagements within plexes, a further spawn of your own allied factions ships when a war target enters the plex or is already present, not to engage the other player but for both sides npc<U+FFFD>s to lock each other up and ignore the players for a time allowing pvp to take place. faction war intel mini map - 2d region based intel map, highlight activity, shows number of plexes taken lost/missions completed and militia ships destroyed in the last hour and importantly shows current plexes in progress, perhaps with some delayed intel say 5 minutes so it does not take the place of proper scouting and maybe only for the region you are in. faction warfare live events - details up to ccp thank you for your support"
"i would have to be against this. there are many reasons why this is a bad idea.1. it would remove any need to have logistics at all and people would be able to literally live in wh space without ever having to leave.2. the nullbears would go into instand cry mode and it would never end. they already want ice out of hs and ls...what makes you think they want to allow it in wh?3. wh is already extremely profitable...it does not need to be buffed for even more profit in this way.4. etc...there are a lot of good ideas in this thread though. some of them a lot bigger than a papercut however..."
"actually fw plexing is a mechanic that does work well to prevent blobs. the way it works is it should require pilots to be at many places at the same time in many different types of ships. (that is the blob should be split up) the problem is plexing is broken so fw players often ignore it and just fleet up and roam like everyone else in eve.let me explain a bit more:there are about 4 regions in the min amarr fw front and the same in the gallente caldari front. each of these regions has about 50 systems in play each. that is a total of 400 systems that plex can spawn in. now plex can be closed in anywhere from 10 minutes to 25 minutes and they only let in size restricted ships (minor plexes dessie and down - medium cruiser and down and closed major bc and down and then open major lets all ships in.) so now lets say fw plexing is fixed. you are fighting for amar and like everyone else in eve you form a blob. however there are 30 different systems throughout your region with plexes being opened and captured. let<U+FFFD>s say half are by your militia half are by minmatar. so that is 15 different plexes throughout 200 different systems that you need to get to in the next 10-25 minutes! it won't work. i didn't even mention the fact that of those 15 plexes probably 30% will only let dessie and down in and another 30% will only let cruiser and down in. the blob will need to split up if they want to plex efficiently. and the beauty is there does not need to be any artificial limits on the size of the fleets.however ccp will have to balance and iterate on this. if there are too many plexes spawning then both sides will run them and never have to fight over them. if there are too few plexes spawning then people can form blobs and win them. this is what ccp has to iterate on to carfully balance things.ccp has many untapped resources in helping them balance this. for example lets say caldari far outnumber gallente. gallente can all get in small ships and run minor plexes throughout the regions. if caldari can<U+FFFD>t organize as fast they will lose plexes. but also they can do things like if caldari gains occupancy of 70% of gallente systems they can let gallente cruisers in minors and bcs in mediums etc. if caldare gets 90% of systems then maybe gallente could put bses in all the plexes. they can also add pirate factions as needed. maybe the guristas will come into play and do the old enemy of my enemy alliance with gallente. that is they would both be able to cap caldari plexes. so there are allot of balancing options ccp would have but it would take iterations. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"why is plexing broken? for me it is because the rats are doing damage to my ships so if an enemy comes in i typically have to warp off. or vice versa. the other problem is we don<U+FFFD>t even know when people are plexing. supposedly the other miltia is attacking our military compounds but no one in our militia knows where or what sort of force they are bringing! that is there is no notification system when plexes are attacked.these 2 things lead people to fit pve ships and engage in hide and seek plexing. that is how its done most efficiently and that is why people want nothing to do with it. that is also why lots of people (i<U+FFFD>m not saying everyone) have asked that ccp 1)remove the rats and 2)let the militias know when plexes are being taken.other reasons are there is not much of an immediate benefit. yes there are tags but because ccp keeps boosting the pirate faction loot drops in null sec, the tags have a value cap. the 4 major faction lp stores have very limited items that can compete with the deadspace and pirate faction versions of the same items. well whether you agree with that or not the fact is plexing does not pay as well as most other forms of isk generation. the other issue is no long term benefit or effect. i don<U+FFFD>t think ccp should go overboard on this (because everyone will then join the winning side) but some indication of who has sov would be nice. there are a few ideas that have been kicked around.make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"this proposal is on csm's list for years already. well, not this particular variant, but ideas to make the bounty system viable. it even has already been voted on some years ago. all in all, it seems to be regarded as not that important, not that beneficial, not that high a priority as to put some real effort in it or to invest development time and ressources. this will only change if we can mobilize significantly more people advocating for it."
"a single solution to high sec incursions, would be to have the security of the system degrade over time, until the sansha incursion is finished. if players don't clear it quickly, concord gets overwhelmed and the system becomes lowsec, left long enough the sansha defeat concord and take over, and thus the system becomes npc nullsec until cleared.i still think players killing sanaha and being rewarded for it by concord with sansha ships is completely ass-backwards bang your head on the wall stupid. but with the above change players themselves will sort everything else that is wrong with incursions in highsec."
"when i originally read the preview of incursions before they came out i seriously thought they would degrade a system's sec status. this is a good idea and should really be in the game. i'd like to see incursions drop the sec status right off the bat but that might be asking a bit much.but the one serious fix to incursions would be to make the highsec ones fewer and far between as well as pay out a bit less. lowsec should get a boost to the frequency of incursions as well as the payout to encourage people to go out there a bit more.nullsec is dying because you can make more isk per hour safely running incursions in highsec than you can running sanctums in nullsec. why would anyone take on the immense risk of nullsec when they can get more isk ratting safe and sound in empire space.i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"waaaaa mummy people in hsec are making isk and i dont like it waaaaa waaaaa waaaaaaaaaa impersonation of the op by me 28/11/11"
"yeah absolutely, ccp should be embarrassed by incursions as it is implemented now. it runs counter sandbox style mmos, risk/reward balance, roleplaying and lore. it's everything eve ought not to be. when i first saw what they were doing i was very much taken aback, and felt very bad for those roleplaying sansha loyalists, because no one got more shat on by this than them.while i would be in favor on an immediate security drop to low sec status or lower, i think a reasonable compromise would be to offer a small window in which those that mobilize quickly (and don't delay completion to farm) can feasibly do so before the security drops low enough to remove concord protection. as you suggest in terms of effort on ccps part, drastically reducing the frequency or removing incursions entirely from highsec would be easiest."
"i am up for mt for vanity items. items that make me look the way i want to tobut convenience items or services must be able to be reproduce able by players but also cost the person experiencing the convenience more than if they did a player contract for it.ie convenience mainly used for those people who have the $$ to take a short cut but pay more than 50% to triple that what a player could pay to reproduce.t1 (meta 0) loot - to be purchased in null sec or anywhere because it was not stocked by a player in the system. assuming a set ratio of arrum to isk the price of the good should be more than what players would be selling them for (counted by mineral content) the lower sec the greater the price hikethe nex store also purchase one off the market nearest market, ensuring a large margin t1 ships could be treated the same way. (similar to npc seeding a station)(possible pay to win but going in game with real people produces a better effect.hire npc alts to guard you in high sec during wardecs, even though a merc corp will do the job far much better at less of a price.)if bob the isolationist from high sec want eve the single play he should. but it should cost him. assume arum to isk is a set conversion rateif bob want to buy a raven from nex store he should. the nex store will buy one off the local market. for him at a 50% mark up and put it in his hanger.if bob wants to get all his stuff move from point a to point b - the nex store will move that stuff for him at 50% more than the cost provided by the local market. the nex store will place a contract with appropriate collateral and reward- similar to market.bob loves nex be cause it saves him the effort but he pays for it though the nose. the nex store becomes a conduit that spoon feeds bob, and then hires eve players wisely to do the task so the economy is strengthened by nex store not harmed by it...... though working for essentially \"hal\" may creap people out...mt for silly stuff likesilly stuff:repairing missiles - much like how snowballs work. having to work though resistances to actually rep something, on a similar ship fit the repairing missile boat vs a boat fit with reps the missile boat reps at 50%so for vanity any thing goesfor convenience the nex store must purchase an object or service similarly but wisely from the eve community. so the nex store become the npc buying and moving product, for the lazy player.this should allow ccp to make money from lazy but that money essentially turns into isk to be earned by the logistics players of eve.so sliding the slope of p2win <U+FFFD> as long as the nex store prechases the items off the market to sell to the pswin guy, or the cost of a service is done by nex, the nex must recreate that service as an npc contract for players to full fillso the nex become like this room mate that you pay to play the boring parts of the game for you. this room mate is essentially a regular player in eve but a 50%+ markup is paid so you don't have to interact with anyone.when a player sees a nex store courier contract up he know some one just paid2win and the player accepting the contract is the one getting paid.in the end the nex store becomes a tax for the lazy.convenience option pay to fuel a tower for you.....npc contract for local area go up courier. if goon swarm keeps preventing the use or completion of these contracts then the price for fueling a tower in that region keeps going up till it become just to impractical to even think of paying nex to do the shipping for you.also goods in the closest market are removed from the market.so fueling a tower in low sec or high sec may be easy through the nex but null sec may be an issue.gold ammo <U+FFFD> only if a player makes it and puts it on the market to be purchased. if the nex can't buy it , it can't sell it.the destruction of courier contracts will increase the price of items in the nex store and will increase the reward on the nex purchase contracts."
"this is happens when you drink the microtransaction coolaid"
"jade's right. don't drink the coolaid"
"i want to give ccp what they want but i don't want to loose what i wantit is not a case of if i win some one else has to looselike in faction warfare in high sec the local friendly npc faction will help protect you.personally i would love the opportunity to pay lp points to have the faction npc so set up camp around me during a personal wardec and guard me. probably this option would have to be in place before the nex store could sell this option.and the nex store would be purchasing lp points to resell to lazy players."
"get out"
"see i'm not convinced that the ccp we know and love actually wanted microtransaction money-grubbing-sandbox destroying nexcarna rubbish to spoil their dream.i think the whole monetization/mt/vanity/convenience trash came from a few \"industry experts\" who got hired who had very little understanding of what makes eve a uniquely successful indie-style product and simply wanted to get paid to advise hilmar to follow the crowd and make like a wow sparkle pony. i hope those people all got fired. is that you ccp zinfandel?get out!*(*in game)"
"get out!the sound of a closed mind slaming shut.take the time to brain storm a solution, that will make ccp additional revenue, with out causing those who don't want to pay more the game not to have to pay more.what vanity, or convenience. items would not ruin your game if they got introduced.is there a \"spin\" or way you could make some p2win items palatable? --->like the nex store buying its stuff its sells off the local markets? if the nex store did this would it also remove the rmt of those selling ships for real money like a dominix can be sold from rmt side for $4.95 i would love to see the nex store put these guys out of business especially after plex it is only worth 1.60nex buys a dominix off jita for 48 mill and then sell it for 85 mill worth of arrum/isk on the nex= $2.95this will put the rmt companies out of business. and the nex store earn 1.35$ for ccp and a player made his 48 mill isk for building and selling a dominix on the local market. though another player may earn some isk doing a nex courier contract from point a to b to represent the moving of the ship from jita to the point of purchase of the object.is there other pay to win option that if done a certain way to involve the eve player base make pay to win paltable.like if i have a wardec. can i go to a nex store and say i need protection. and the nex store puts out a standard contract for mercs of a certain ranking to accept to complete a task for a newb?can players build wing man drones. npc ships that have a sleeper ai and accept limited commands i can purchase off the market to do my bidding. introducing essentially crews. once they become available to the general player back the nex store can start purchasing these goods and start selling them on the nex store. player built henchment.the nex store turns into this \"not so compeditive\" market bot in eve that does rmt though plexes. -"
"i've got it. how about we invent this thing called plex. what it will do is allow poor players to trade isk for game time (isk which they have loads of because they mine while unemployed or studying for exams) and rl rich players will have the option of buying isk by trading the game time to the rl poor players! ccp will get more subscribers total and some of those will pay extra money for in-game advantage by trading in plex for isk.its genius right?think we should go with that strategy?(removed all your stuff because we already have plex that achieves this goal without wrecking the game.) you have stern competition from nex quislings but i think thats probably the worst idea i've ever heard regarding eve mt."
"no, really.get out."
"brilliant idea, would totally fix the economy, and halt inflation in it's tracks, never gonna happen though.also you'd have to account for the one unavoidable isk sink: people unsubscribing. i know we don't like to talk about this but after the incarna debacle a lot of ultra wealthy people in eve just stopped playing, you can see the effects of this in the t2 market.when someone quits playing all the isk in their account just sits there never re entering the system. also all their market sell orders stay up so the dead account accumulates more isk without spending it.i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"starting amount of sp needs to be increased. i recently created a new toon just to take a look at what it's like now for new players and it's far harsher than it was for me 4 years ago. when i created this toon, i started with around 800k sp including frig 3 or 4, enough gunnery that all that stood between me and t2 small ac's was the small ac spec book and enough support stuff so i could fit all t1 tanking mods (frig class) as well as speed mods and other such things.now you can't fit anything without spending hours on training. sure the skills are all 10 minutes each (no implants) and you are effectively starting with all lvl5 learning skills, but there are dozens of those skills you need. it adds up fast and you can't do anything but the most basic of tutorial missions without them. the result is after creating a new toon you have to wait nearly a day before you can undock even a noob ship with a t1 meta 0 shield booster on it. that just isn't a good setup for drawing new players in.so i think it would be a good idea to give all new characters those basic skills, nothing fancy, just the absolute minimum so they can immediately get into the game. thus they should have all necessary skills to use any and all race appropriate t1 mods excluding mwd's. these skills should be the absolute minimum however. caldari as a primarily missile race should start with missile skills instead of turret as well. i think this works out to about 50k sp starting instead of 5k sp. obviously handing out skillbooks as tutorial mission rewards would need to be adjusted as this setup would eliminate their need. as a final thought, one exception should be made for the sole purpose of demonstrating what skillbooks are. the propulsion jamming skill would be perfect for that. i think that one was left out when i was a noob too."
"i think the art department could really help with the new player experience. especially with the ui, it does look a little windows 3.1if the ui was a little more intuitive and approachable it might stop people from giving up when they start the game.also you could make more variety in the things people will see most in the game, namely the level 4 mission, haven, and sanctum set pieces.for example right now there are only two types of havens in the game. the rock haven and the gas cloud haven. for variety's sake i'd make as many types of haven's and sanctums as i could.i have never really done that much mission running but i assume they could use some variety as well.i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"csm needs more marketing avenues with the actual game of eve.like:splash screen on load upthe in cq captian quartersthe in space tv in space near jump gatesif it is in game - the csm will have to work in \"role playing \" some of the topics to avoid emerssion breakinga link to the in game browser's wiki of the csm would be handior a web page pointing to a particular pollone of the larges concerns i have is the developing of official polls the need to be neutral. several polls written by the csm during the summer of incarnage were written with incredibly bias. if a poll is written it should be done by that csm mediator guy. so that the polls will depict an unbias question and provide a valid answer.the private polls that when out during the last summer (the market research) the csm should view the results of these, so they can temper of what they see from the forums that can easily suffer from group think vs what people are thinking on an individual by individual basis. they then can leverage their vocal minority input to position that also addresses the information collected from the surveys."
"disband :d"
"the main thing wrong with plex is that a lot of people have come to believe that they're entitled to play for free, and at an isk cost of their choosing. and this at a time of increasing rl economic difficulties reducing the number of people willing to spend rl money and increasing those who want to cut their rl costs.the \"time price\" of playing for free is still extremely low if you're unemployed/student - 5 hours a month (that's just 75 minutes a week) will do it. i've been unemployed. 75 minutes is nothing when you have 16 or 18 hours a day to kill, and some free entertainment to secure.over the next 2-3 years, that \"time price\" is only likely to increase."
"when plex go up, people are more likely to buy them from ccp and put them on the market. it's good for ccp to have those spikes in price. what's more, anyone who would quit over plex prices probably isn't a serious player who will be around for long anyway. if you can't deal with a 100 million isk per month difference in your wallet, you shouldn't be plexing yet."
"it is fact that pi prices will change dramatically with crucible. and since the importance of pi is increasing so does dust's.i just hope that ccp start giving more information about dust development so that when it reaches eve, it would mix with it instead of colliding. new pos system new sov system"
"i am getting a ps3. it should be funnow when i propose a twitch based play in eve people can now tell me to go play dust.i hope there is special resource collection in dust to bring back into eve for vanity goodsi hope there will be a new class of ship, similar to a blockade jumper that can allow me to plan mercs on a planet to fight for me deep in enemy territory."
"this!!! oh, sweet mother of chribba, this is a fantastic idea. lets not see dust limited to planetside engagements - merc detachments to fight over and seize space structures would be awesome. current structure shoots certainly take long enough that a deathmatch could occur inside in real time and scale just fine with eve space battles.this could potentially be used in everything from pos towers, to pi gantries, to sov blockade units, to even structures in faction warfare plexes. about the only limitation might be ship-to-ship seizures, but even than - what if there were a marine ship capable of attaching like a barnacle to a supercap and injecting mercs inside to storm the bridge? the whole time the nyx pilot might be engaged in a race against time before the dust players inside his ship reach the pod chamber and kill the clone. he would, of course, have his own paid bodyguards on board to defend....."
"if you want that it means something...give dust to have influence in moon goo... that would become real fight... if you cant get moon goo... you can send dusters to cut supplies from you opponents too... vote issler dainze for csm7!"
"i think at last dust514 should influence the sovereignty of a system as much as eve does. now if you plan to take down a system you have to place sbu, take down the infrastructure hub, and only then take down the sovereignty blockade unit. for now, the only thing that keeps this from happening are the ships defending the systems and the poss that \"spawn\" them... but with dust514 there is the possibility of planet->space weapons, and as long as you have the sovereignty of the planet you will also be able to use the planetary defense system to shot invaders that are in a certainly distance from the planets, (probably each race will have a set of planetary weapons with different ranges, strengths, and rate of fire and maybe with modular configuration to make them more versatile...) i think it will seams like picking up targets from a directional scan around the planet and commanding it to shot them... like when you do a pos defense from inside.so, if you plan to take a system you will have to deploy soldiers at the planets to take down this structures or the planets defenses, (like destroying the force field generator), so then you will be able to shot them from orbit with special weapons (each faction would have a battleship and a capital size orbital weaponry, with orbital range to shot the plannet surface, that are useless at space and have certainly characteristics that allow shot trough the atmosphere : like a rail gun with charges that contain a shield generator inside... a special artillery with reinforced ceramic shells... a beam lazer with low radio lens (e.l.f. lens)... or space-plannet missiles ) also planetary attack fleets would have to be well organized, because they would need to defend themselves both from planetary counter-attack and conventional ship attacks... like a pos bashing op... so bring some logistics.... new pos system new sov system"
"hey guys if we make this really expensive thing easy for everyone to get it'll stay expensive right?"
"i say we start with ccp gives us information to discuss./thread"
"no, you'd just drop sov, but keep your moons and still hotdrop the crap out of anyone who tries to get in. this is already happening to some degree; for example check out the kalevala expanse or adjacent regions. it used to be much more wide-spread about a year ago. imho this is even worse than claiming sov but not really using the systems."
"i can't comment on some of the larger, alliance affecting issues like moon goo and sov systems. however, from my perspective as a player that was quite active in 0.0 pvp 3 years ago only return this month, much of the complaints that i hear on these forums about the lack of good small-scale pvp and the poor health of 0.0 as a whole can be directly attributed to the redistribution of in-game resources that has occurred during the past few years.these changes have included the introduction of level 4 missions to empire, incursions, the increase in \"gun mining\" and more. all of these changes have a) created more opportunities for people to accumulate wealth without leaving empire b) lowered mineral prices to the point where mining anything but ice in 0.0 is not only unnecessary, but outright foolish.now i don't think that giving those who don't want to leave empire a better game-play experience is a bad thing, and i certainly don't think that removing any of the current options available to empire dwellers is the way to go. however, to ensure the health of 0.0, people have to be be given a real incentive to take on the risks associated with null space. currently, those incentives simply are not in place - most players can earn just as much isk in empire than anywhere else.how does this relate to the decrease in small-gang warfare? simply that without an incentive to mine, mission, haul, and rat in 0.0 proportionate to the risk, players won't participate in these activities - and those players were typically the targets for the small gangs of old. what's the point of taking a small gang to enemy space if there aren't missioners to probe down, or mining operations to disrupt. what's the point of forming a defense gang to defend your space if you don't have anything to defend that a small gang can take down? to add a personal anecdote, newbies in goonfleet in years past could make a decent amount of money mining crokite in our old home in syndicate. the number of miners in the system meant that the space was a frequent target of small gangs trying to disrupt the miners and ratters. this in turn lead to defense gangs being formed, to protect the miners and ratters. the result? lots of small-gang combat and emergent game-play.contrast this situation to today. most systems can only support one ratter at a time, who will instantly safe and cloak when anyone else comes in the system. mining is simply not profitable in 0.0, meaning there aren't the frequent mining ops and solo miners like there used to be. due to level 4 missions being available in empire, there aren't a high concentration of players traveling near the old 0.0 mission hubs. there simply aren't the targets that there used to be for small gangs.so, how to fix these issues and 1) make 0.0 more attractive to players and corporations and 2) create more emergent small-gang conflict? here are some ideas:1) create different mineral classes for 0.0 space with significantly improved yield. the goal here is not to replace gun-mining, but to make standard 0.0 mining equally if not more profitable. also increase pi yields from 0.0 (previously unexploited planets should have more resources).2) significantly increase the value, difficulty level and re-spawn rate of of 0.0 rats. currently, most systems can only support one or two ratters at a time - not exactly a target rich environment. ideally systems could support 4 or more ratters at a time, at an income rate on par with other earning options.3) create reasons for miners and ratters to defend the space instead of cloaking or docking up, while simultaneously providing more targets for small-gang pvp . this could be done by creating a new class of anchorable objects. these objects could only be anchored within 100k of a belt, and would come in two types: i) pirate beacon - increases the number and value of rats and faction spawns in the system. only one could be anchored per belt, with diminishing returns for beacons in additional belts in the system. ii) rat inhibitor - once anchored, causes any current rats in the belt to de-spawn, and prevents additional rats from spawning in that belt. both of these anchorable objects would have hp comparable to 2x that of a large anchorable bubble, would have defenses equal to low-sec gate guns, and could be set up with basic anchoring skills. this personal infrastructure investment would give miners and ratters a reason to defend their space, make ratting in 0.0 more profitable, make solo-mining viable without relying on a partner to clear out the rats, and give small gangs a target when roaming through 0.0 space. though the implementation of these changes, 0.0 would once again be the land of opportunity for players looking to strike it rich, helping balance the risk vs reward equation. more players would be populate 0.0, and would invest isk in 0.0 infrastructure that is vulnerable to small gangs, creating the kind of emergent game-play that is healthy for eve. creating opportunity for players, stake for players and targets for players in 0.0 would go a long way into making 0.0 space healthier and more dynamic."
"from a miners point of view i need to be able to mine large quantaties of veldspar and other low quality ores with the same way as we are mining high end - with in the safety of hidden belts. as it stands we mine for arknor to sell to jita to buy veldspar minerals. removing us from the \"null sec being self reliant\" themeplease allow us to upgrade our systems to to focus on empire ores. for example if that spoduman rock in the low end belt was veldspar it would be a large step in the right direction. would it possible to make tech ii prospecting arrays that would allow us to find hidden belts full of empire ore and less abc's.another idea would be the capital mining drone ships that would used fighter sized drones to mine empire type ores in null secie minimtar dozer would be able to mine only veldspar as if it was a procurer or mine other ores at like a normal mining droneie caldari dozer would be scorditegellentie be pyroxammar be plag.in null it is highly dangerous to pull end low end ores, as belts are on the over view and super easy to direction scan a ship and warp to it. please make mining in null sec focus on production and away from mining for isk.please keep in mind us miners will have awsome scanning skills if it means we are harder to find. so if it is harder for us to find a belt then it will be harder for pvpers to find us.would change the game if it was easier to find the higher quality belts than the lower quality ones. higher the reward, higher the risk.ice belts are unique and should stay the same as they are in null sec.... especially how valuable they are now."
"so we make sovereignty of a certain level a requirement for anchoring moon harvesters. low-sec moons can be moved or some draconian imperial decree can be added to help limit it, like major increase in stront consumption making defense of far away ls moons difficult (governments do like like safety redundancy in the workplace after all).personally want the moon system to be abolished completely and products added to pi as reactions, but doubt that will happen any time soon."
"i think a sorta theme of resources vs efficiency has to be played in null sec working its way to high sec, null sec theme greater the risk greater the reward. vs lesser the risk, less the lossnull sec should: plenty of ore, to be mined, and can be easily mined in large quantities. high sec should where efficiency is easy to come by.the index of the system should effect the refining, manufacturing, and research efficiency of stations, as they used the local resources around them to keep them going (no fuel costs) and the lower the index the harder it is to find the right people to maintain, and employ to do the refining, building, research to cater to the whims of the pod pilot.placing upgrades that make the place safer should possibly effect the security level of that area and lessen the resources coming from it. but on the other hand increasing efficiency of all the aspects of the station.in fact lots of upgrades will not only will increase the security of not only the host solar system but the entire constellation. soon to the point of becoming high sec with out concord. safer index upgrades would be strategic upgrades like jump bridgesgreater the risk greater the reward. vs lesser the risk, less the lossplacing upgrades that make the place more dangerous should drop the indexdangerous index upgrades be military and industrial upgrades especially quantum flux generators.this should see more smaller fluid skirmishes over closer to null sec systems as there is fewer to make safe money.so instead of the one way though process of putting a station in every system. players will start conserving what areas they are going to develop as this drops their resource collection and is making per hour. role play seed.i know bob a caldari engineer has spent the last 6 years in null sec for work experience. he is now tired of the risk, low pay, and poor statues living in a null sec stations working for pod pilot dic. he is taking the next shuttle out to apply for a job in caldari prime as he can now get a position of value because of his real life work experience. on another note <U+FFFD> allow players to upgrade an out post to a conquerable station and allow out posts to be deconstructed <U+FFFD> the owners belongings taken by inter bus to the nearest low sec system.not sure what programming would be required, but this require alliances to choose safety over profit.in eve the only thing that should always mean more or bigger is better is the skill points of your character. out side of that eve should be a give an take of you exchange an easy control empire or a profitable empire."
"moon mining should stay the same... maybe make more high end moons possibly as the market increases so should the supply.out side of making some more moons they should stay the same as these are like the small nuggets that people fit over, the item that people will politically let a moon fall of an ally so they can come to the rescue and take over the moon for their own purposes.though i think some random moon have a temp store of high tech would be interesting. something that would change every month. make it worth while to once in a while to scan down a moon as it may have 1 months supply of value that you can collect before anyone realizes it. a reason to prob moons versus looking up on the 3 rd party sites."
"there should be fragile upgrades that can easily be destroyed by a gang of 10 pilots or 1 dreadnaught. --structure upgrades---->fuel conservation pylonbenefit <U+FFFD> reduce consumption of pos's and jump bridge in systemincapacitated:- if incapacitated this bonus effect is lost.----->modular shield booster arraybenefit <U+FFFD> increases all pos modules in system to have a 24% shield resists across the board.incapacitated <U+FFFD> bonus effect will drop 1% per hour and after 24 hours, the module can be repair, but will take 24 hours to online at that time. once online the defence will increase at 1 % per hour will shield resists are back up to 24%military upgradebenefit extra change for rare loot to drop on end bosses in enomsincapacitated:- if incapacitated this bonus effect is lost.industrial upgrade---->belt cloak benefit <U+FFFD> hides belts from over view, requiring the belts to be scanned down. to be found only via prob scannerincapacitated:- if incapacitated this bonus effect is lost.----->code breaker code silo <U+FFFD> benefit --->increase chance of tech 2 bp to be found incapacitated:- if incapacitated this bonus effect is lost."
"no need for more renters that the case, you can sipmply not put up sov there but control it by your fleets that space by controling key points, you can hold all ******* region just by byuilding up jb network and by holding entrance points. noting els is not needet to be controled. problem for small entatis wil be the sames befor wil brin nochange at all."
"easy fixing.no sov= no jb,no station.no sov= less isk from npc bountyno sov=reduced moon miningsome big alliances hold +100 systems, but at least 50 percent of those solar systems is uninhabited, that's unacceptable.it what makes it unviable the small corps and alliances there, because they cant controlling systems there. but big alliances can do this easily, because their upkeep costs is too low.need to cut these 6k alliance member numbers to smaller parts and populate the inhabitant spaces what controlled by big alliances, but nobody live there."
"those systems are empty because they're garbage. they're claimed because game mechanics (like the market) make sharing a region with non-blues at best obnoxious and at worst harmful."
"no need to insure your hulk, seriously noone will dare attack you in highsec, concord has got your back ;)"
"insurance is based off the mineral value going into a ship. t2 ships are mainly just a t1 hull plus some extra components (which are not minerals). thus the payout is fine.if you can't afford two, you can't afford one."
"i know i'm entirely too predictable here but...trebor, can you convey the message to hilmar that many players still enjoy faction warfare and many more would resubscribe and participate again if it were given some development attention? some maintenance on the core mechanical bugs and problems would if nothing else keep a good number of current subscribers around for years to come.thank you for your time, we appreciate it."
"please convey to hilmar that ccp are doing the right thing now, and if they keep doing it, they will be rewarded with increasing sub monies and the love of the players once again. crucible looks like it's going to produce a fantastic increase in the every day \"quality of life\" for the ordinary eve playerbut also that the wounds are very freshly healed and still tender, and if crucible is just a bone thrown to keep the dogs quiet, with ccp intending to resume it's old course again, that there will be no coming back from that. if they do that, the 8% will only be the first drop of rain, not the storm.we've gotten an awesome \"fix patch\". follow it up with a revelations/apocrypha style gameplay expansion patch in summer, and an iterations patch next winter, both pursued with the energy and passion we're seeing now, and ccp will have rebuilt that trust."
"and the new bcs will one-shot a hulk..."
"now you made me feel sad for making fun of someone with no arms and no legs who has to play eve with his tongue.just based on probability the person who goes out mining two to three times a week for 2 hours a day will probably not attract a lot of attention from gankers. the 15 multiboxed hulks eating all the belts in one system 23/7 is what attracts gankers.seriously every time i have shot at miners in highsec it's always bots that i run into.they never safe up after people's warnings (and our witty comments) in local.they never freak out when half a dozen destroyers warp in on them in a belt.there are always 10 of them methodically chewing through the same belts in the same system all day every day in a predictable pattern.i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"true bot are a serious problem. and eve is pvp centered. but there are enough players that like eve and do not want to go to warfor every fart that came out sideways.i still think when tier 3 bc prices level of at about 40 to 50 miljon isk. they are pretty darn cheap hulk gankers.and that 900 dps for the gallente catalyst is for the same reason a gank ship.i think ccp is trying to get rid of bot miners at the expense of real players thus creating an inbalance in the game."
"i think if ccp wants to get rid of bot miners there are easier ways to do it. ccp can simply flag an account that they have verified as a bot account so that concord does not come to their rescue if ganked. make this flag visible to all players. ccp wins as they do not lose the money from that account until the owner unsubs on their own. the gankers win because now they get free juicy targets.the player wins because bots are now cut down by the players for the players.the botters lose, thus everybody else wins.yes there would be room for error on ccps part in flagging accounts. this is what petitioning is for. ccp knows who the botters are anyway. it would be very hard to make a mistake in this regard."
"and a pretty damn cool way to fish too. makes me wish u could use bombs in highsec."
"if we were botting why would we be running bots in our own systems when its safer and more profitable to put them into npc corps and run highsec l4s?"
"while sometimes i think the devs think it would be sexier if it were not the case, i think on the whole i disagree. solo play is a fairly big part of eve and is one of the reasons it has done so well. it had a place for players who just want to pop on for a few hours here and there, who do not have the consistant time or raw hours to be reliable enough for group play.sure it is not the most profitable play style in the game, but sub-par and wrong are pretty different things, esp since 'sub par' is more profitable then 'just does not play'."
"your cries of pain fall upon deaf ears.bring the ganks, death to all miners."
"i would like the statement of \"broken and fix\" fixed.it is a term that is just too broad and vague, especially when i read and i see people describe a feature as broken but they are talking about 2 different things.i would love to see a procedure format or something the describes a problem, sets some assumption or standards and gives solutions. other wise fix hibred by making it the same as projectiles will be the common theme.i would like to see a broken and fix form like they do for bug reports on another note.i personally would love to see, or have the csm see the unfinished road map of features that were planned but never finish, ask which one are easy or difficult to expand on and make some recommendations of what to add onto or request/suggest a slight detour the directions of some projects.keeping in mind that ccp not only has to keep players but also have to attract new ones."
"my top priority subject atm is the bounty system. make it work and introduce a whole new profession en passant. there is a proposal how to do that with limited effort and investment discussed at this board right now."
"my oft-repeated wish list:- netural logistics need to be prevented from docking if they rep someone who is actively engaged in hostilities.- war decs should not transfer, but \"stick\" to their target and be extended to allies. this means a wardec against a corp stays on that corp even if they join and then leave an alliance. it would also allow wardeccing a corp inside an alliance, encouraging the alliance to remove that corp if that is part of the objective. this solves dec scraping and makes it possible to choose specific objectives.- make the initial wardec more expensive, but keep the weekly upkeep the same.edit: i too would love to see the bounty system overhauled."
"with the winter expansion coming along, we all know that the supercarriers will be getting a nerf. the nyx, and aeon will receive a 20% hit to shields, armor, and structure hp's, and the hel, and wyvern will receive 10% hits to shield, armor, and structure hp's.one thing that i saw in the patch notes, was that on titans and dreads, the requirement for capital drone bay is being removed seeing as those ships no longer have drone bays on them. that makes complete sense. they are removing that part of the ship, so they are removing the components from the build requirements.however, the part i am not quite understanding, is why the supers have not had a reduction in build requirements? they will have 10% and 20% less hp, which would mean (logically) that they would have 10% and 20% less shield emitters, armor plates, and whatever the equivalent for structure hp is. if you are going to nerf the supers, then go for it. but reduce the build requirements as well. the build requirements were massively increased when they received the buff that made them what they are now, so it only makes sense that when they are being nerfed, so are the build costs."
"yes need changes, but not reduced requirements but increased building time against supercapital blobs.need to slowing capital online games."
"the sticky at the top of the page is apparently outdated, based on its referencing of csm 4 (we're now on 6) and the old voting system for proposals which no longer exists. also, the csm have stated that they don't actually have anything to do with what ccp decides to work on, and only apparently assist in feedback during the development process. the wording of this old sticky greeting is misleading to many players who might want to get involved in the political process, and causes confusion about the current role and responsiblity of the csm."
"a couple of small tweaks i'd like to see.re-balance cloaks that aren't on cov-ops, recons, and black ops battleships. the ability for ratters, mission runners and the like to simply cloak up when a hostile comes into the system makes for poor game-play. re-visit the command ship class. while some are great, others have been overshadowed by tier 2 battlecruisers, and need a small bump in cpu, grid and slots to justify their price. it would also be nice to see fleet command ships being used for more than sitting at a pos during fleet engagements."
"removing local chat is the solution for that, not messing with cloaks. non specialist ships that equip a cloak take significant penalties for doing so. ideally local would be replaced with a new upgraded scanner system, where people like you can hunt ratters etc down, but they can also avoid your detection entirely based on player effort, skill, and no doubt a bit of luck of both sides. things like cloaks/speed/eccm are what allow the weak or outnumbered to outmaneuver and evade the strong and the numerous, that's good game-play. eve doesn't need anymore reinforcement of zerg/blobing."
"tnx you are true caldari ;)"
"take a look at that \"punkbuster\" program that is used to catch cheaters in fps games. we could use something similar to catch botters.yeah it's kind of an invasion of privacy. what would you guys think if ccp came out with some sort of program that specifically looked for eve botting programs and didn't do any origin style datamining?i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"i would be in favour of eve code that looked for the major botting programs and flagged the relevant account if they detected them. it wouldn't hurt anyone but bots, after all, and botters can die in a fire.also, not a fan of the rmt thing. why would you give any amnesty to the buyers of isk? without them, there'd be no sellers, so both need to die."
"repackaging ships in the sma would be great, too. it'd be nice to be able to haul ships out the same way they were hauled in (battleships in an orca's cargo hold, for instance)."
"i simply wish to be counted among those who support hans jagerblitzen's excellent work championing fw, especially his efforts on threads such as the list compiled at faction warfare: moving fowardi wholeheartedly endorse everything that he is trying to do for fw and hope that the csm would too."
"this one was apparently stealth patched with crucible, yay...csm 7 secretary csm 6 alternate delegate @two_step_eve on twitter my blog"
"agreed. this is a bit of a nasty papercut for pos residents."
"dear eve-player,i propose a balance to the self destructing. due to people not able to log off anymore the remaining way to grief is to self destruct.at this moment you can self destruct and you: don't generate a killmail no loot drops insurance is paid out. while it makes sense that no loot drops (you do self destruct after all), it's dumb that there is no killmail provided. the insurance is something that is also questionable.what i propose: generate a killmail for the last person who shot at the ship. (damage included or not depends on technical problems i presume) no loot drops pay out no insurance this way sd is used for the primary reason it should be used: denying people your stuff. it doesn't however cover the fact that your ship was destroyed.also the timer should be dependant on the ships size. the timer should be that it forces people to use enough dps to be able to kill it. a reasonable timer would probably be around 5-6 minutes for a super. a pod could be lowered to 20-30 seconds.conclusion:the csm has recommended this once already, but nothing happened with it then. ccp is doing a good job fixing a lot of \"issues\" with the game, let's make this the next one?this issue was alrdy raised once by alekseyev karrde, 20 december 2009.the minutes it was discussed in: csm meeting 4.002 // meeting minutes: 2009/12/20 18:18 results were:self destruct should revoke insurancepassed 7/2 (mrs trzzbk, korvin)self-destruct should generate killmailpassed 7/2 (teadaze, song li)self-destruct should \"overheat\" all modulesfailed 7/2 (alekseyev karrde, sokratesz)self-destruct timer depends on ship sizepassed 8/1 (korvin)"
"buff ragnarok and levis"
"1.0"
"this sounds reasonable, to be honest.i like that a player can still prevent you from getting their fit by self destructing, but it doesn't make sense that they get insurance for blowing up their own ship.the timer issue is also a good one - from a rp perspective even it would take a lot longer for all the crew to escape from a supercarrier than from a cruiser.good idea!"
"supporting this."
"1.0"
"jogyn is so hot"
"i do not believe that we should nerf the russian cowards any more, following the super nerf all they have left is there self destruct timers..."
"supporting this"
"+1the fact that you get insurance from self-destructing your ship is silly. it's been an incredibly ******** concept ever since eve was released, and with all the other changes that are happening at the moment, it's time to fix it."
"i've been saying this for a while.they've yanked insurance for concord, do the same for sd. it's logical and consistent. and killmails are a vital part of the way some people operate, especially mercenaries. denying them killmails by blowing up your own ship is silly. it's enough to deny them loot."
"one problem which could arise with the proposed system is the possibility to use this modified bounty system for griefing purposes: you want to create tears? just slap a bounty on that unsuspecting miner ...any idea how to avoid that?"
"addressed earlier in the thread. that unsuspecting miner would have to be at -1.0 security for this to happen."
"i tried to keep the idea as simple as possible so not many resources would be needed. hell, all it really is is math, and not a lot of it. one set of references to a master table that's updated infrequently (and probably offline)."
"my mistake \"pay to win\" is the purchase of items off nex that provide a game advantage to more than anything that can be found in the game by standard means of play. i would also think it would include the items purchase from the nex store but never removed from the market which will cause a deflation on the goods that the player put on sale.convenience item i believe is the purchase of a service or item that another person can produce. such as if an item is purchased off of nex then that same item is purchased off the market by nex. currently a service provided by evegiga and virtual items eu through rmt - which is against the eula. putting rmt companies out of business would be a selling point for me, which results in in decrease cpu and more money put into the game with out these rmt companies leaching off the game.though for me to say yay to mt convenience items: -->the item sold on nex has to be removed from market.--> the nex must attempt to simulate the movement of goods though npc courier contracts or the like so the logistic players don't loose their lively hood -->nex needs to have a large markup when selling the goods so players with out much effort can easily undercut the nex store.-->the security level of the system the item is purchased at should be a variable as lower the security rating the harder it is to get goods to the person.--> the price of items purchased from the nex will go up if the npc contracts are not filled as time progresses and quantities are purchased. this point in necessary unlike many games eve does not have an <U+FFFD>inventory system connect by worm holes<U+FFFD> so i don't want the nex store to be an easy work around blockades--->the high price nex users are paying for will be instant delivery, something other rmt sites can't do.yes jade constantine <U+FFFD> we have had plex for some time. which is fantastic which allow poor player to grind resources for rich players in exchange for game time. it has worked well in keeping many people playing and expanding the universe.but how does that retain the older player who has less and less free time because he has money but not the time to even fit his ship.if he could he would like to pay a few bucks on line buy a prefit ship at his local station and do a couple of level 3 missions before he goes to bed.flying 15 jumps to jita, and then back to your mission location takes up to 2 nights worth of you time. especially when you are working 14 hours a day for some really good money. and would just like to blow something up, and then go to bed. i am not really to concern with loosing my ship either.or how about the new player <U+FFFD> does not no all the tricks of the trades so has to learn to salvage pieces of ship items because nothing is close buy for me to build a decent ship with? and what is this thing called jita or a trade hub. i have no idea what that is since my newbie station is not near there.i would be willing to pay a few isk to buy a prefit kestral just to get started. if some wanker pops me no loss for 50 cents worth of aurrum i can buy another ship.these two play styles would viably exist providing more fund for ccp to move the game forward in new directions with out leaving other sections neglected. the world is changing and the old subscription model is being less and less amiable received now-a-daysdiablo 3: in fact diablo iii is going to come out with a integrated rmt model. which blizzard is able to receive a % from each transaction a play makes to another player. what would you say if eve turned free to play and the game was funded purely by rmt though the nex where if you wanted to make real money off the loot you get from your complex can be sold on nex and you get <U+FFFD>paid<U+FFFD>to play eve vs paying a subscription? will put the pirate rmt guys out of business.even though i feel eve is the centre of my universe, i realize it is not the centre of everyone and my beloved game needs to adapt if its greatness shall continue.i welcome comments like jades, it is helping me to develop my position of convenience mt as apparent from my changing opinions though out this thread."
"i've said it before: valve has already demonstrated how to do microtransactions right, with team fortress 2. even before it went f2p, they were making good money selling vanity items and all in-game weapons.ccp already has a method by which you can purchase weapons: buy a plex, sell it for isk, buy your stuff. i see no reason to place gameplay items in the nex. clearly plex are in demand enough to motivate people to put them on the market.what ccp needs to do is put more vanity items in the nex. paint jobs. logos on space ships and t-shirts. tattoos. ad space on billboards and cq screens.hell, i'd even support something similar to tf2's crates where you find containers which can only be unlocked at the nex and are *guaranteed* to contain rare vanity items that can't simply be bought."
"this is the best thing i have read here."
"dear ccp,i refuse to get excited about captain's quarters, the nex store, or anything else incarna related until i can buy a laser pistol, bust into their captain's quarters, and shoot someone straight in the face.i honestly think poco based sov is a good idea"
"using this logic our airmarshals should be armed with ninja blades and throwing stars (which would be kind of cool, come to think of it). instead they use something called frangible ammo. it breaks apart rather than going through the outer hull of the craft (in theory anyway, less likely to cause depressurization).i think i'd rather see gunfights than widespread sword fighting, but knife fights is interesting. it messes with my sense of eve if everyone is running around with cutlasses and rapiers.personally i could see integrating something like deus ex, which i just ran through recently. timelines are way off, but tone and content wise, that kind of thing could fit great into eve.the more obvious blasters in the bar scenario would be easier to imagine happening.- bar"
"after i started the game and played through the tutorials, i still understood almost nothing about the game.i didn't know how player corporations worked.i didn't know anything about aggression mechanics.i didn't know how wardecs worked.there's a lot more that i didn't know--there's plenty that i still don't. i mention those things in particular because they definitely impact the early play of most new players.i'd been conditioned that eve gamplay primarily consisted of finding an agent and getting a mission. if you don't have prior mmo experience (i didn't) and you don't have an experienced friend to help you (i didn't) you're largely on your own to figure out how the game works.there's not an easy solution to this, but i can say this much: right now the \"tutorials\" deal primarily with the interface and introducing you to various pve content and ship modules. it needs more."
"add the new nebula onto the map to further build a sense of presence. (freelancer anyone?)"
"here's an idea for getting people to vote: create a new faction frigate and only give it to people who vote. it doesn't have to be dramiel 2.0, just something worth having.or maybe a vanity item. or a choice, that faction frig, a *good* vanity item, or *insert third good idea here*"
"if only it were actually a democratic process. it's anything but. there's nothing to stop csm members from voting for or against anything they want, whether or not the constituency that elected them wants it. that's a particular problem for groups outside the big alliances. as long as metagaming is allowed in the csm, it not only isn't democratic, it never will be. if the goal is to have players directly interface with ccp to assist in the overall development of the game, the csm is actually the worst possible way to go about it. the crowd sourcing method and other common rl tools for gathering opinions and information from particular constituencies should be more than enough to fulfill the underlying purpose of the csm. \"direct democracy\" in eve is entirely possible. why should ccp limit itself to the opinions and machinations of a handful of people? why take the risks associated with ndas and such? while i have no direct evidence of anyone acting on information gleaned from their roles as csm members, it seems odd to me that ice interdiction coincided so perfectly with a complete change to the pos fuel system. enough with fake politics and a csm that doesn't truly represent all of the game's constituencies."
"^exactly what i was talking about. what is 100-50? and no, it's far worse than just 100, or just 50."
"i just want info.get me all the info.thanks."
"remember that eve is a massive, many-faceted universe and all those facets need attention, consideration, and new content. also, it would be great to see the game mechanics be made more consistent, and exploits be patched rather than band-aid rules used for years."
"giant secure containers are secure in space, no one can see in them without the password so why are they not the same in cargo?with a ship scanner people can see the contents...ive learnt this the hard way, and its not logical.fix it :)"
"secure containers aren't secure unless anchored in space....that would be the only explination i can think of at the moment.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"which is why i used quotation marks around wrong in my comment. i do like the break from group things to just chill and check markets or mine or pretty much anything ... it's not terrible to run solo ... but the people who get up in arms that there needs to be \"more solo content\" at the expense of everything else are what really drag things down for the \"pro solo play\" crowd(if you wanna see what happens, just look at the threadnarok from earlier this year because of incarna).i will disagree that \"solo play\" is what has made eve do so well -- you don't hear about the dude who plays for 2 hours in a mission drake in the gaming news ... you hear about the 1k man fleet fights, or the huge scams that seemed legit for years that netted one or two people hundreds of billions of isk...as for the guys who have only a few hours a week to play ... there are tonnes of corporations in hisec that are centred around that playstyle..."
"if an afk miner or one that is lazy and not playing safe loses a ship to the new bcs, i say its their problem.an active, properly playing miner will almost never lose a ship to a ganker.mine lazilly, you make the job of the ganker easy.mine properly (dscan not required), and the gankers move on.if you want to know how to mine with low risk of being ganked (other than if you **** someone off), please feel free to message me in game. mail preferred."
"last i checked the resources in 0.0 automagically renew just like they do everywhere else. in fact 0.0 is the place to go for moongoo, etc. so hey, here's a thought: don't burn through so many ships and you will have more money! unfrozen caveman nullbear: \"your money saving ways are strange to me.\"carebear: \"i know but hey if it works for warren buffet and donald trump it can work for you.\"unfrozen caveman nullbear: \"hey man you got tree fiddy? i came up a little short ganking a miner.\"carebear: \"hey i gotta go...\"unfrozen caveman nullbear: \"being a nullbear ranger costs money. lazy ass carebear won't give me what i am entitled to. i guess i will go fill my diaper and cry to ccp. they always seem ready to help nullbears.\"unless i am mistaken 0.0 has multiple empires currently in place that are quite stable. check a map and you will see.here's a fact about empires: they can be really boring to operate. treaties, tributes, trading, taxing and tolls are some of the joys of bureaucracy. how about military garrisons, training and patrolling and trying to avoid burning military resources in pointless and silly ways because we need them for offense/defense?oh and as a rule they want the greatest reward with the least risk possible. true story. empires are not built by constant combat and piracy, not if they want to last. rather they are most successful when they are built by taking and holding space, taxing, tolling, collecting tribute, producing, trading, patrolling, sometimes defending, sometimes attacking.more needs to be done about making this game more entertaining for more people rather than catering to wannabe e-thugs, virtual badasses and commandos-in-their-own-minds who want to feel special.then again that may be exactly what ccp wants. their behavior over the years certainly appears to support that idea.it's not piracy if they took millions of isk out of their own pockets now is it?"
"its standard night for your alliance, the enemy coalition has been encroaching on your territory, putting up towers, so your forming up to fight back. you're in a moros, a dreadnaught, the 3rd most powerful ship class in all of new eden. as you sit in the friendly pos a mixture of capitals and support start landing around you. it's almost time to go. the support gets on the titan for bridging. a scout reports a spike in local 3 jumps away from the target system. it seems the enemy are not going to sit by and let you destroy their pos. your spy on the enemy comms reports they plan to warp straight to the tower and start repairs. a friendly cyno hic is already in the target system, he gets into position 30km off pos in line with the enemy in gate. 2 jumps, 1 jump. they jump in and your hic bubble goes up, they warp straight into his bubble, and he pops his cyno. your fleet jumps. as the system initializes you start following the fcs primaries, easily tracking enemy ships once they are webbed down. on the other side of the pos you can see the remnants of the previous nights engagement. capital and battleship hulls too large disintegrate even as they explode under heavy fire. as the fight draws to a close it is obvious you have won a decisive victory. many new space hulks are now scattered around this moon. it will be a warning for future invaders to stay away. so the basic idea here is to have the ship wreck graphic not be destroyed when someone destroys or salvages the wreck. i think this would create a more interesting universe, where we could go on a pos bash or to a fleet fight, and see the remnants of the previous weeks slaughter. a mark of shame for enemy pilots passing through the system, seeing their alliances fleet from the other night decimated. making the fights we have create a visual mark in the system, not just on the sov map ~levels of immersion~proposal:this is for 0.0 and low sec only - concord runs a ship cleaning service where all wrecks are automatically destroyed to keep space clear. only battleship hulls and above would leave behind the wreck models after wreck icon is targeted and destroyed/salvaged. other smaller craft are too flimsy and fall apart due to the rigors of space without their shields/armor. happens anywhere in the system apart from gates - gates are unstable areas due to the energy they use, and this speeds the process of disintegration. (can include gates if it wouldn't get too cluttered)battleship/capital wreck models last 2/4 weeks, super capitals last infinitely, a constant mark on the universe. this depends on how much it would affect game play. currently even when you remove wrecks from overview you can still see them in space so i wouldn't think it would be too different. wouldn't affect cloaks as the wrecks are insubstantial, just debris."
"in order for wrecks to exist visually, they must be an item. therefore, they will effect cloaks.even missiles will decloak someone if they pass close enough (really hard to do though).also, the lag would be horrendous....certain stations and null sec areas would be unusable because of the insane number of wrecks created in a week."
"definetly a yummy idea, though mayeb supercapitals just stay around for a month or 2? maybe make the whole of all the wrecks from frigs up saty for a monthy or 2, would eb interesting palces to explore. and make it after the month ro 2 is up they dissappar, since everything in sapce not around an orbital body will drift away, adn anything in an orbital body wil slowly crash into the atmosphere.but this is definetly an idea only suitable for once the war on lag has been won."
"well, seeing that ccp is runing into financial problems and that technically there should be no harm in doing this, i support this"
"caldari are missile based. not hybrid based. if i wanted a hybrid boat i'd go for the talos, which by the way is almost exactly the same. why release a laser ship, a projectile boat, and then 2 hybrid boats. how is that even balanced. that basically gives all missile users the finger, a caldari player have to skill up in hybrid turrets just to use it. ((to clarify, i already have all the skills for large hybrid but alot of my corpies don't. they teched up to ravens and scorps, so they cant use a ship of their own race because they don't have the weapons for it.))simply put, we don't need a hybrid ship, there were no missile ships released in this patch and there should have been. it's not fair for caldari players that you release two gallente ships in one patch. -hellz"
"tier 3 caldari ships are turret based. all is working as intended. less tears, more pew pew."
"but you are wrong, caldari do use hybrids, look at the ferox, rokh, cormorant and assorted frigates.if they can't use a ship of their own race because don't have the skill for it, it means that they are poorly skilled and should realise that theres more to caldari than just missiles."
"but all of those give you the option of doing a hybrid/ missile boat. they give you the option of adding in missiles should you so desire, the naga doesn't give you the same freedom. therefore, not working as intended."
"yeah i'm a big fan of my blaster/torp rokh."
"well the thread's not about your sarcastic replies about whether or not you think a torp/blaster rokh is effective. the threads about the fact that we got 4 new ships released and 2 of them were almost identical, using the same weapon class, and missiles didn't get any sorta love this patch."
"you mean the jewcrew did not get any love from the new ships...am i right?"
"troll central up in here :p i suppose you are right ;p but i would like at least an explanation on why this happened, i understand that caldari has a minor hybrid side to them, but to release two ships that are almost identical is kinda wrong. i can fly any of the new ones, but i started as a caldari player. i'd rather have a true caldari ship as my new play toy :p"
"i'm glad to see another caldari hybrid boat, especially in the form of a battlecruiser. i'd also like to see the tengu's hybrid sub get some improvements. saying caldari are missile-only is like saying amarr are laser only: you have to ignore several good ships to make that claim."
"true, but when you think of amarr, you think of lasers, minimatar is projectile weapons, gallente is hybrids, and caldari are missiles. every other race got a ship in line with their primary weapons system, which ensures that a majority of the people that fly that race are able to effectively use the ship."
"if a player, focuses on only one weapon system, that supposedly belongs to that race of boats...like missiles, then that player has effectively wiped out a huge portion of the boats that fall into their racial line, in which they can not fly effectively.amaar needs lasers, missiles and drones."
"every race has a primary and secondary weapon system.gallente: hybrids and drones.caldari: hybrids and missiles.amarr: lasers and missiles/drones.minmitar: projectiles and missiles.the only reason people think \"gallente's primary weapons are drones\" and \"caldari's primary weapons are missiles\" is because of the poor state that hybrid weapons have been in for so long. with the recent buff this is less the case."
"my guys will check that tomorrow after dt :)read and support: don't mess with our wh's what is your stance on wh stuff?"
"the fw band-aid has in fact been applied, and it is a very welcome one. however, it a temporary fix (as i'm sure it is intended to be).just from today, there has been a surge of activity, which is a testament to what a massive source of gameplay fw will be when a little quality time is spent on it.things are definitely on the right course. people have suggested starting with this quick \"tweak\" to get the ball rolling and then to allocate development to an overhaul before the tweak turns stale. i foresee a new set of problems evolving as players settle into the resulting gameplay, because today's fix does not have longevity that the mechanics need to boost and maintain the activity.so step 1 has been completed, let's not stop there.sourem itharen > congratulations lady kadesh, you have been selected by trial of fire and blood, under the watchful eyes of god, to represent lord khanid as his champion in the imperial succession trials -yc117"
"any news about it?"
"[jesus, misread that"
"1) allow repping with no penalties if you rep an fw member when your pirate2) allow other factions to enter enemy space, if a person enters into war and join militia, then why should they be allowed to just carebear in highsec and be protected, thats wrong. they know what the risk is when joining fw"
"1.0"
"i think it's silly. first off, a simple ship scanner will tell you someone's fit. it's not like it's an easily-kept secret.second, once your ship is destroyed, the wreckage could be sifted through and your entire build known. just because modules can't be reused doesn't mean they are completely and utterly destroyed."
"i didn't really mind getting owned by that nyx today. but yeah, that mechanic is dumb.shorten the timer for normal people just trying to pod jump, and make it impossible to activate under duress."
"supporting"
"ill just leave this here. nyx sd"
"+1 self destruct needs to be brought uptodate with the rest of eve."
"yh, it seems crazy that such a short time is needed to utterly rob any benefit of organising this type of kill."
"1.0"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"i support this product and/or service"
"+1 csm, can we please have your input in that matter? is there any chance this can be adressed in the summit?to the op, you should put forth that idea in proper december dummit topic (there are a few in here, all created by trebor, just look for one that "
"i will add my voice to this. i haven't read all responses, so i'm not sure if it was proposed, but:player/s get 25% of destroyed ship value (+ destroyed loot?) just as proposed in op (up to the level of bounty)but at the same time victim gets its insurance reduced by the same exact valueto prevent situation where a t2 ship destroyed gives victim 0 insurance (insurance being much smaller than ship real value) the minimal insurance (as if there was no insurance at all) is always paid out. this minimum could possibly be higher (lets say to the point of cheapest insurance version)this should prevent any form of gamin system (apart from some really extreme mineral/insurance value fraud) what do you guys think of this?read and support: don't mess with our wh's what is your stance on wh stuff?"
"eve online's handling of bookmarks (now \"personal locations\") has improved significantly with the crucible expansion. there is a problem, though.crucible added a limit where if you already have 13,000 locations, then you are prohibited from creating more until you delete enough of your existing locations to drop you below 13,000 again. you can still import them from other characters, but you can't create them. there are 1,907 solar systems in empire space, 3,294 solar systems in outlaw space, and 2,498 solar systems in w-space, for a total of 7,699 solar systems that players can travel to. (source for numbers.) most players won't reach 13,000, but against that many solar systems, 13,000 personal locations seems limiting.presumably, the limit exists to protect the database, which is understandable in and of itself. however, i would like to ask ccp to elaborate in a devblog how bookmarks work from a technical viewpoint. thank you in advance.now to go shove my bookmarks into station cans....survivor of teskanen. fan of john rourke. i have video tutorials for eve online on my youtube channel:"
"i do rather like the implication of the name \"personal locations\" as it would suggest that we will see non-personal (corp/alliance) locations in the future.but i agree, it would be easy to acquire thousands of bookmarks if you made just one or two per gate for scouting purposes."
"never mind the quantities of bookmarks one can accumulate over an extended stay in wormhole space, (i accumulate them at a rate of 300-350 a month...)"
"this.halving incursion payouts is too extreme, many people fly incursions in extremely expensive well coordinated groups. their payouts need to be higher than that of mission runners, however i agree that payouts are currently too high across the board.so... increase competition. it should be possible to find a balance where the best incursion fleets earn extremely large amounts of isk, as they do currently, whilst your average groups earn only mediocre amounts whilst aspiring to join the ranks of the better players. this would probably also encourage organisation of corporation run fleets over public channel fleets.randomizing some events within the incursions themselves may also address the risk v. reward balance, and at the very least make incursions a little less mind-numbingly dull. currently incursions require slightly more patience than missions, in the form of finding a fleet, but once inside are incredibly monotonous and simple. random jamming ship spawns or unpredictable dps spawns would mean that the fc at least has to think when calling targets.as for a system security drop... i'm guessing there would be feasibility issues with doing that outside of a downtime, i also strongly suspect that the moment the system security dropped the incursion would be abandoned. effectively making this solution identical to a decrease in high sec incursion spawns.*the one foreseeable downside to this, and probably ccp's reason for leaving incursions as they are, is the public outcry any decrease in profit from incursions would cause. once you have given a player base something, it is difficult to take it away. even if it would in the long term be better for the game. increasing competition in incursions rather than decreasing payout outright might negate this somewhat, but imho there is no real solution to the problem."
"nope. you know, i find it funny how you keep missing what nullsec people want. we want more people, not more isk. actually, that's not true, everybody wants more isk, but the main problem we have in nullsec now is that there aren't enough pilots there. hence the ongoing shift in enticements to entice people to get into low/nullsec.i'll let you in on a secret: we already have. i make more money off of jita market fuckery than i ever would doing incursions. and i spend significantly less time doing so."
"agreed isk is not really a valuable resourse. pilots and time are the core commodities in eve. that said i really don't think making high a worse place is a good way to make folks want to move. i think my real disappointment in incursions is what they have become as opposed to what they could have been. the idea of ecposing high seccers to coordinated tactics and enticing them with higher profit has potential. potential that seems wasted...."
"yep -- buff mining!seriously though, it wasn't \"nerf everything i don't do\" but \"nerf the safe things a bit more\""
"how about he puts up a post on the sell orders forum and says: \"want to buy, 10 prefit apocalypses with this fitting (includes fitting) this ammo (includes ammo and amounts) and these rigs (lists rigs) - items must be preconfigured and i need a can of quafe and dancing girl in the cargo hold, all ships must be named after no<U+FFFD>l coward plays. all ships to be supplied complete to hek system minmatar space. i will by 2.5x the total jita purchase price of all items for this service.\" and guess what. other players will take him up on that and deliver the ships being paid a premium themselves for helping out a rl cash rich/time poor player who pays for the service by tradiing those plex he bought by doing an extra hour's overtime at work.this is what can happen now, you don't need a nex abortion messing up player interaction in the eve sandbox.what you see as a problem eve players see as gameplay. i would prefer a free-to-play eve with microtransactions to a hybrid subscription + microtransaction model any day of the week, but both of these options are a million miles behind the continuance of the subscription model as primary income and guarentor of all the game's content for everyone. yes gaming is changing in some ways - but its a false argument to hold up the actions of an industry giant and claim everyone needs to emulate that. by the same logic we should be removing death penalty, introducing giant intelligent pandas and dumbing down eve to be furry friendly space friends online just because the market leader is forging this agenda!of course the irony of your remark about diablo3's integrated rmt deal is that ccp have something similar already in plex. they legitimized the use of rl currency for in-game advantage and ensured they made extra income from the plex sales. done deal. and its the only form of microtransaction eve online needs or really accepts. so consider this point that eve itself (the in-space game) doesn't need microtransactions beyond what it already has with plex (which enable rich players to buy convenience and advantage through plex/isk conversation) without destroying opportunity for player interaction in the sandbox. if you want to find a place for microtransactions through nex then i say go out of game items - sell shirts, coffee mugs, magazines, posters, eve-themed bits and pieces out of game. but keep the game-space pure of this stuff and preserve the essence of the game that kept it alive for 8 years. and make no mistake, most games if they'd been as comprehensively abandoned as eve was for the last 2 years would probably have already died by now. eve survived because people know there isn't anything like it elsewhere in the gaming universe and they wanted it to live (despite hating what nexcarna had done to it.)if ccp want more profits they need to grow the game and get it back to a positive upwards trend in subscriptions. i don't believe the rot about the subscription model being \"dead\" because now in this current world environment of financial woe and uncertainty gamers want suspension of disbelief and insulation from the austerity and greed politics in their day to day life. its easy to justify $15 dollars a month (or free if fund your sub through gameplay) as the cost of your leisure hobby - but change the game to a mt model and everything becomes an unwelcome reminder of how nickel and diming is prevelent in the modern world. people play games to forget the bullshit of the real world, not to be reminded of it by ccp monocle and ccp thousand dollar jeans. people have always joked that eve \"spreadsheets\" online seems like a second job, but turn it through mt monetization into \"eve online - second bankrupcy\" and you'll truly see player base erode."
"plex is all they need. and now they are not paying for two separate game development cycles on the income raised by eve subscriptions the only \"must have nex/mt argument\" is pretty void. just no. all this stuff is core content just the same as engine trails, nebulas, turret effects are content. you can't decide that a ship logo is \"vanity\" and an enhanced turret model (that does absolutely nothing gamewise the old one doesn't) is not vanity. its a crazy comparison. this is a subscription mmo, subscription should get you all the graphic content that is worked on through our subscripton money.now i know you're trolling."
"i am concern that mt items will circumvent the player who grind, for ccp to make quick buck.this is why i am suggesting that nex begins to act at a rmt service this will not only to help disable the current rmt badies, but also make ccp money to put back into the game. so i recommend allowing nex to make a percentage profit on the resale of player made items means there will \"never be a p2w\" option. it ccp wants to bring in those items that would be desirable like, remaps, ship colours, logo, unique items etc. they will have to let the player base grind them though lp or some form of industry to be placed on the market for the nex store to resell.this would encourage ccp to follow the directive of everything is player made such as pi... some thing the current nex path is moving away from.with the broker of goods brought to players conveniently approach, the nex store can have a <U+FFFD>massive variety of things to sell<U+FFFD> my experience with ddo and they have convenience items, that i could take the time to sell essence on the market to get the plat to buy the +3 chain a 2 day affair or i could spend the 25 or so store points to buy the +3 chain and it goes into my inventory so i can get to doing adventure right away.(ddo just makes it and simple make it a no drop item which eve does not have)ddo also had things like seasonal candy canes that could make anyone a healer, which made the item a p2win item as you could not find such an item via playing the game normally. will plex simple be a solution as it has allow the effect of mt to happen over the last 5 years? i worked over the previous 3 years but the last 2 years more efficient spoon fed mt has over run the industry. if eve wants to remain competitive in this market it needs to make things easy spoon fed... much like ddo or other games. in summary make the current fashion items player made or lp itemsmake future items like ship colouring into player made or lp items have players place this on the markethave nex buy these items from the market as it as it sells them as mthave nex charge a large markup to compensate for the convenience. this is where ccp makes their $$ccp gets its mt, and players are will never have to worry about p2win ever becoming an issue.i have never read the reports nor know the past work of these experts on mt, so i can't say if ccp is on solid ground or if the vocal minority are unreasonably panicky.all i know i never want my hours of mining grinding ore to have to compete with some one who is just paying for a good some item made out with out grinding. but if some one want to pay too much than any sane person wants to for my item i put on the market, even though i don't get the extra profit beyond what i ask for, i say go a head it is not my money being wasted it.ccp is already providing real world items for sell, but those don't bring in the potential revenue as selling instant gratification items in game. small gratification that is conveniently put at one's feet, so you can casually just pay, pickup and play. ccp needs to find additional revenue or raise the monthly fee of the game. ccp monthly fee has not keep up with inflation.personally i want the lazy, self indulging rich guy often with not much time on his hands to pay for the costs of running the game that is not covered due to inflation.the broker to make the purchase of items off the market convenient approach won't receive a negative selling items flat out at this is a slippery slope.--> first vanity items, like boots or a paint job, -->then convenience items like npc couriers -->then instant re-customization like plex for remap, -->then p2win like gold jovian ammo."
"thisread and support: don't mess with our wh's what is your stance on wh stuff?"
"eve's long term health has to do with income to keep ccp in business and therefore eve up and running. all else is secondary including everyone's fantasies of a 100% sandbox game. ccp gets to say how it goes and has the right to alienate thousands of potential customers and leave millions of isk on the table if they want to. you don't get to.ccp was at least smart enough to see that eve as 100% null-sec would hamstring its growth otherwise don't you think they would have at least shrunk empire space by now if not made it smaller to begin with?eve has certainly held on and certainly has a devoted following but hasn't exactly been a smash hit. it is still a mostly unique game and although it opened almost a year and a half before wow, it just celebrated 350k subscriptions. eve has staying power yes, but isn't setting the world on fire.what is the point of low-sec and null-sec if the payments are balanced against the risk? it's not like there's any real risk when death means nothing and a new ship is just seconds away provided one follows the rule to not fly anything one cannot afford to replace.humans as a group prefer living in high-sec type places rather than low or null-sec and the sooner people decide to accept that as reality the sooner they will be able to work out how to make this game more interesting for all players. or they can keep going and keep the same subscription numbers.this game needs treaties and trade and tribute more than it needs robbing from people who choose to play a style of game that ccp allows even though they might prefer more people spend more time screwing each other over, just to give the money to ccp's pet player segment."
"the problem with that is the moment someone puts on kevlar, those things are useless. a knife, however, will still kill you through a bulletproof vest. and it can be excused as a 'tool' where as a gun is very obviously there for one reason."
"i suppose it means she's even hugging old guys like you"
"if it wasn't for punkturishugs, none of the csm would bother going to the summits."
"easy now boys! and old guy  eve brogrammer  team five 0  @ccp_punkturis"
"i go to get hugs from xhagen and diagoras. no homo."
"plex problem = priceplex is the safeguard to rmt, but rmt is nothing more than bottingif ccp focuses on removing botting, than those few leftover rmt'ers will have no impact on ccp balance scoreread and support: don't mess with our wh's what is your stance on wh stuff?"
"an opportunity for small corps and alliances to move to null without having to bow down to super alliances nor get destroyed within a matter of hours after going out to null.currently that opportunity doesn't exist except in wormholes.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"its time to nerf moongold. its become saturated. every valuable moon location is now known and instantly taken by the power blocs wiht a billion caps etc and there i snothing the average person can do about it. its simply not fair that all an alliance needs to do si put up a pos and thats it to make billions.proposal randomise moongold every 3 months! make people work for it and let everyone have a chance to hit the jackpot"
"1) stop allowing alliances to hold so much space2) alliances can only settle in one region and own only 51% of the stations in that region this gives more chance to others and makes more skirmishes, of course they can just make an alt alliance an take the rest, so that needs to be looked at.3) limit the number of people in an alliance to 20004) add more stations in npc 0.0 regions like venal, gw that hardly has none to allow more ppl to go in and more pvp to happen5) move 0.0 npc regions away from 0.0 sov regions, not right that the sov holders can also control the 0.0 npc region. perhaps move them in between highsec and lowsec"
"op got ganked and is mad. hulk mining won't 'be extinct soon.' nothing to see here people."
"with the most recent expansion of crucible, all dreads have had their capital drone bay removed from production requirements. this now officially makes the phoenix the most expensive dread to produce while doing the lowest dps if it is not firing its native damage type of kinetic.this needs to be addressed now with either the removal of the turret hardpoint or increase citadel torpedo rate of fire."
"+15 that, fed up of being bottom of killmails with garbage damage"
"it also has guaranteed hits with missiles instead of having to deal with things such as \"tracking,\" \"fall-off,\" and \"optimal range,\" and can change damage types to do better damage based upon the structure/shiptype present rather than having to pack multitudes of space-hogging flavors of ammo.0/10"
"against the backdrop of the great changes (in the best side) in many areas that we've seen in recent times, but we want take attention of senior staff to problems with customer support team.now anyone gm will ask: \"what else is on? how can i help you? quality of support in recent months is improving, the average response time for the petition is reduced, and evaluation of customer satisfaction is constantly increasing. this we will report periodically to hilmar in our reports and write about it on the forums ...<U+FFFD>unfortunately, our (not yours) history logs show that:- petition of us refuse to escalate the level of senior gms;- the petition may be closed without a final word gms;- in petition gm can write the answer without showing his signature;- we are faced with the complete incompetence of gms with complex and unusual situations.all my conversation history with gms according my problem i sent to csm6<U+FFFD>smember.eve - one of the best online game right now. now we can<U+FFFD>t say this about the customer support. please, talk about this at the summit."
"-->please continue with the directive that made pi \"reducing npc built stuff and putting into the hands of the players\" nex store seemed to be a step in the opposite direction. is it possible to adjust nex to it follows with this directive.-->adding to th"
"thank you ccp vertex sounding good there, the point i was trying to get accross never seemed to come accross.. but sounds like you know what i was trying to say.. :dus older guys are more interested in game play rather then graphics.. :d hehehhehe but since there more optimised and can be lowered and turned off is ok.. :d ty for a good explanation etc etc.. :d regardsepsi"
"lmao you high mate???"
"i think what would be nice, long term, would be if they introduced an alternate mode that people can play in that have very low graphical requirements which could have a seperate roadmap from the 'pretty' graphics.when i say alternate mode, i mean something like a beefed up version of the current solar system viewer, or the current screen zoomed out to symbols only. another possiblity would be the old style textureless wireframes from mechwarrior 1/2 which were aesteticly interesting but not too processor intensive."
"ahh another game where you get blown to bits and respawn.yay for reality..."
"i want to do it now goddamit"
"of course you do."
"bump"
"yes please.sov warfare might be more fun, as we could finally burn everything to the ground."
"i actually think for everything that is player built it should be able to be destroyed... make it sothis should not apply to npc stations only player built onessupported on that basis"
"already proposed and passed by the csm:"
"unfortunately the message many of us would like to convey has no place in civil conversation. it mostly involves four letter words, vulgar insinuations of mothers, and a display of a finger of choice.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"you mean words like 'epic' and telling him his mom did a good job at raising him and showing him a thumbs up?i honestly do like the patch that just came out (huge-font gripes aside). if they really have turned over a new leaf of listening to their players and they can stick with it, then i'm happy. i echo malcanis' post; if they keep going this direction, i expect good things in eve's future."
"what questions would you like us to ask hilmar? i like asking questions."
"how soon will we see a revamp / iteration / upgrade on the faction warfare system?? what direction is ccp going with fw development?"
"we might even allow a wis expansion in summer 2013 without shooting the jita monument. (see, :18 months: can benefit fis too )"
"voting the way it is, is totally wrong and pretty much vote rigging. being an alliance leader of 2000-7000 members pretty much gaurantees you in, thats not right. csm to be interviewed by senior ccp staff and chosen that way,"
"they dont really go with their name then, or fix the description or something"
"\"giant secure only if anchored containers\" is a bit long for the market window though"
"i suppose it wouldn't hurt to explicitly state in the description that they only secure their contents while anchored and passworded in space.survivor of teskanen. fan of john rourke. i have video tutorials for eve online on my youtube channel:"
"my only concern so far would be with the tornado when setup as an \"instacane\" copycat. it's look silly but check this out none the least:[tornado, insta (1400)]1400mm howitzer artillery ii, phased plasma l1400mm howitzer artillery ii, phased plasma l1400mm howitzer artillery ii, phased plasma l1400mm howitzer artillery ii, phased plasma l1400mm howitzer artillery ii, phased plasma l1400mm howitzer artillery ii, phased plasma l1400mm howitzer artillery ii, phased plasma l1400mm howitzer artillery ii, phased plasma ly-t8 overcharged hydrocarbon microwarpdrivesensor booster ii, scan resolutionsensor booster ii, scan resolutionsensor booster ii, scan resolutionsensor booster ii, scan resolutionreactor control unit iigyrostabilizer iigyrostabilizer iitracking enhancer iimedium targeting system subcontroller imedium targeting system subcontroller imedium targeting system subcontroller ihardwiring - inherent implants 'squire' pg2this puppy ***** out 9,000 alpha with a lock time of 1.2 seconds on an interceptor. 0.5 sec on a bc. load quake l and it goes up to 10,400 alpha. ouch!meanwhile, a \"real\" instacane can not exceed 4,000 alpha by any measure that matters. i can see this ship turning the universe into something silly real quick. i'll be watching"
"why does space have to be safe?this is not an afk game. d-scan, be aligned, and be ready, even when you are in high sec."
"roger that. that's my point, actually. with the setup i posted right above, by the time the brain register a blinking yellow box and start reaching for the warp button, accounting for lag etc, you are already socking up a salvo of 1400s. it's done. blap.this might be too much tbh."
