"very good idea"
"would have to speak to chribba about that :/"
"if not remove, at least several reduce in quantity.(it's my understanding that ice fields don't currently deplete. i'm saying change that)"
"lets see, goons are targeting blue ice, high sec mining.within 24 hours the price has gone from 400 per isotope to nearly 3000 per isotope.....so............ if this isn't a reason on why not to remove it, then i dont know what is."
"this just encourages people to set up shop in one area and never leave... stagnating inter-corp/alliance conflict.it also, ironically enough, does the exact opposite of your goal and kills small scale pvp. under your system... in order to go out for a \"*****-n-giggles\" pvp roam you needs to set up supply lines, get dedicated players/alts to fly the tankers, and/or make sure everyone is in the same ship with the same fit so no one runs out of fuel before everyone else. no small corp has the manpower or the will to do that.a large corp/alliance on the other hand has many, many peons that they can delegate tasks to. \"fleet a (combat fleet) will run point. fleet b (tankers) stay behind one system until refuel is requested.\"now as far as \"the blob\" being spread out because some will run out of fuel before others... well... that kind of thinking flies in the face on conventional wisdom and tactics. if a few people in your group run out of fuel... you do not leave them behind for that reduces your overall effectiveness. instead, everyone will sit and wait for all of their ships to be refueled before moving on as one unit once more. again... this encourages players to team up with more players rather than fly on their own and just makes thing unnecessarily tedious.overall... your proposal makes it seem like you have a big beef with \"big\" ships and that you want to limit their use... almost to the point where you obsolete them in any activity beyond defense fleets and sov warfare (which is still iffy because it seems carriers would perform better than battleships in just getting around)."
"how to complicate a game to the 10th degree of insanity.tldr - not supporting.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"having to stop to refuel my ship every 2-3 systems is absurd. and i mostly fly t2 cruisers."
"not really. it encourages people to fight with their neighbors, in effect creating multiple points of conflict with smaller number of participants.the ease of transportation is never the reason for fights, it just facilitates blobs. therefore making transportation hard does not change the reasons people fight, it just makes hard to cobble up a blob from five different regions and go across half of eve.no, you don't need to. either you limit the range of your roam or it's so long that you can make aquick detour to a friendly station or empire to refuel.note, that 100bs doing 80 jumps is not called a *****-n-giggle roam, it's called blob forece projection. :)not true. the need of tankers scales with the number of ships in the fleet. if a large group willneed and be able to dedicate a comparatively larger group of ship as tankers, that means they have alarge number of combat ships in the first place.compared to the current situation, my proposal introduces a compromise between power and thedistance, on which one is able to project this power - large distances mean less power - eitherbecause of the need to scale down hulls or because of the need to scale down the number of combatships.could you please, point in the proposal where i suggest that a blob will spread out because someships will run out of fuel?please, refrain from making guesses as to what my motivations might be, but instead concentrateon the implications on the gameplay that my proposal would have, try to compare the positiveand the negative effects of such changes to the game and consider which one outweighs which.pain is weakness leaving the body"
"you haven't read the proposal carefully, have you?it's explicitly written that:a) it's battleships that are limited to 4-5 systemsb) t2 cruiser hulls have between 150% and 250% bigger range than battleshipswhich even under the current tentative numbers would mean that t2 cruisers would be able to cover fast 10-15 systems range (and slower - unlimited range).how did you get that 2-3 systems?pain is weakness leaving the body"
"because the addendum to your idea about reducing the \"size\" of in-system warps isn't really feasible. if you were a coder would you want spend a godawful amount of time \"reducing\" the size of 5000+ star systems just for the sake of a single mechanic that encourages people to \"turtle up\" in a single area of space?edit:so basically if there are no targets in my area i am effectively forced to go back to hq and dock or spend time setting up a supply line for a fight that might not happen (as is so often the case).how does this encourage pvp again?i don't know about you... but if i have to have to spend time and isk buying fuel then that i'm certainly not going to roam around aimlessly unless i have a damn good reason for doing so (e.g. there's actually a fight to be had). note: this is why i so seldom use my carrier. i hate dealing with \"fuel issues.\" if it wasn't so useful i would had sold it by now.as for 100 battleships... no. try more in the range of 10 to 15 or so assorted battleships and/or battlecruisers and/or hacs and/or cruisers and/or frigates. is such a group considered \"blob force projection?\"so basically if i am part of a small gang and do not have the manpower to dedicate people to the task of refueling then everyone is forced to use smaller ships against god-knows-what in whatever system we all end up in... and said inhabitants will not be limited to using small ships as we are because they don't have to travel and \"waste\" fuel.again... how does this encourage pvp (especially small \"skirmish\" gangs)?alright. here's what i see...basically your idea forces me to chose my ship based on ease and economy rather than tactics and counters. it forces me to choose between staying in a certain area or spending my gametime tediously setting up a plan to go out on a random direction i have never been to before because i want to find more targets. there are many reasons why i hate 0.0 living... and logistics crap like this is one of them."
"oh, i am a coder and i can assure you the required coding effort is negligible.you don't think a dev goes one by one over each solar system, changing by hand coordinates of jump gates, do you?pain is weakness leaving the body"
"they have had to do this in the past. they don't like it very much and usually \"break\" something in the process."
"i'm glad to hear they have experience with this. thank you for your input.pain is weakness leaving the body"
"terrible idea"
"thank you.do you think that the stated goals are terrible?or do you think that the proposed changes would have consequences different from the ones, stated in the proposal,and why?pain is weakness leaving the body"
"what would happen, if you run out of fuel in a battleship in 0.0, and there are no people nearby who can refuel you, would you just wait until someone scanned you out, came along and popped you?"
"no, you would proceed to warp at a reduced warp speed. given that i have to repeat that ships can warp without fuel in almost every reply of mine in this thread, it's obvious i have to make this information stand out more.pain is weakness leaving the body"
"making fuel pointless anyway?"
"no, fuel won't be pointless, because it would provide increased mobility and increased mobility will be very very important and not easy.pain is weakness leaving the body"
"this entire proposal is made of fail. are you trying to kill eve? gtfoi am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"and because it won't be easy, people won't be doing it for a little ***** and giggles roam. you can't just go take some hacs or bcs out on short notice with this proposal, like a lot of people do now. if you're lucky, you can take some rifters out and die to the first smartbombing bs you see. that's it. no cynabal gangs, no nanohac gangs, no muninn fleets, welpfleets, bomber fleets, no dics or hics, no logistics, just rifters. no fun allowed."
"of course, you exaggerating, but, yes, that's the idea. you can have all that, but it will be slower and/or shorter range. force projection would have drawbacks and involve compromises.the concept of deep blue space 40 jumps around would a need to be revised, eh ? pain is weakness leaving the body"
"so...you actually do want to stop roams then?not to mention restricting deep nullsec logistics to people who own jump freighters and pretty much no-one else? making multiple titan bridges absolutely mandatory for the few fleets that might still be possible? why do you hate fun?the concept of 'living in 0.0' would need to be revised, eh?"
"what is stopping you?the issue of deep space logistics is specifically addressed by making the effective \"fast warp\" range of freighters, industrial and transport ships very large - i put it at 1000au, but no problem to be 2000au, the concrete value is a matter of game balance and can be tweaked indefinitely.exactly, the current concept of living in 0.0 needs to be revised.of course, if you like current 0.0 very much, just say \"we like 0.0 as is, no need for these changes, period.\" pain is weakness leaving the body"
"the fact that i don't want to deal with dumb logistics crap for a simple pvp roam that might take me anywhere. revised in such a way that it encourages people to stay in one general area and create more logistical headaches if anyone wants to actually do something?i agree that 0.0 needs an overhaul... but not this. this just kills it. the same way it will kill small roaming gangs."
"nothing requires you to do \"dumb logistics crap\" for a simple pvp roam. well, you will be a little limited in range or speed, but, hey, it's eve, there are always compromises and drawbacks. yes. encourages multiple smaller entities distributed all across eve, every one of them fighting with their neighbors, as opposed to a few megablobs that easily wage war at the other end of the galaxy.and, of course, encourages, but does not confine them.no. create more logistical headaches for anyone who want to blob and for anyone who has blued everyone and his sister 50 jumps in any direction.and that's good (tm). i like that you see the same implications from my proposal as i do. pain is weakness leaving the body"
"unless you, you know, want to fly something bigger than a rifter or maybe a stabber. or if you want to go outside of the region you live in and it's immediate surroundings.(i hate the new forum sometimes.)"
"alternativley, encourages massive blobs surrounded by buffer pets. no enemy roam would make it through the buffer pets without running out of fuel, so your billion isk tengu would be safe to run sanctums all day long. [/quote]yes. create more logistical headaches for anyone who doesn't live right next to empire, where they'll be able to get fuel from easier, or for anyone who likes to roam, to hotdrop, to play around in bombers, hacs, recons, anything bigger than a rifter. i like to see that you have literally no idea what you're talking about.also, why, exactly, is having friends a bad thing?"
"because you can't shoot them. ps. apropos, thank you for voicing your concerns.pain is weakness leaving the body"
"i see you've never been on a shoot blues op."
"obvious troll is obvious. this would crush the market for everyone in high sec and wormholes that depends on the ice to survive. side effects would spill over into insane prices on t3 ships, many pos's failing and wormhole corps being unable to maintain themselves. the sheer stupidity of this idea indicates the op must be a troll."
"removing the ability for cheap 'robotic' labor to take our jobs and push the prices down so far that it's not really worth it for people to do when actually sitting at their computer while playing the game = a good thing!"
"people like you are why csm is such a joke.you know what's also not worth it? ice mine in lolzsec. without major changes to make barges survivable/useable, no highsec ice = no ice, period."
"your jobs? please, like you've mined a block of ice in recent memory. all this would be is a massive, economy crushing blow to highsec and wormhole space.i dunno... maybe it'd be worth it selling tengus for a couple billion, who knows? i'm sure all the tengu pilots that don't make their own wouldn't mind paying that..."
"market speculation is obviously something decisions should be based on, not the eventual stabilization point, right?"
"no, it shouldnt happen it would be completely ********..ice should deplete and ice systems should be random, or ice should require exploration to find ice fields. ice should never be removed from highsec."
"yes i think it would profit eve very much if ice was removed from highsec quote ccp fozzie: ... the days of balance and forget are over."
"i agree that it is not a sideshow. my point on the matter of pi becoming an actual profession is that like mining you really need to love doing it. any yutz with a pos can make is own fuel. i would rather like to see pi professionals doing that and making the money there. in real life how many people who own cars make their own gas? not a great example but there it is. ~loki"
"i doubt your proposal would contribute anything relevant to your aforementioned goals.1. it discourages going solo. especially over long distances. => if you use one account, you can't bring a fuel tanker with you by definition, unless your heart tells you to solo in a battle fuel tanker. therefore, you will be limited in either fuel range or ship type. if you choose to get into expensive ship types anyway, you may be trapped between hostile gates in said expensive ship.=> if you use more than two, you still won't want to swap a combat ship with a fuel tanker.2. it discourages going in groups smaller than a certain critical mass. suppose an average deep space tanker can support 25 t1 bcs for the duration of a roam. (75 jumps, a total of 5000 aus because of warp in/out maneuvers.) in this case, the critical mass of fleet size would be 25 t1 bc equivalents per tanker. if your fleet consumes less than 25 t1 bc equivalents, the remaining fuel capacity gets wasted, similar to unused fitting slots. the waste in fuel capacity would become more pronounced in small gangs (less than half tanker equivalents), so small gangs would have to make a choice of self-penalization;=> bring a tanker instead of a combat ship.=> don't bring a tanker, but downgrade ship classes. (t1 cruisers instead of t1 bc / t2 cruiser / command ships)=> don't bring a tanker, maintain ship classes. risk losing mobility and getting trapped between hostile gates.in the meantime, larger fleets(blobs, more than two tanker worths) would simply delegate fuel hauling duties to the least experienced/skilled members(analogous to unskilled manual labor), thus losing relatively less combat effectiveness compared to small gangs.3. malcanis' law. anything that tries to reduce the penalties on small gangs would benefit larger gangs much more, thus defeating the purpose of introducing \"warp fuel\" in the first place.therefore, not supported."
"it does not discourage going solo more than it discourages going in blobs. in fact it indirectly encourages going solo - you don't have to wait for gang members to come (slowly) from across the region and your targets are slow to get reinforcements.i don't understand. how you can be trapped in a way that you can't be trapped now? perhaps it would have such effect, perhaps not. it's not really interesting and i won't discuss it, because i have never proposed a deep space tanker to be able to support 25 t1 bcs for 5000au.i proposed a deep space tanker to be able to support 3-4 bs for 50% increase in range, that's 200au worth of bs fuel, let's say bcs have half the bs consumption, therefore 400au of bc fuel, almost, but not quite doubling the range of a single bc.perhaps these numbers can be increased, but nowhere near supporting 25 bc for 75 jumps.if you ask malcanis, you may find that he has very similar attitude regarding slowing down ship movement across eve.pain is weakness leaving the body"
"a well trained blob can simply bring a fuel tanker along as if it is bringing another fleet command ship. solo pilots can't do that, by definition.a hostile and well fueled blob, warping at 3~3.6 au/s (interceptors at 9~16 au/s, and in case of 0.0, interdictors at 6 au/s), outmaneuvering the empty solo pilot/gang crawling at 0.2~0.5 au/s. the only way not to go down in this case would be to keep running rolling safes until the next dt comes.numbers are just numbers in this stage. i simply used it to make the analysis more quantitative.(your numbers are severely limiting as others have stated before, but that's not important either.)still, small gangs of less than 10 have to pay an arm to bring a tanker because each member counts, while larger groups can keep their combat effectiveness by delegating fuel hauling duties to non-combatants / less experienced pilots. can you explain how this trend encourages small gang activities?then you can simply cite his opinion. the burden of persuasion lies onto you."
"crappy idea. wormholers regularly travel what would seem like insane distances to many simply to get stuff to market and bring needed items back. this just adds added and unnecessary cost to us."
"a well trained blob must first be assembled from individual pilots. it does not just appear out of the thin air.once a blob is assembled, of course, a solo pilot will have the same chance as today.yes and the well fueled solo pilot/gang outmaneuvering a hostile and empty blob. it works both ways.pain is weakness leaving the body"
"no, the proportion of required fuel support is the same regardless of gang size.the small gang is encouraged, respectively, that blob is discouraged at the stage before and atforming, not that my proposal somehow allows you to solo pwn a blob, once the said blob isformed.forget the current situation, when pilots idle in a single capital system. this is due to the easeof movement - people can quickly assemble from their usualratting/mining/whatever grounds to thecapital and can also quickly disperse to their usual places for making money from the capital.instead, consider - you have 20 pilots in 20 systems ratting, 10 miners in this system, 10 more inthat system, 5 people exploring in random places, 5 doing a plex here, 7 doing a plex there, 2following an escallation somewhere, 10 hauling stuff from empire, 20 fueling poses and bridges, 10camping a gate over there ...if you're gonna wait for all of them to assemble ... well good luck.on the other hand, the same applies to your red neighbours, they aren't likely to form a defenceblob very quickly, so why don't go with whatever you can assemble, instead of waiting a hour for theblob to form?and there's a second aspect, it's not only numbers, but also power. in my proposal, forming aheavier blob is discouraged by limiting its range, compared to a lighter blob.pain is weakness leaving the body"
"would you care to elaborate? because in this form it's a crappy opinion.what is \"insane distance\" and what ships do you use to travel?pain is weakness leaving the body"
"well, let's put it this way... when i enter k-space and find a hole 20 from jita, that's a good day depending on how many lows are between me and high. i've gone 30 or more simply because the opportunity to do so was there. a hole 6 from jita... that's a party waiting to happen!"
"i will have to repeat: what is \"insane distance\" and what ships do you use to travel?perhaps you shouldn't go to jita? with my proposal, it's likely more market hubs to develop - the harder to travel, the more likely people to buy and sell locally. also, i have specifically addressed the issue of logistics - the transport ships retain their current mobility for the most part. it should be rather obvious for anyone that cares to read the proposal and the discussion thread, that the proposed changes are directed mostly to combat ships.even considering that you escort your cargo ships through lowsec, still the movement of the fleet will be limited by the movement speed of the cargo ships, which would be the same as now.pain is weakness leaving the body"
"it's added expenses for no benefits whatsoever. fortunately, they'll also not go and change every ship in the game to implement this, so let it die the inglorious death it deserves."
"thank you for your opinion.pain is weakness leaving the body"
"if you have ten guys, putting one in a tanker is going to have a much, much bigger effect than if you have a blob. in a blob, you're going to have enough people who have enough alts to fly the tankers without taking a combat pilot. in a small gang, this is less likely.[/quote]except that people won't spread out like that. they'll be within a jb or two of the capital system, or they'll keep an alt there, or just jump clone. you'll still have people like me who don't rat, mine, plex, explore etc too.and as for the same applying to the reds, well, why is that a good thing? what benefit would this have to the guys who fly out into red space looking for good fights? the guys who enjoy spanking home defence fleets, or who want something more challenging than a guy who logs out, docks or hides in a pos when reds get within five jumps? why spend serious isk on fuel when you an just go and play a game that doesn't actively punish you for attempting to do something until the reds get bored and/or run out of fuel?"
"go rant elsewhere if you ain't got anything constructive to say.we already know that you don't like the proposal.pain is weakness leaving the body"
"and we already know that you outright refuse to listen to anyone pointing out it's obvious deficiencies, so let's both shitpost together :)"
"not empty quoting."
"this proposal is bad and you should feel bad for making it."
"then please explain how you would properly fuel yourself, when you are in hostile territory, while using only one account.(hint: if you use more than one account, it's no longer solo.)"
"obviously, you won't be able (or it won't be easy) to refuel yourself when you're in hostile territory. just like you won't be able (or it won't be easy) to restock ammo, paste, get repairs, unload loot ...why do you presume that you're entitled to that?of course, same applies to hostiles on your territory.like i said, it works both ways.pain is weakness leaving the body"
"in summary, do not consider \"fueled warp\" the default state.the default state is painfully slow warp and bigger eve.the fuel is merely there as a little remedy.pain is weakness leaving the body"
"gonna stop writing now, because trolling has become excessive. pain is weakness leaving the body"
"thanks for the support.personally, i prefer option 2 but i'd be happy with option 1."
"here is a post that explains the problem without realizing it.this pilot just believes that the other fw pilots are afraid to pvp. when in fact amarr pilots can't fit their ships for pvp if they want tto run plexes effectively. so thy can't really fight other players. you can find these sorts of posts over and over again. people claim fw pilots don't want pvp, but the fact is fw plexers can't even fit their ships fo pvp if they want to do plexes.its way past time for ccp to make fw a pvp activity.make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"shameless bump. lets keep this at page one permanently, guys."
"yes...this thread deserves way more attention than it is getting. yes...hint hint ccp!"
"considering the impact something like this would have on the market, it wouldn't be prudent to cut it cold turkey.ccp is doing well with this by making high sec ice deplete and with just enough to meet demand of high sec, from there they can determine the effects and the next action to take, perhaps it will be to just remove ice from high. the goal is to stop alliances in 0.0 form shipping all their fuel from high sec instead of mining it in 0.0, cutting out all ice may be overdoing it to each said goal.i've actually made a proposal to help with that, the benefit targeting smaller corps. its a minor change with little to no real fallout but i think it goes a long way simply from having that option.lol one of things i mentioned in my post was the need for more people to kill mining barges in high sec. although it was only in jest."
"good one, i laughed so much it hurt. this has nothing to do with botting or making ice mining a profitable profession and everything about creating a viable non tech based monopoly with which to fund gsf's ship replacement program."
"just to point something out:there seems to be this strange idea that ice mining = botting. this is wrong. cycle is so long that one person can control dozens of barges and watch tv at the same time. the ice miners are people, just mostly afk. macros are used in ratting, ore mining, chaining prescaned sanctums, since they're far more profitable, while unlike missioning or incursions, can still be handled by macros. it's a waste to use them on ice just to save clicks for the automated program."
"i stopped reading when he said no one mines ice in 0.0.granted they may ship in some ice from 0.0 but the ice in 0.0 is far more \"rich\" than the crap you get in high sec.obviously this is a glorified troll.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i dont understand why goons would randomly shoot high sec ice miners. they say they are getting rid of \"bot miners\" but they have no way of knowing who is a bot and who is not a bot. i got popped by one of these goons loosers while getting up to peee and get a drink. spouting off in local about mittani telling them to go kill all high sec miners in gallente space. and the only ones that are safe are the ones that donate isk to goons. some of you might say game mechanics but we all know that is a bunch of crap. i can support random sucide ganks of miners because that is game mechanics.i also think the ice should be limited and run out just like normal but with out being able to keep bots in check all the ice would be gone 2 hours after down time."
"i would like to see all high-sec mining (ice and roids) moved to exploration mining (low quantities per site, with a high respawn rate, and a maximum duration, to cycle the spots almost empty). the micro-management of the spawns size and rate would allow to help limit the explosion of material cost (even if it would mostly make alloys more expensive and farmed).that s a great way to limit botting, and make mining a valuable profession... while making low sec, null sec and wh mining more important.for ice mining, the composition of ices (or the availability in null/low) should be tweaked to allow a full autonomy from high-sec old sources.true, it does not solve null sec botting, but this is only a first step.next step would be to increase exploration importance for null sec, to allow mining non standard materials (that lack in null), and limit the types of roids available in normal belts.for low-sec, a middle ground solution can be found, as their roids contain most materials, but who mines in low ?for wh, low-end roids should be more available, to allow some autonomy, depending of the class and type.it is true that it would be a lot of (bot) subscriptions cancelled, as mining would not be that easy, but any change cause such claims anyway."
"when something that you use every time you undock is given the option of \"being better\" with a bit of isk... especially when \"better\" = you can outmaneuver anyone who doesn't use/have it... it stops becoming optional.and again... smaller groups will have less options than bigger groups in amassing the resources necessary to stockpile/get isk for it."
"i like your first suggestion, perhaps make the agent a scan-able site instead to enable more accessibility to them and draw more people from high sec, instead of having her perma-camped and unused.expanding on that, have scan-able pirate faction lvl 1 agents in 0.5-0.6 systems, lvl 2s and rare lvl 3s in low, and lvl 4s in nullfocus the missions more on gaining small valuable loot, and against less but more powerful ships that will warp away for your third one i must disagree.pirate null is already being worked on to give players benefits for being on the good side of the ruling faction. i don't see why pirates in empire space would get a bonus, they don't have any authority there, where would this come from? and what is the purpose of it?if you want system bonuses and 100% reduction in sentry gun dmg go to npc 0.0 after december...what low sec really needs is more then just people camping gates, one thing could be ice mining. with ice belts depleting in high, low sec ice may become more popular, and in order to assure that people need a viable way to work there even in a small fleet. that's why i made this proposal."
"low sec icem ining will not beckome more populer, to much pirates to deal with beter minrs wil move to 0.0 then to low sec."
"incursion has brought people into doing the sites. people just do them in cheaper ships in ls, whs also grants small terrific due to people moving their nice ships if they can't get a hs entrance through low sec. these are just harder to catch to due to scouts etc. hs missions is what really killed low sec. due to it being the norm now taking away hs missions would cause a lot of rage. that route is not the best option anymore. adding some more features to low sec of alternate ways to make more or close to the same amount of isk compared to hs missions is always a benefit to somewhere. the pirate missions also suit pirate players due to they don't care about their sec status/hs standings because they can't all ready go there.sure fw mission blitzing is still good isk."
"topic unlocked. it appears it was closed in error."
"do want."
"also, remove acceleration curve, implement warp from standstill."
"yes<U+FFFD><U+FFFD><U+FFFD> i totally agree with this, i was wondering the other day looking at warping animation if someone had already brought this subject to the forums :) i also dont like how if you are at max speed and initiate warp how your ship stops then the warp animation beging and slowly start to warp just makes no sense and i think it breaks the experience of warping it breaks the sensationi totally agree with this so.... punch it<U+FFFD><U+FFFD><U+FFFD>"
"my favourite 'jump to warp' animation is the one from farscape."
"bump"
"what your are saying is, if i want to change name of my character i would have to transfer said character to another account i own? well, i could live with that.but, why not cut on complexity and simply make name changing a separate service?"
"alerting the other militia everytime a plex is being ran doesn't fix some of the core issues that makes plexing unappealing. stabbed alts will still warp off and run a plex elsewhere and you can still chase them (it's not hard to find where certain people are plexing it's not rocket science). this mechanic will not induce more small scale pvp, infact it will diminish it. we have to take into account population discrepencies that may occur over the course of time on daily basis and even the longterm. for instance, fw usually has times during the day where one side has a stronger presence than the other and it shifts from one side to the other as people log on/off, when the faction thats outnumbered is plexing, the other side should have to do some legwork to find them because, well they have the advantage and the side that's outnumbered has the chance to capture the plex before the full fury of the blob descends upon them (or at least they get to kill a few first responders before being forced out). when one side is outnumbered (in some instances, severely) they need to attack where the enemy isn't prepared. if the enemy is too lazy to hunt you down that their problem. it forces people to spread out because you have to be out there scouting, looking for the enemy. listing where the enemy is, and what they're in with zero effort on behalf of a player is just a broken mechanic. i can envision it now, (assuming occupancy was the focus of fw) blobs sitting in station waiting for a notification of who, what, and where the enemy is and ships specifically to counter the enemy fleet/shiptype. \"oh they're in cynabals? let's break out the td arbys\" comes to mind. this change would make plexing even more gay than it is now. doing the legwork (ie, having pilots out there scouting systems to see who is plexing and where), actually helps a lot with creating small gang scenarios for pvp). the whole npc situation is tricky. completely removing npcs will give rise to just everyone and their mother making several trial (or non trial) accounts with recycleable, untrained, stabbed plexing alts in cheap little frigs. npcs serve some purpose in this fashion. i believe that ewar should be completely removed from all npcs in fw plexes (or at the very least, have the number of ewar npcs severely reduced in a plex). another issue at least with major plexes is npcs take too long to die if you're solo/in a small gang. i think the ehp of the npc battleships/elite ewar boats should be reduced, making them easier to dispatch with a bc. a full spawn (at least in terms of missiles) is devastating and the dps should be lowered (but increase explosion velocity to help with smaller targets, ie, kill afk speed tankers), maybe even nerf npc dps across the board some. the overall function of the npcs should be to force players to at least bring an appropiately sized ship and to eliminate the \"untrained alts\" so people just can't afk cap plexes with them. there's a lot of tweaking to be done with the npcs but i think this is a step in the right direction.here is last couple issues with fw plexing:the first and most obvious one is there is no incentive to beyond initial standings increases. occupancy isn't meaningful. it should be. i'm not going to divulge into this right now i'm just going to point it out.lastly, there's the nothing to do syndrome. after downtime most plexes are captured and there is very little left to do in some areas, which leads players having nothing to do for the rest of the day. (there is \"shifting\" a practice that involves plexing in other systems within the same region to get seemingly random respawns within the region. it's a lot of work and really boring, but it's the only way to hold your systems if you don't have the european timezone dominant presence. it's not even possible to hold occupancy in systems where the opposing faction holds sovreignty unless you have eu timezone dominance, as afaik, you cannot get respawns with shifting in these systems). when there are no plexes to take, people obviously aren't going to participate in this activity because they just can't. the \"casual\" nature of fw should allow people to log in and find something to do within a reasonably short amount of time, not wait one to two (or more) hours for a random respawn (that resulted from shifting) that may or may not occur. (note: shifting becomes less and less valid of a tactic the smaller the region is).the obvious solution is to have periodic spawning of plexes at regular intervals (set a cap on the maximum amount of plexes in any given system though) so players actually have the opportunity to participate in this activity if they aren't on after downtime. an alternate method is to have there always be a plex spawned within a system/a certain number of plexes within a constellation (shifting on a smaller scale if its constellation), but this would obviously need to increase the number of plexes needed to be captured before a bunker becomes vulnerable."
"i hate to be the guy to burst the proverbial bubble but.... there is a reason it's called the dead horse thread, and that's cause ccp let the horse die years ago and via their inaction to fix pos's told us they don't give a hoot about our hints. if you want pos's to be fixed i suggest you crash jita, that's about the only thing large enough to get their attention and make them respond. i'd wager there have been more ideas fielded about how to fix pos's than any other topic, and you see where we are at still. personally i'm going to curse ccp and then continue playing knowing one day i'll move on from this game just like i eventually moved on from runescape and wow. when companies stop thinking they know what a player wants better than the player knows what he wants is the day pigs fly. in short, you aren't getting pos fixes sry man i really am."
"but it is still a nice idea!stormhammer 666 ceo arse _another really stupid enterpris_e"
"i hate to be that guy who feels the need to point out the very obvious flaw that everyone know about.fact is pos are old and needed changing.ccp needs to put some time into changing them.the flogging the old horse thread was a great place where people discussed why it was so important that they change and is still very important today.it doesn't matter if ccp is slow, they are getting slowly back on the ball after a bunch of terribly implemented ideas.since we have new forums this needed to be one of the first threads before all the stupid people whine about afk cloakers and nerf xyz it's too powereful and more importantly it needs to stay relevant."
"this is an outrage! i wanted to buy a dress so i could feel sexy for once, but i have been denied my rights! i call for unisex dresses to be sold immediately as i feel i'm being discriminated against. i refuse to spend my aurum until i can get a nice looking skirt.and maybe some more makeup. i'm mad as hell and i don't need to take this anymore!"
"i second this. since i am the man behind"
"i like the direction this idea is headed. like posted above, if you incentivize anti-piracy, you should also improve piracy itself. i still think the \"corruption\" concept presented at eve vegas was great, with sort of safe havens for pirates. combined with the op proposal and maybe a reworked bounty system this could be awesome."
"on the eve main page at the very bottom there used to be a tiny little selection you could find that listed the \"plans\" for the future.it listed a variety of things the devs wished for coming in the future. it's been removed now, because most of them have actually come to fruition, such as planetary interaction, walking, faction warfare and a few others.one of them listed was called \"low sec viceroys\" - i don't agree with the system you are proposing. if you've tried fw, you'll understand why the fw system really isn't a good system.however, the viceroy-ship of low sec would still be a fun way of having \"sovereignty-lite\". i don't know what you could specifically do with it, and that's probably the major reason there is no big push for sov-lite in low sec, however, i'd say there's a lot of reasons that it could be a viable tool for low sec."
"well they said they wanted to do something of people working as concord in a fanfest but that they were triying to find ways of people not being to exploit this. maybe someone can have concord status and pass intel to their frineds of were is soemone going and traps etc...but is a good raw idea"
"to the goons,maybe you should practice what you preach ...its funny how all the goonie hulks automatically log in and then out evey hour when a hostile issitting in your mining systems.fix the csm voting system so these muppets can't wreck the game._______________________________________________"
"it would be altogether terrible if you removed ice from hisec without adding it to wormholes. wormhole logistics is complicated enough without making it worse."
"ok so i wake up and this is the eve mail i find when i log on. greetings:you have been identified as one of the unfortunate miners who has suffered the loss of his ship within the last 24 hours of goonswarm's ongoing effort to stop the environmental destruction of new eden and ensure that the faulty belief that ice mining is a profitable enteriprise ends. we are sad to see that you were caught up in our effort, but we do hope that you understand this was nothing to do with you in particular, but more to do with your chosen profession. we goons are environmentalists.that said, this is a one time offer. if you will pay 500,000,000 isk you will be protected from further destruction. this one time payment will protect you in only one system, so make sure you point out which system you ice mine in when you reply! payment is immediately noted in our goonswarm public boards and all goons currently participating in the effort to eliminate miners will be notified immediately as well via evemail and notification on our internal jabber system.in your payment's comment line, please ensure you note the system you are mining in. once paid? mine to your heart's content and enjoy the upwardly mobile price of oxytopes.thanks,venus vermillion,goonswarm recruiter and public representative.does anyone else find this mildly disturbing!!!this is the alliance that is suppose to be looking out for all of us in the csm. its this kind of crap that makes me want to cancel all my accounts"
"you came here expecting us to respond with sympathy?================ stop the evemail spam!"
"not one to side with drake... but sympathy can be located in the dictionary somewhere between **** and syphillis.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"nope i never look for sympathy. in my opnion it is what it is. i just want to bring it to light, i think people should know the corruptness of the csm"
"if you actually did a little research, there is a distinctive reason they're doing it. it is to limit the ability to use gallente supercaps (i.e. the nyx-class supercarrier is a current favorite). crippling the market on fuel for these behemoths is a valid means of warfare. it's called cutting supply lines. if goonswarm federation controls the ice, they'll be able to wait until the fuel supply of their enemies dwindles, and/or put it on the market at such a markup that it'll force their enemies to find alternatives.if i were you, i'd find a way to profit from this. like find the cheapest oxygen isotopes on the market, buy in bulk, immediately mark up, and resell.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"what corruption, dude, it's just an ordinary scam. pain is weakness leaving the body"
"tin foil hat really clashes with your fashion sense.honestly they're doing it because they can.and disrupting super caps by cutting off \"fuel\"?reaching at best.goonswarm has been ganking mackinaws for as long as i can remember.... and its always something they get a kick out of and manage to pull in a profit when they get someone to fall for a scam.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"if you can rub two brain cells together, you'll notice the bs in their excuse to be goons.any entity that can afford moms won't be bothered by jump fuel prices going up a few times. exploiting game mechanics for lulz is a valid means of being goons."
"have any of you considered that the turret size is really small?? i can barely see the turrets in my abbadon i wanna feel that i am carriying a bazooka when i am in a battleship not a water pistol"
"i am hereby calling on darius the third to relinquish his counsel of stellar management (csm) alternate seat as he has disgraced the office and no longer possesses the moral authority to continue on in this capacity. darius the third, or darius iii, recently leaked information from the csm skype channel to en24 editor riverini violating the trust fellow members had placed in him and trampling over the spirit if not the letter of the non disclosure agreement.his actions have proven that he can no longer objectively represent the eve online community and as a result he should be relived of those duties through either voluntary resignation or forced abdication by ccp."
"i second this."
"so say we all."
"i second this"
"i support this proposal."
"kick darious iii."
"i too support this"
"so then you're establishing that this is the punishment for \"leaking\" information? removal from the csm?i feel this is simply political maneuvering to remove the voice of the citizens that darius represents. i find your tactics abhorrent, and i feel that it places a shadow of corruption on this council that will remain forever if this proposal is allowed to pass.darius is not the first of the csm who has committed such a trivial transgression (if indeed he has committed any), and some of those councilors have posted in this very thread. you have provided no evidence, nor supplied the council with any compelling arguments that would lead any reasonable person to conclude that darius should be removed from the council.a vote in support of this motion is a vote for corruption, lawlessness, hypocrisy, and exemplifies an utter disdain for this council and everything it stands for."
"apologist white washing at its finest. the csm represents all the voices within eve, not just the ones who voted for them. his actions not only violate the trust placed in him by his fellow delegates but by ccp and the entire community as well.a vote against this motion is a vote for corruption, lawlessness, hypocrisy, and exemplifies an utter disdain for this council and everything it stands for."
"so you're saying that this is acceptable, and that we shouldn't consider repercussions for this or future transgressions?"
"so you're saying that this is acceptable, and that we shouldn't consider repercussions for this or future transgressions?"
"i support corruption, lawlessness, hypocrisy in this game."
"not following a legal document that ensures that ccp can be frank with the csm, which is absolutely vital to keep the csm relevant, isn't trivial.do you really think removing a member who is leaking confidential material to his friends, and is breaking legal contracts makes you corrupt, lawless, and most importantly, hypocritical?"
"i also feel violated by darius the third"
"look at dat, dreddits .... pain is weakness leaving the body"
"i assert that before _any_ decision is made, the accusers must bring forth evidence of wrong-doing.and in the event that evidence is supplied and to be found incontrovertible and beyond reasonable doubt then the council must make a decision on how to proceed.i would caution the following:this evidence _must_ be verifiable and non-falsifiable.this evidence _must_ demonstrate that darius committed acts that are specifically outlined and documented in the agreement he made.the evidence must exceed a threshold of reasonable doubt. this is not a kangaroo court, and i would pray that the citizens we have elected to guide us would not stand for burning someone at stake. until this point we have nothing but trite accusations and heresay nonsense that is evidence of nothing other than political bantering.now.... in the event that such evidence is supplied and verified and accepted as being beyond a reasonable doubt, i would then caution all of the members of the council that the path forward sets a president. one that will be followed by councils that follow you and by burning darius at the stake, you very well may likely be lighting a match to your own feet as well."
"the cases of breach of an nda are not at all a subject of debate between players, csm and ccp.thus any proposals in assembly hall with such a topic are pointless and mentally challenged.pain is weakness leaving the body"
"hd vid or it didn't happen."
"as said alraedy... nda stuff is handled by ccp and their legal department.... its none of our bloody business.short of your usual emo-rant-rage agianst csm.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"greetings to the csm and all interested pilots.i have been playing eve since 2008 and would really like some improvements done to the current tools provided for supply & demand market analysis, don't have anything against eve central market website but it is quite obsolete if you want to really want to dedicate your development to trading inside the game.1. market informationi guess this is the first thing i would like to raise as a concern.we are so posed to be living a futuristic in-game life experience based on the technology designed by ccp but market information transparency regarding what is being sold or demanded elsewhere your current region is very difficult to get and follow. as well as in eve central market one should be able to easily sort market info from anywhere in the game:a. pricesb. quantities supplied and demandedc. select timeframe for queryd. customized dashboard of indicators for watch list.e. ability to download to excel files/ numbers mac worksheets any information request.2. marketing toolsprovide a place to put advertisements, space cans and cargos with long texts are not fulfilling the need.im not asking to populate eve space of crowded communications, but we could eventually have a couple of systems were you can put your own station or advertisement to make people enter and buy only your stuff. moreover, being able to better communicate your offers and not just morse code messages in trading channels.3. financial servicesits quite a complex market but we are not able to have banks, this is really needed when you are focused in trading.i know that most players are mainly interested in pvp but there is at least a small community of professionals that really enjoy and have fun with the cycle of mining, manufacturing and selling. my case...in these cases, npcs financial services would be an interesting concept to develop and i do believe is quite simple.corps could also be able to set their own banks and communicate it to the eve community. not saying this should be easy to get. probably more difficult than to open a corp.4. corporation stock marketif a corp is doing very well but would like to take their economic growth beyond, why not enabling the possibility to corps and investors to interact in a digital stock market place?this will also bring improved market performance and funding.5. freelance sales representatives contractsif we do have contracts for people that are able to provide distribution services, why couldn't we offer products for resale and paying a commission without needing to sell the full items and then make the salesman bare all the risk. some enthusiastic sales people could power up items availability and market competition benefiting everyone.ok guys have other suggestions regarding the subject but not as important as these ones.could u provide feedback if this can be escalated to ccp or not?thanks and good luckroldanusblack anvil industries corporation"
"when i receive a message and read it on eve gate and it's from isk spammers, i should be able to flag that message as spam and delete it.ccp can then review these messages and take appropriate measures to alleviate the problem."
"same goes for anyone who mass spams without permission/authroization.it's bad enough tehy can spam local chat....================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"double post errrrrrr================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"i hate my name. i therefore would love the option to change it.i also agree on one time change and something stating it was changed in the players bio or whatever.not trying to hide anything, i'm a nobody. however it bothers me only having one name.i want a last name! or want to be able to change this crappy name for one of my other chars on this account.$10 - $20 - $30 i don't care i will pay it.i tried bringing myself to starting a new toon, but that lasted all of 1 day realizing how long it would be useless for."
"thanks for your comments.alerting the players will dramatically increase the amount of small scale pvp. the question you raise here is: will people who want to run fw plexes in alts that never pvp benefit from an alert telling the enemy where there alts are? i think it's pretty clear a notification system would severely decrease the effeciency of the alt method of plexing.people who enter plexes but never fight to hold them will constantly have their time wasted and rarely if ever be able to finish a plex. thus they won't be able to actually accompish much other than open plexes for the enemy.once the enemy comes and chases the stabbed alt off, the enemy can then run the plex on his own. if the stabbed pilot opens a plex in the next door system then the combat pilot can simply wait out the timer and as soon as it runs chase the stabbed alt out of the next plex he opened. the alt will just be acting like an alt for the enemy finding and opening plexes for them, yet not being able to finish any themselves.the idea that you run plexes with alts will no longer work nearly as well as it does now. now the alts have a certain advantage that you have to keep chasing after them in order to track them. people get tired of chasing alts. with a notification system you willno longer have to chase after them. plexing alts will no longer be able to play hide and seek. they can run but they can't hide. alts will mostly be wasting their own time and rarely able to finish a plex. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"who do you think will become disillusioned/tire first, the responding pvp'er or the plexing alt?what you say may well be how it is for a few weeks after such a change, but people will very quickly stop responding to reports of frigs since \"they always run\" -> frig plexing moves from being the norm to being 'why use anything else .. ever?'. essentially decoupling plexing from pvp entirely thus exacerbating the problem you are trying to solve.changes to fw need to be extensive and all-inclusive for it to have any impact on the behaviour we can observe today. plex reporting might be part of it but will not be what moves fw in the pvp direction (ex. rewards/carrots for 'staying the course' would have a significantly better effect).love your optimism, but we play to be entertained and hunting ****-fit frigs simply does not satisfy that need .. it is barely satisfied by hunting the mission bombers, but at least the payout from those can be quite high (best one yet was a 500m+ hound .. bling ftw!)."
"the alt will be disillusioned and tired first because he won't be able to capture plexes like he can now. the pvper will be happy because he can capture plexes and the attached rewards. plus he will get lots of fights with other pvp pilots. you are thinking of how things work now without the notification system and not fully appreciating how notifications will change alt hide and seek plexing. there will be no more hiding. like i said in my last post if the alt runs to the next system and opens a plex you can just finish the plex he already started. when your timer is done, chase him out of the new plex he opened and run that plex as well. the pvper and the alt both spent about 25 minutes in the game. the pvper captured 2 plexes the alt captured 0. there is no more need to \"chase\" anyone the smart militias will have plexing pilots spread out in different zones (player defined zones) throughout the fw regions. so lets say i am notified of a plex being run by an enemy in hadzeko. i chase someone out and run their plex. while i am runing that plex i get a message that the person i ran out jumped into ardar and is running a plex. i can just finish my timer and then chase them out of their new plex and run that as well.so i have 2 plexes captured and he has none. so let<U+FFFD>s say i get a message that he went all the way to tzvi and is running a plex there. do i chase him? not if the militia is being strategic about it. i would be on vent and let the militia that is running in that zone know this guy is a rabbit and so you can chase him out at the last minute and he won't fight.do you see this is a completely different type of warfare than anything eve has to offer? it involves people coordinating and spreading out and covering different zones instead of just blobbing up and chasing people. imo this is what eve needs most. a system of warfare that involves some other strategy besides getting in the largest blob you can and chasing things. assigning pilots to different zones and then having those pilots within those zones coordinating would be key. because of the sheer amount of combat, pilots would need to actually start thinking in terms of what ships/fittings make sense iskwise. it would be a major change for eve in that what is now an abandoned mechanism would become the funnest part of eve. it would be a huge draw for those who like small gang pvp.side note: ccp would have to figure out the timer mechanics. i<U+FFFD>m not exactly sure how they should do it. i would suggest that when you first open a plex 1 minute is added to the timer. so if i first open a minor plex i would have to orbit for 11 minutes. if some enemy came in a plex that i opened the timer would stop while we were both in range of the button. if i left then the timer would restart for him and he would have 10 minutes. if i came back after he ran 5 minutes of the plex and chased him out the timer would then restart at 10 minutes. it<U+FFFD>s only that original opening of a plex that adds that 1 minute. that way an alt running around and unwilling to pvp would definitely not be able to get anything done. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"while you are sitting on that timer he is on his .. you may run the timer you just \"won\" but by the time you arrive at his new site he is ready to move .. i have been playing the 'seconds left on timer' too damn long to buy into that illusion.and now you also want to reset timers every time it is taken over by the other side as well?your lack of understanding of the mental strain involved in \"serious\" plexing is shining through, you will never be able to sell that idea to any of the organized plexing crews. one of the major parts of being able to hold the line against superior numbers (read: blobbers), is that every minute spent on a timer has to be matched by opponent .. cannot begin to count the number of times where extra seconds/minutes acquired by running a timer you know the enemy will take over soon<U+FFFD> has been enough to gather the extra 2-3 hulls to beat them back.also, just what do you expect to give to the pvp pilot to encourage him to sit on his ass for 10-20 minutes at a time? whenever some major plexing push is being planned we spend hours upon hours convincing the combat centric population that it is in their interest to assist (pretty sure this goes for plexers in all militias). orbiting a button has never been fun, so unless you introduce some golden carrot (which will be abused to hell and back) there is just no way to make people twiddle their thumbs for the amount of time that we are talking when they could be bonking heads at their usual gates/stations.on timer mechanics: one of my former corp mates suggested that defensive plexes run themselves once started and only offensive plexes require someone on timer. puts the pressure on the attacking party who quite literally has to be there and thus expose themselves to response, effectively solves your problems in a much smoother fashion (provided spawn mechs. are not post-dt biased) without the use of plex-spam channels and what not.in short: the idea will massively favour whomever has the most people/alts available and will not improve on either fight frequency or quality. \"numbers > all\" paradigm has been tried and it has failed so miserably that even null is starting to ask for change.ps: this is the last bump you get"
"no he will not be on the timer as long as i will. he will have to travel to a new one and scan it out. i will know exactly where he is. plus he will have that extra minute added for starting a new timer. (you probably didn't read that at the end of my post) therefore i will be able to chase him out before he accomplishes anything.pvper 2, alt 0. i am not trying to sell this idea to the 80 or so people who do serious faction war plexing now, any more than i am trying to sell this to the people with the other 300,000 accounts, not to mention the millions of people who don't play eve because there are no mechanics to bring about small scale pvp. the current plexxing mechanics make it so people can capture lots of plexes without any pvp. see ank's post from 2008 if you doubt this. (and there were likely several more people doing plexing then, than now) so yes i no longer engage in the current plex mechanics because they are bad. as far as resetting the timer and how the timer works i am making some suggestions that i think ccp should consider. they are not part of the original proposal and i am not wed to them. if you think what i say is a bad idea, then say why. you might be right. but just claiming that those who do plexing now won't like it is not really helpfull or relevant. ccp should consider the plex timing mechanics when they redo plexxing. that is not to say they won't ultimately decide to stay with the same times they currently have but they should at least consider alternatives. i proposed the extra minute when a plex first starts to help prevent alts from running plexes. in other words you save a minute of time if you chase someone out of a plex instead of just opening one when no one is around. what do you think should happen if you chase an enemy out when he has say one minute left on the timer? make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"unlike now when the other militia doesn't even know you are running a plex so you end up sitting on your ass for 10-20 minutes the new system will notify the enemy so you will have to fight other players to capture the plex. the main reason people like ank were able to capture hundreds of plexes with no pvp was becasue the other militia didn't even know she was there. in fact it was in that thread where she posted she made the highest rank in amarr in under a week without a single pvp kill that someone proposed the idea that the militias should be notified. its not my idea at all but it is an obvious solution to the problem.again you are failing to realize that plexing now <U+FFFD> which often does involve orbiting a button because no one even knows your threre <U+FFFD> will no longer be the norm. once you attack that complex and your presence is announced to the entire enemy militia you will have more to do than orbit a button. moreover i am not saying these are the only things that should be done for fw. yes people should get some sort of gain for capturing plexes. that is important as well. that is more or less a seperate issue. i think all ideas should be considered. but won<U+FFFD>t this particular proposal just lead to alts starting a bunch of defensive timers and leaving? i don<U+FFFD>t see how it will yield any more pvp. having more numbers will always be an advantage all else being equal. we have to accept that. but this proposal does not help those with more numbers than the current system does. plus there are other things ccp can do to help sides that are severely outnumbered."
"ok i agree that the npc part is tricky. i think ccp can do away with them completely, but i agree your concerns are valid. i like the idea that the missiles would have increased explosion velocity. along the same lines consider these ideas.1) have an \"alarm beacon\" spawn say at 3minutes and 6 minutes for a minor and say 3 times for a medium 4 times for a major. f th alarm is not destroyed in 2 minutes the rats as described below will spawn. the minor alarm will tank 50 dps. the medium wil lank 150 dps. the major bc and down will tank 350 and the major open will tank 500. these are rough numbers. they are pretty low because not all fw pilots have top skills. moreover some pvp fits do not do allot of dps. for example a merlin might have 2 neuts insead of rockets launchers.2) make it so the all the rats have *lots* of target painters and missiles. *no other ewar* the target painters and missiles would mean that they can not be speed tanked by fast frigates.this would make it so pvpers could still kill the rats without having to fit a lame pve tank. yet noob ships and t1 frigates would not be able to tank the npcs and run the major sites.make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"hirana knows whats upcearen you need to read the last part of my post earlier, the \"nothing to do\" syndrome and the fact theres no incentive to hold occupancy. you seem to think that \"not knowing where the enemy is\" is the core issue behind the lack of \"small scale\" pvp in regards to fw. it's a really, really bad idea to have alerting mechanics in place and will just lead to blobbing, i already went into why its a bad idea. you don't seem to grasp the concept that the people who run alts aren't really after pvp. they're role players, they want systems and nothing more, they plex 16 hours a day without so much as a fight somedays. regarding your discussion between hirana and yourself about alts. here's an example why running with alts still will work under a notification system: alt begins running a major plex, you get the notification and begin heading that way to respond, meanwhile the alt has been running the timer for 10 minutes before the time you arrive, you force alt out, and have to spend 30 minutes to close the plex, meanwhile alt opens another major elsewhere and has to spend only 20 minutes closing it compared to the 30 you have to spend to close the one from before. you have the option to chase said alt (hardcore plexers will run with multiple alts as well as a main) who will have stabs fitted and warp away, so someone \"looking for pvp\" doesn't get any, under the current system or the one you're proposing. your other option is that you sit there and capture the plex they were running at first, theyll still get the other one, but at least you've removed a potential plex from threat of being captured, but then you've sat there, bored for thirty minutes, with no pew pew. it's a lose-lose for anyone looking after pew when it comes to alts.this is why there should be an incentive for having occupancy (a meaningful reward at the end of a long term push to capture a system), it doesn't neccesarily have to be monetary but there needs to be an incentive beyond a little line at the top left corner of the screen. players should say \"i want to capture that system\", right now its \"what the **** would i do that for?\". again i'll reiterate, often times when a system becomes a focus there isn't anything to fight for for hours at a time, the \"nothing to do syndrome\" kicks in. people want to attack/defend the system but they spend countless hours waiting, bored, waiting for a plex to spawn. these issues need addressing more than \"oh i don't want to use one of the 20 locator agents within 5 jumps of me, there should be an automatic system telling me where to blob someone\"."
"uh oh. i'm getting support from tears? well, i'm sure you guys will make it entertaining. you always do."
"+1(did they remove the vote for check box? cause i don't see it and the sticky still says to check it)"
"indeed! take the work away from the cheap hisec robotic labour and give it to the cheap null sec \"exuberantly mining for 18 hours a day\" labour."
"i decided to wait a few days, as it would help drive my point home.oxygen iso prices at time of this post: jita sell order 898.99iskit's been only 6 days and \"3000 per iso\" is no longer. although i've only seen it as high as 1200, but what do i know, i only exclusively trade ice product.so lets talk less about \"moer tears, omg quit my accounts goons scammed me\" and more about what the causes and effects are of our high iso prices.yes, i've read the reports on why goons did this. goons gunna goon.so, why have they been hovering around the 900 mark for the past few days?according to this:"
"that's an easy one. stockpiles are being released back into the market. in efforts to take advantage of the inflated prices, they're being released a little too quickly to maintain an excessively inflated value. as the stockpiles dwondle, prices will again begin to elevate.besides, you can't rule out option 2... the goons are allowing miners to buy the rights to mine during this event. depending on how many do this (and take advantage of the reduced competition) you'll also start seeing an increase in supply, although not at the initial level.so yeah... the whole \"remove ice from high\" concept is still moronic."
"you didn't actually look at the killboard, the goons have even killed blues, which has caused some unrest in the cfc.they are not allowing any mining. why don't you prove me wrong though, go out, pay a goon 500m and see if you can mine.as for the market being re-injected with stores of iso's, check the before daily traded volumes, check the daily volumes now."
"so you're saying that 0.0 spawning ice such as pristine white glaze at $175,171.01 is far more rich then white glaze $147,086.01? 350 iso's vs 300? lets talk about risk vs reward shall we?"
"scuse me? have you ever lived in 0.0?oh wait...you havn't have you.becuase if you had...you'd understand there's risk involved in transport of cargo via jump freighters...specially if the bridge goes down.you'd also know that ice locally mined for pos's that can consume that fuel are cheaper to do so locally with an outpost capable of refining.we all know your just a glorified troll so please... move along.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"actually i visit 0.0 often.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"visit is not live.many of my customers are 0.0 dwellers, i deliver there very obtain. i've never lost a jf, just lots of cynos.moving a jf with good skills doesnt cost very much in fuel. yes, there is a risk in moving jf's around, but as long as you have an alt for eyes that's not an issue.as for wormhole dwellers, i sell to them, but never deliver (obviously).they should not have ice, nor should they have as much ore as they have either.they have sleepers, which is the whole reason for whs anyway. i realize that some high-end mats are needed for t3 production, but currently their supply's are a lot more then their demand. currently ice is the only monthly import for whs, that and a very few whom's planets can not sustain pos fuels.furthermore, lets take a little look at ccp recurve dev blog.i would like to thank him for his hard work, as i know it must have taken a good deal of time. recurve, there are people who enjoy your work, please keep them coming! (maybe even get our q reports back?... )linked relationship between pi and ice prices (graph!).this blog was posted after this thread was created, and was one of the points i was trying to make.if ice goes up, pi goes down. while this is bad for pi initially, it will normalize after the market corrections."
"while i 'don't live\" in 0.0...neither do you according to the information your giving.regardless... your prespective is based on a small smattering of prespectives and statistics your practicually pulling out of thin air.removal of ice from high sec is a foolish notion.depletion i can deal with... but as its clearly been said alrady but the majority here...regardless of some trolls.... this is foolish and riddeled with \"tin foil.\"================ stop the evemail spam!"
"as a human playing in australia, i heartily support the concept of depleting the static ice belts. that means far more isk for me since i'll be able to mine the belts immediately after downtime while everyone else has nothing.on the other hand, moving ice belts to grav sites means that there is something worth mining in hisec grav sites, and all the ice won't be disappearing within an hour after downtime.depleting static belts is a silly idea. suitable perhaps as a stopgap if ccp already have the \"move all static belts to grav sites\" process well under way, but a foolish & shortsighted move otherwise."
"1) i never claimed to, you accused me of not knowing about the risk's involved in transportation, which i in fact do.2) and by thin air, you mean actual information from ccp.3) prove it. i've given supporting case as to why it would be good. or is logic too hard for you? eve does have a steep learning curve, so if you cant, then just keep quite please.keeping ice in highsec at all in my opinion is bad.no ice in empire. else there would still be a supply.currently there is nothing in empire that you have to import from 0.0. ice would solve that, as well as solve many other issues with market bubbles (tech, t2, etc)"
"we are calling darius a disgrace but not including vile rat and the mittani in this?"
"yes"
"******* snipe down the drain"
"i say we just kick out the whole csm and then mail every eve player a golden fortune cookie, those that open and find a coupon for a free pet badger get to be on the next csm.but honestly, why bother removing anybody? half the csm maneuvers to ahev the game shifted in them and theuir buddie's favor anyways, and thats certaintly not in the spirit of their position, and you seriosuly think no member besides darius might have released nda realted material to someone? even a trickle? cause my friends who go to jury can't shut up about it and they are told to quiet by a legal court... honestly i say we just start kicking people out on the sheer reason that they got themselves elected.im against this for these completely ridiculous reasons, but 90% im against this because i find the current csm in it's form is rather funny to watch."
"lol xd u so randum"
"i support this. inb4 lock."
"i have confidence in the csm, and progression is good."
"i support this.everyone that doesn't support this is just mad?"
"idgi mittani leaked a ton of info to the people closest to him, not sure why you're making such a big deal out of this guy doing it.if he goes, vile rat and mittani should go too.i mean if you're going all balls out about it, you have an ex goon working for ccp who's now pushing through whatever ideas and game changes that goons want.elections are soon enough anyway."
"darius iii is alleged to have \"leaked\" three lines of useless text from skype, while the mittani is developing an entire null sec empire's future strategy based on information he is privy to.which is the greater sin?trick question.the answer is, \"the only crime is getting caught\""
"there can be only one"
"the true story is that mittani and vile were embarrassed by darius because of the whole delve freeport troll so they came up with this csm leak bs to try get back at him."
"of course, it clearly has nothing to do with breaches, leaking for personal gain or anything of that sort.oh wait..."
"oh yeah well mara rinn is making hundreds of billions on an untraceable alt because she's getting out of game communications from a friend who is a dev at ccp.(i don't need proof to play this game, right?)"
"i would ask that ccp close and delete this thread if the matter is indeed for them to discuss and investigate.if ccp wishes for this nonsense to continue with the baseless accusations and character dispersions of mr. johnson, we can see on which side their bread truly is buttered. bottom line, it doesn't belong here and should be deleted.darius deserves to be compensated for the damage this has caused."
"hmm, or (as opposed to jagga's interpretation -- which is sound) are you implying that in conjunction with the establishment of a name changing system character transfers would be entitled to a free name change? if not, it would just be a circuitous means to name changing -- but without all the safety features -- as jagga wrote:...yeah, i guess it does kinda work for me either way too"
"i feel that you've encapsulated the views of a great many people with your post: the frustration, the dismal alternatives -- the fiscal desperation!also, why stop at last name? i think someone posted that you can now have middle names too!t-h-a-t i-s r-i-g-h-t h-e-r-e."
"yes. a million upvotes!i'd love to be able to change names."
"i agree that they need to adjust how many plexes are in play. there should be many more plexes in play throughout the day.as for the incentive to hold occupancy. i agree that there should be some increase in the rewards. but they shouldn't just spew isk at people and turn plexing into a new form of fw missions. frankly with the current mechanic where people plex in backwater systems and fight rats - adding isk to it will just take fw pvp a step backward. did you read that analogy to the lottery that i gave? what do you think about it?since you haven't explained *how* you think they should make system occupancy mean something i can't really comment more.as for your first paragraph it won't take 10 minutes to get to the alt. it will take about 1 minute. moreover, i don't think the timers should work like you describe.the alts in cheap frigates will fare worse if we are informed where they are. do you not at least agree to that?as for your claim that this will lead to blobbing it won't. ccp will need to make sure there are enough systems in play. so if the blob is up in one area a plexer can go plex somewhere else. the blob will need to split up if they want to be most efficient at plexing. blobbing will not be an effective way to run plexes if they are constantly popping up in all 8 regions of fw.make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"no doubt i agree with what you say. my second post in this thread was intended to address this. that is the new spawns of plexes shouldn't just happen after downtime or through shifting.but again there are other ways to solve this problem. they could make the system of how occupancy is taken more dynamic than it is now. systems could go in and out of being \"contested\" throughout the day. so there are several things ccp could do.in short i totally agree that this will need to be addressed. don't think that the op in this thread was intended as the only changes to fw plexxing. they are just improvements that would make plexing more pvp instead of pve.make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"want the modular space station thingers instead of the horrible bubble staffs we have now. please ccp? implement this stuff?"
"exhibit i is pretty bad ass and the pos should look like that in the beginning.although i think a force field should be added to the picture jsut because it's what we've been used to.death of this horse is a lie!"
"and while you are at it make them dockable and allow us to get out and walk around in them one day. don't make them as good starbases in terms of storage and whatnot of course."
"eve was going to have something like this except they were cosmos agents. you needed very high security to use them and they would hand out pirate kill missions/bounty missions so you could kill them in high/low sec with no threat to gate guns. this including podding to collect a higher reward & bounty.expand this to corp missions to hunt/kill other corps."
"however, your opinion is ill thought out and fails to fully consider the ripple effects such a poorly thought out move would have. as i'm sure you're aware, ice fuels the pos's (in their current configuration). you'll have all ice fuels spiking in prices as the supply drops dramatically, and there'll be a negligible increase in the amount of ice supplied from null sec. simply put, it'll become too expensive to maintain pos's anywhere except null. not only will a ton of research and industry screech to a halt in high sec, but wormholes will drastically suffer. as such, many corps in wormholes will fail, simply being inable to keep their pos fueled (and thus greatly reducing t3 research and production), and those that do manage to hang on will have no choice but to jack up t3 prices even more simply to break even. basically, t3 prices will go through the roof. researched items and blueprints will go throughthe roof. the ripples would pretty well cripple the economy to a devatating degree. and the kicker?people still won't go to null to mine ice. there's a reason they're not there as it is. you can't take the sand from one person's sandbox and expect them to go play in the one you tell them to. they'll simply look at their empty box and go home."
"can only agree to this if ice is put into worm holes. i do not currently live in one, though i did at one time.necessity is the plea for every infringement of human freedom. it is the argument of tyrants; it is the creed of slaves. - william pitt"
"ingvar angst,i like you sir, that was well thought out, and you stated a very good case.i think that we just see different outcomes, but see the same trickles.i feel that low sec should maintain ice how it currently is. it is vastly more accessible to empire corps then 0.0. also, npc 0.0 should also maintain ice.my expected outcome is that corporations will seek to overcome the current drawbacks of low and npc null in order to \"strike it rich\" so to speak.i remember a time, where rookie's wanted to mine in lowsec, because they thought they would be making more isk in an environment that is harsher then empire. i'd like to ask someone in an active corp that has new members whom mine, do they bug you for a lowsec mining op?moving ice out of highsec may help to eject lowsec with a larger population. clearly the miners would need pvp support, and if ice prices were high-enough it would warrant the isk/hour lost having pvp'ers escort instead of simply more miners.or, the even larger offset would be that the corp could afford to have a high-sec pos where previously they could not. then they could make a passive income from research/t2 invention, or whatever they'd like to use that pos for.pirates would be happy, as all of a sudden there are more people in lowsec, and they would have to decide if it was worth it to try to attack a well defended fleet, or they may need to grab more friends to help.this could inspire nice battles over resources, and a greater sense of respect of corpmates who specialize in certain fields (miners, pvpers) as each relies on the other, rather then two distinct groups.you are absolutely right , research, and invention would increase in price. blueprint copies would increase as well. however, they would not increase as much as we expect them to. believe it or not, there are a lot of high-sec research lines. yes, there is a wait, but the supply exists. also, npc null has lines free all over, even copy slots. greater risk, for quicker time using them.the corps who took the time for a corp lowsec / npc mining op, would have already invested risk in the mining op itself, as to mitigate the risk in doing research elsewhere, or having to wait a long time.t3 would be a very interesting relation. you and i agree, spending more isk on pos ice fuels, would raise t3 prices? well, perhaps we can both agree that those costs will be passed on to those who buy t3?meaning you spend more isk, but make more as well.(side note:if you live in alaska, usa, you know what i mean. you may get paid $10 / hour to work at tacobell, far over federal minimum wadge, but it costs $8.00 for a meal there. in the washington, you make $7.25 per hour, but it only costs $5.80 for the same meal. both cost 80% of your hourly wadge. the same floating effect can be used to show decade prices. where our father paid $100 to fix his broken car back in 1971, where now we paid $300 for the same type of repair. however, it equated to 2 weeks of our father's paycheck, and it still equates to 2 weeks ouf our paycheck at a comparable job)another probable potability, as t3 goes up, more corps will do \"day trips\" into whs, increasing supply, helping to elevate the gap between demand.where i think the truly helpful effects come into play would be moon mining towers, and jump bridge networks. both of these mainly take place in null sec.if the fuel prices increase, then so does the pos's moon goo output, as it will be passed on to the customer (the buyer). currently, there are many complex reactions (mainly the base 4, crystalline carbonide, fernite carbide, titanium carbide, tungsten carbide) that are already low-priced. with pos fuel declining, no one will want to take the initial loss (before the market adjusts, they will spend more on pos fuel then receive on c-reaction output). the supply of these c-reactions will decrease, causing the bottlenecks such as tech, and r64's to drop because they will not have the low-end c-reactions to react with. eventually these will all equalize out to a closer average between the two current prices.if the high-ends and the low ends are equalized, then t2 mat prices will be quite similar to their current prices.0.0 alliance logistics:currently, moon goo is how most alliances foot the bill.lower returns on this passive income will inspire a need for them to cut their own ice to supply their jump bridge network, as well as fuel their pos's and super fleets.same concept as the smaller corp scenario defined before, but on a larger scale, more pvp, more hot hot sweaty carebear love, both parties feel needed filling a role. more people getting immersed in a game due to bonding.=win + win +...+n-win'th.:)"
"true, we're definitely seeing different outcomes. for example... will more people go into low to mine ice? i suspect it'll be far less than you'd expect. why do you think hulkageddon brought about so many tears? there's a lot of people that play the game at a low level. they prefer a more peaceful environment... it's their nature, and they're not wrong for wanting that... it's simply who they are. as a result, it would only take one or two packs of roaming narwhals popping their precious hulks for them to give up completely on the idea of mining outside of high sec. they'd either go back to mining rocks, or simply move on to a game that is more encompassing of their preferred style of play. yes, eve isn't supposed to be perfectly safe, but there's a reason many people seek as much safety as they can; it's their nature. so this nature alone will result in a drastic drop in supply and a correlating increases on anything and everything that requires pos fuels.with t3 production... i like the comparison to taco bell in alaska and washington. however, the major difference i see is this... you'd be making people that live in washington have to buy tacos at alaska prices. your example has the \"industry\" occuring in both places... tacos made and sold in ak vs those made and sold in wa. t3s are only supplied from wormholes, period. everything that goes into a t3 is obtained through wormholes ( hence the need for abc in all holes). it's intended to be primarily self-sufficient, except for one thing... that painful need to import ice fuels. (well, two things, but don't get me started on not being able to assemble and refit t3's in a hole...) as a result, if t3 prices go up due to the increase in cost to make in holes, that price affects everyone from alaska to washington to tibet, and it will do so painfully. now... you may think that's fine, everyone has a chance to buy them at the increased prices, but it's actually quite imbalanced. null would have the greatest advantage at being able to afford t3s next to only the remaining wormhole corps themselves that have been able to survive the spike in prices and dwindling supply of fuel. null would control the isk. even more dangerous... you see what the goons are doing with their push to control all of the major supplies of t2 industry in null? imagine null run by one power bloc that decides they think wormhole corps have it too good, so they simply turn off the fuel spigots going into empire. what happens? wormholes are strangled to death with no defense at all being available to them. they could crush wormhole space without having to undock. too much power, too much ability to control areas of the game that should be outside their sphere of influence. wormholes are more \"null\" than null keep in mind, as all holes are -1.0 space. as such, they have as much if not more rights to be able to control their own destinies.as far as this benefitting null more... you may see that as a benefit, but as someone that doesn't live in empire null i see that as more of a problem. again, it's not going to increase the population of null much at all. people with no interest now to live there won't magically develop an interest and move there. if they can't keep playing in a way they prefer, they'll leave. so who benefits? the pre-existing mega-alliances almost exclusively. any small alliances/corps in null that currently are in or near ice systems will get steam-rolled at a power grab takes place to control the supply of ice fuels... this is inevitable. hell, look at the current distribution of moons and who controls what and you'll see that. the small even in null will suffer, the huge will become larger and too much power will shift to those that don't need it."
"remove rats from nullsec. this will force people there to rat in highsec."
"you cannot \"escort\" mining barges. they are soft targets and there is no practical means to intercept attackers before they blow up the barge/exhumer.if it were possible to deploy warp bubbles in lowsec belts, it might be possible to escort barges. in the meantime they are a soft target that can be destroyed in a couple of salvos. even concord can't stop an apocalypse suicide ganking in hisec."
"simulated pvp from console in captain<U+FFFD>s quarters, now we have this living space outside of the ship. add a game consol so we can play simulated eve pvp in our quarters. suggestion is to add simulated pvp within the game, that is have a game playable within your quarters where you can participate in simulated battles with ships you can fly against other players (or nominated npcs). thus you can learn if the skill/fits you have are adequate to battle other players. way i see this being added is:1. you have a display just like now but you can buy any item you can fly or equip for no cost. (you make no isk also ) just need some id system to indicate you are in a simulated eve station. all normal rules for eve apply but no cost for simulated parts / ships2. you have a number of systems you can form up in with normal concord rules for sec 1.0 system. this system jumps to a null sec for pvp. (recommend one for non-capitals, one all ships. possibly limit capital ships available to one or two a day per player.)3. to get to this pvp station is by a simulated jump clone that has no cool down. doing this protects real eve [reve] implants and death function is not affected. add auto medical death clone skill protect to again get around reve death functions. this clone will have no implants but as they will have no cost in this pvp game in eve you can try different setups. 4. the null sec system people can practice their setups for gate camping etc<U+FFFD> find out if your bs with 8sb can take down those bubbles before sucking on vacuum. 5. players can practice tactics with others in same corp setting red/blue teams or even inter-alliance pvp with no loss. you will be able to find out who has the best skill/setup with risking that 4-5b isk t3 setup with all officer mods. if you get party crashers during your training its all the better.6. as we now have a new currency system in the game, give it some function beside looks *smiles* add the ability for a small cost to modify your skills so you can fly/equip normally unavailable stuff in this simulation of eve pvp while resting in your quarters drinking a cold drink.to all you low sec plays just think of it this way, the care bears in empire can practice some pvp first. so you may get more customers for the now braver empire players. i know pvp is not even i just like to be in the 20 ship fleet finding the 5 ship fleet."
"people will shout this down. don't forget, they don't actually want highsec carebears (95% of playerbase) to know how to pvp."
"groaned a bit right when i read this. let's get this over with... pvp without risk of any sort is a no-go for a good many people (as you'll soon find out). it's a principle thing. more than that... if people could pvp in station against other players at no cost and no risk, what reason would they have to actually undock and find \"real pvp?\"or you could... you know... actually practice with your corp against your corp. oh wait... you want to use officer mods? why not use them anyways? oh? you don't want to risk losing them? them's the breaks. there is a reason they are rare and expensive.so basically pay rl cash to give yourself skills in a simulator that many people are going to be running because they don't want to risk themselves in actual combat.i don't know where to begin with this one. no... the actual problem with so many \"carebears\" is that they find the idea of risking their ship abhorrent.what your idea does is give \"carebears\" a \"sub-world\" where they can say that they have \"pvped\" without having actually risked anything.honestly... if you want to try some stuff out, get your corp to sign up to the test server. not only can you \"test stuff\" but you'll also be helping devs find bugs (which i hear they need people to do)."
"there's this thing called sisi, you should look into it."
"no, because i consider one of the fundamental principles in the game is that a loss has a meaning, i.e. it hurts.(although ccp seems to forget that, given how easy to make money and obtain resources has become in the last few years).pain is weakness leaving the body"
"stupid idea is stupid.now that i've gotten that out of my system...getting paid to run a \"fake pvp\" scenario will let the bears get to avoid shedding tears, and then they claim they pvped. so no.good idea:allow for an in-game recording setup, that allows you to watch the playback on your nice in-quarters displays. this will give fcs the opportunity to re-watch a fleet engagement, and established where things went right/wrong, and thus formulate after action reports to tweak their fleet standard operation procedures, tactics and techniques. i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"just what eve needs: more micromanagement and logistical nightmaresmost definitely not supported."
"yes, let's go with mob rule and throw darius because we're convinced he did a bad thing. don't wait for proof. don't wait to verify these actions violated nda, just give him the boot. and nevermind ccp's job enforcing csm rules. let's just cast a summary vote to determine guilt.let's elect op to replace him, he's clearly a great candidate."
"and just remember, the buttered side is always the one that hits the floor. so, let's just get rid of this crap before it creates more stupid ****.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"nope."
"i'd ask for evidence, but meh it's nothing new in the world of the csm"
"1.0"
"yo dawg, i heard you like eve, so we put eve in your eve so you can pvp while you shipspin."
"this idea is so pointless that it actually hurts."
"how about you access sisi from your cq!yo dog, we heard you liked eve, so we put eve in your eve so you could..."
"i'm against the ideal of \"virtual pvp\". sisi is an adequate testbed for practicing pvp.however, i wouldn't object to a \"simulator\" that would let you pit saved fittings against other saved fittings using the player's skills. the idea would be to test the tank on one ship against the alpha/dps of another and have minimal controls for each ship in the virtual environment.let's say the ships spawn a set distance apart (possibly determined by the player) and stationary. you can click modules for each and set each one to orbit or approach how you want to. maybe put in one or two celestials they can be aligned to, but i wouldn't give them the ability to fly free. you click \"go\" and they auto-target each other while executing any movement or module activation commands. (edit: to be clear, you'd be able to continue giving commands after starting the simulation)in this way, a player wouldn't be able to get anything resembling real pvp without the risk, but they would be able to test various fits and see their speeds, abilities, damage, and tank in a limited and controlled environment. it's eft warrioring with more shiny.personally i don't care to see ccp waste effort on such a feature. but if they did anything like it, this is how i'd want to see it work: single-player, limited, and clinical. it should never be a substitute for undocking."
"this. a replay system that would allow you to record a battle and then replay it and even adjust camera angles would be awesome and create some amazing youtube videos. there have been great results from valve doing this with their source engine."
"not supported. it's hard enough to get logi pilots for an op can you imagine trying to find tanker pilots."
"quoting grath tears of goons controlling his game.i'm opposed to this proposal.having darius in office just perpetuates this drama. i will be backing manny and vlade randal for the next ballet. dual pane idea: click!"
"first off, the evidence we have is shaky.secondly, ccp deals with nda violations pretty severely - and quickly.third, it is not our position to remove darius iii as a csm member - it is ccp's.and finally... if a violation is found, it absolutely tarnishes the legitimacy of the whole csm to keep darius iii on board.the bs about mittani and vile rat leaking info is heresay, rumor, and completely without evidence. this leak by darius iii has shaky evidence, but its evidence nonetheless."
"then why has it not been presented in this thread?"
"low sec love so far has gotten crud.oo level 5 missions, that are bugged. there are still missions to date that can't be completed. the target that needs to be destroyed takes 0 damage. fw currently is just a place for people with not the load of free time to deal with 0.0 or just lack experience.its current status is just really a red vs blue. system control is almost meaningless. o if you get all the systems you get a medal that anyone can get by just joining before the medal procs. so what we currently have in low sec is currently buggy or it not full content. adding some content and fixing current content in the game would be great."
"to fix lowsec improve fw.... the bigger fw the more lowsec will be used.also, lvl 5s were better in highsec.. now its to dangerous for most people to do them, sure they should be easier in lowsec and give more, but why make stuff no one can do without such huge risk."
"greetings.please, add 'stack all' to the assets window.longer story:some time ago my alliance lost a system or two. as i was rather busy that time, i did not had time to move my assets. i played only seldomly for a few months - until now. when i had time to liquify those assets i traveled to the region with intention of setting up some sell orders remotely.so i repackaged everything... and found out that instead of having 3000 liquid ozone, i had ten stacks of 300 units. same applied to modules, boosters... even spiced wine bottles were all in separate stacks. i tried entering the number manually while setting up the order (i.e. changing volume from 300 to 3000) but to no avail.i would need several hundred of sell orders...at the end, the enemy was kind enough to accept a public courier contract from the 0.0 to 4-4, while buying the big thingies like ships, but i would like to see the improvement, small yet useful, nevertheless.thank you."
"it would be a pretty nice wis feature if you could access sisi directly from within it and have an arena style function that way."
"also, consider the following, being able to get saved recording from another pilot that was involved in the same battle, and put it up on the other screen, giving you the ability to look at a battle from three angles at once, and thus give you a slight bit of clarity into what could have gone right/wrong with an engagement from the standpoint of more than one pilot. this would make for some pretty crazy youtube videos, but it could also be utilized in a \"clinical\" fashion to critique an incident more effectively and allow for future pvp training or actual pvp engagements to be tailored to include contingencies based on prior events.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"horrible idea, 1) this would just generate massive upperhand to defending party owning stations nearby2) i guess, everybody would just use \"slow warp\" until you really need to use fuel (atleast near to objective area)3) hauling stuf (even in empire) would be a real pain (docking every now and then takes time)4) capital ships.....5) people would hunt for the fuel hauler only, leaving rest of the fleet middle of nowhere for lulz6) rvb is for fun easygoing small ship stuff, join :)7) manymanymany more reasonsbc/bs arent that expensive anyway + fight isnt over in 15 secs"
"i like the idea of fuel, but not as a restrictive measure. ships use fuel so i would be more of a fuel bay and a industrial item that could be harvested. fuel would be cheap and abundant. small isk sink."
"i second this"
"i want to know what did he leak"
"level 5s are still done. they are done in carriers and some people get a small command gangs and take them out. they are not done very often because missions just can't be done as they are physically impossible to complete.in terms of making fw bigger. would just be bigger blobs. that is something ccp is trying to get away from but have been unable to create."
"made this thread back in april as my take on what would make low-sec worth inhabiting for people from all walks of life. problem is that the \"pirates\" who currently reside there are generally not interested in competition on even terms and carebears who we want to move there will always lean towards safer space like high-sec or the deep blue seas of null. makes it a rather hard nut to crack."
"low sec gets better when there is more to fight over. null sec still needs to be a much more profitable place, but as a low sec lubber i support any improvements to it so this gets a \"like\" from me. i used to be optimistic that wis's could be utilized by having some unique npc stations scattered about low sec to encourage people to live there and fight over dominance on a small scale, especially pirate locals. however, that still semms like any chance of that happening is a long, long ways away."
"boosters would need to be changed. they are not great for small ship combat. some bses can make use of them but the setups for that are solo pvp. as for your idea on claiming a system, low sec is still empire space. just a battle zone between factions. so conflicts with eve lore. ccp does not really like to change their lore too much. it is not a problem with adding to it. the fact remains the empire factions still own these systems. they are just less secure.protection contracts would really not be worth while due to abuse. hey i may go out and sing one of those and kill off the entire fleet that i was \"guarding\" thus the contact would be around fleet isk value and if ships were lost its on you. thus wont be worth it.\"- a valid claim transfers authorizations of all developments (pos) in said system has to be approved by claimant by way of contracts (replaces charters) .. since pirates are honourable folk a breach of contract voids the claim (long 'cool down'**) or pos is treated as if it ran out of fuel/charters.should pos already be active in a system, the owners get one month to come to terms with claimant or above off-lining applies.\"you can do that right now. called taking control of a corp with an anchored pos.over all i think the idea of improving low sec is a good one. just how you went about it would not be the best way. i do think some of my ideas are a little off. it is just more of getting ccp to buff up low sec"
"aye, getting through to the pebble sized squishy bit inside their thick skulls does seem to be a primary hurdle for all the lobbies .. if we are lucky then they take a liking to the concept of iteration and put some permanent staff on it."
"ok...i know this has been brought up before. it needs to be brought up again.this especially applies to wh space but is relevant to anybody who scans in eve. once a site is created its signature id should not change after downtime. it is rather irritating to have to scan down the same sites after downtime again and again. it is really that simple. i am not sure why this hasn't been done already. i can't imagine it is that hard for the server to remember the name of a signature id of a site or object in space.this is just one of those little things (thousand papercuts) that should be changed."
"this is on my personal list of annoying things (the \"thousand asspains\") and i've reminded some people about it."
"if it is part of the \"thousand papercuts\" list then that will make me happy."
"i support this as well. the only thing i could see affecting a signature is if the site was cleared out completely (including looted and salvaged) and thus would create reason for a new site to spawn elsewhere.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"shameless bump for much needed change."
"+1agreed current pos stations are ugly, and very difficult to manage.as a wh pilot that also lives in a wh i need to point out as well thatthe logistics needed to keep a pos alive are horrible.unless you are lucky to live in some c4 which has all the reso"
"+1make all that happen^^"
"slow year"
"1 depends2 cosmetic only3 none of the above4 no5 yes6 no7 no8 no9 no10 no11 no12 depends13 yes14 yes15 no7 - have purchased them in game to pay sub before, have not purchased them out of game for sale in-game14 - curious question ;)necessity is the plea for every infringement of human freedom it is the argument of tyrants; it is the creed of slaves - william pitt"
"i think its a good idea so long as you don't gain anything from it and don't lose anything either. you could basically use it as \"practice\" or a testing ground for new fits. most people do this already by logging onto sisi. i see no difference in putting it into tranquility as a simulation in cq.another thing to consider is, giving the cearbears a means to get a taste of pvp without the fear of losing anything might give them an incentive to actually go out and pvp sometime or move to 0.0 once they are more confident in their skills."
"hint: if the isk goes to another player, it's not an isk sink."
"if you're looking for a tiny isk sink, i've seen that our wallet has a catagory for gate fees. we could just start charging people to jump from system to system. or docking fees for npc stations.but trying to micromanage fuel would only make the entire game lame.imagine a spy behind enemy lines, cloaked up watching fleet movements. and then his tank runs empty, and he's left stranded.or imagine that fleet engaging another, only to realize that not everyone topped off before leaving and suddenly ships have to fall back and gas up.heck, you could run dry in the middle of a mission, and get picked off by the rats you were sent to kill. or have your barge/exhumer floating adrift like the asteroids you were mining only moments ago.point being, fuel tanks would only further complicate an already overly complicated game.it wouldn't make any aspect of the game \"more fun\", and isn't that what games are really about?"
"what would be the best way to fix it would not be the best way.people have grown to love hs high incomes. i would have all 4 lvl agents in low sec/0.0 and remove the good incursions from hs (could probably leave them as is they would be over crowded to stop blitzing.)leaving hs with level 3s and incursions. isk scales would be proper again. hs being the lowest income, hs being second highest, and 0.0 being the best. missions would slow down as people would need to fly safer ships and so on and so forth.this is no longer an option due to the fact so many people love their hs missions and would make a lot of people rage quit. ccp does not want that to happen. they are currently feeding to the masses. as hs and 0.0 is the highest populated sections thus get the most attention. like whs are still 0.0 minus the major politics. issue there is cannon with eve. low sec is still empire space. empire space is controlled by the major factions. that is why i was saying put the pirate agents in space. as they would not be allowed within the stations. so really if a major empire lost its station they would want it back and if an empire wanted it back it would be taken back fast with the largest freaking cap fleet ever known to eve thus no player control."
"what it really comes down to is missions in high sec killed low sec and for years plagued 0.0 as you could make more isk per hour in high sec and safer than 0.0. just recently they made 0.0 near the best profit in the game. still in terms of risk vs isk per hour. high sec missions are the best way to do it right now. what really needs to happen is ccp just needs to remove missions from hs or at least level 4 agents from hs."
"i want this"
"supported!"
"as long as it's not quick enough to make it impossible for me to see where my target has warped to."
"the warp effect is quite broken as it is right now. so it would be nice to have a new effect.seeing as how 90% of the time i don't even see the effect and the camera only shakes when i exit warp for a little bit."
"alt scouts dont' really thin blobs out very much. if ccp has enough plexes spawning throughout the 8 regions of fw trhoughout the day it will be easy to spread the other side out. i gave an explanation of how this woudl work in resposne to bad messanger. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"well it's wormhole (lost) space and it's impossible to go through a wormhole and guess what system you're in just because the sun(s) are in a similar position."
"edited now that i've thought this and some comments below through some more:with the great news about the infamous logoffski maneuver becoming a thing of the past, i'd like to propose a sister change to how things behave when a ship self-destructs while it has aggression. using the same aggression checks that can be used to determine whether a ship should be able to disappear on logoff, it should be possible to prevent someone from denying their enemies a kill they earned. when a ship is set to self-destruct, the capacitor is drained, its modules are all offlined and its resistances are set to 0. this creates a tangible down-side to setting self-destruct while being attacked. if the ship successfully self-destructs, its drop rate is reduced by 50%, meaning modules and cargo would have a 25% chance of surviving. so there's still an advantage to doing it if you can pull it off. a killmail will always be generated, with the self-destructing ship inflicting damage to itself as needed to finish it off. option: insurance payments could be reduced or removed entirely for self-destructing. this might be limited to doing so while there is an aggression timer on the ship."
"aren't killmails already granted if a ship takes a certain level of damage before it's self-destructed/abandoned?"
"i've seen ships self-destruct well into structure and not generate a killmail."
"in my mind, self destructing a ship should destroy all mods, drones, and cargo a ship has (essentially denying the spoils of war to the victors), while still generating a killmail. in reality, its just a meta-gaming tactic that people use to spite their enemies. because of this mechanic, i've missed out on a quite a few capital killmails... (including a rorqual and archon this weekend), so i feel your pain... however, i'd prefer ccp focus on other game tweaks."
"do you really expect new and rookie players will go to low sec to be blown up just for the \"lulz\" at the gate ? tell me honestly would you help newcomers to learn the ropes ? i am sure you wouldn't as you only want kills without any risk.you have scared almost everybody away and now wondering why nobody is going there.i don't suffer from insanity.. i enjoy it !"
"do you even think? rookie pilots don't. do lvov 4 and it takes them a few months to fly a bs right. they would be left with lvl 1,2,3 and that is plenty of income at that amount of experience in the game vs the risk.like said before too many current players would rage and ccp is after growing the games pop so the mission thing would be last on their list. even though it would be the best solution to the 00 income issue and low sec as he there is little to no risk and u can make 60m a hour atm counting loot and salvage ontop of bounty.so really your response is a troll or idiot's idea because lvl 4 would no longer be rookie and by the time they can do a lvl 4 in the current game they would be paying anyway. so they would have to learn the ropes. before doing low sec missions.editthis would also force people to use rookies as scouts to help out with lvl 4s so you don't loose your bs. that infraction would teach them a lot about the game giving them pvo experience as missions would be done in groups for safety and intelligence of friendly mission corps would go up. unless you elaborate i don't see a down fall besides some pissed vets that can't do their lvl in such a safe environment"
"to be honest just having a consistently working warp effect would be enough for me."
"i couldn't stand by and let this thread die so this is the continuation of the \"thousand papercuts\" project created by akita t on the old forums. akita t did an excellent job of organizing the eve community in creating this list of minor annoyances involved in everyday eve game-play. original message below:"
"when my ship goes into warp, it should be an impressive sight especially when we are moving many times the speed of light. that would be one heck of a light show. i can warp through solid objects in a very unimpressive, unrealistic manner. that includes accelerating through a station (doesn't that equal explosion?) this is one of the first things a non-subscribing friend will mention when i show them the game. missile bays need the same attention given to turrets. currently, all missiles fly out of the center of a ship, and ram into the center of another ship resulting in an unrealistic explosion. bouncing off of things in space is not harmless (never been there for real, but just a guess), and would result in damage one way or another. missed shots from guns and missiles still visually hit their target. poor shots still hit dead center. maybe some visual misses and grazes would be sweet effects. grouped missile launchers fire in one giant blob. cluster pattern, or missiles flying from multiple tubes would look much better. turrets and missiles only hit one focused point on the ship, and there's no big gratifying explosion when it happens. ships should visually take damage. whether it's an attack to shields or armor it should look like the ship is being damaged, parts flying off, etc."
"i've got another one. some ships, especially cap ships, require skills that are also required by their prereqs. it would be nice if redundant skill requirements could be removed. examples:acapital industrial ships requires advanced spaceship command 5 and capital ships 2 (which requires asc 5 also)carriers and dreads require capital ships 1 and racial carrier/dread (which requires cap ships 1/3)it's not a huge thing, but it's a little pet peve of mine that i'd like to see fixed."
"+1. especially annoying for wh pilots and explorers in general because the ids also change whenever the server derps, which can be frustratingly common after an expansion/patch."
"i guess what i don't understand is if eve can remember a ship name and its last location when it logged out then why can't it do the same for a site? unless ccp is deliberately making the sites change id's so that we have to rescan them down every day even though they don't change locations or anything. if this is the case then it is just annoying...it does not contribute anything to the gameplay except maybe some scanning practice for new pilots. other than that its just an irritating nuisance. please change/fix it ccp."
"as someone who has played this game for a long time, i have finally run out of clones. i have infomorph psychology 5 all clones used with crystals, snakes, slaves, +5's +4's +3's and i need more.i live in 0.0 mostly but have some toys and good clones spread out in lowsec if i want to get away from the sov war and go kill some stuff for a few days with some fiends. however now that i only have one 'cheap' clone i cannot really go to other 0.0's as all my clones apart form my +3's are worth 500 mill+.what i would like to propose is an \"advanced infomorph psychology\" skill, allowing another clone per skill level.i cannot think of anything game breaking this would cause, just give us people with lots of good clones the opportunity to go pew pew else where without having to my cheap clone 30-40 s to do it."
"this is the whole reason that this idea is made of fail. because to a carebear, the idea of pvp, or losing a ship is completely reprehensible. hence the reason they are carebears. they don't want to get a taste of pvp. they don't want to look at pvp. they don't want to hear about pvp. and the sad part is, they think that this game solely revolves around them.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"that alone hardly makes it a fail idea. i see plenty of pro's to this idea...biggest of all being able to test fits in a safe simulated environment other than sisi before using it in pvp."
"that's actually the problem. because it's \"safe\" it will eventually come to replace \"casual pvp.\" why is this? well... why would you go out and try to find pvp and risk your actual ship when you can do the same thing in a simulation?"
"why go out and risk your ship when you can just log onto sisi and do the same thing there with no risk instead? see? same damned thing and just about everybody with a brain already does this."
"only if it carries the risk of being easier to kill during the destruction timer, perhaps with a better drop rate if it doesn't complete the self destruct. i'm mostly bringing this up now as the logoffski nerf is going to increase the use of self-destruct (i think) for the sole purpose of spiting enemies and that's something that needs to be removed. if nothing else, it is completely unrealistic: \"we're being attacked! quick! blow up the ship before they do!\"also, i forgot to include the idea of denying insurance payouts for self-destructed ships. again, it's sort of a mix-and-match affair, not every idea is needed to make this better."
"u mad bro?not supported, and km should be removed."
"simple solutionremove kill mails.no killmailsno zomg he denied me killmail ban him or fix ithe died, you can loot his ship that is what matters, not the \"such and such killed such and such in a blob\""
"1.0"
"erm no.i guessing prople do this to you all the time. if u want to get the km from a ship that is self destructing then bring more firepower.dont wine about it needing a fix on the forums.fyi killmails are for epeen only, and if you constantly need to prove that you have one that you probably wanna try a different mmothe loot is where its at bronot supopted"
"i'd go for the removal of killmails as well. i think we can agree that's very unlikely, given the broad use of killboards.as the game is right now, killmails are part of how in-game success is determined. so long as they are available as something people can track, they should be accurate."
"ccp there are too many corporations lead by newbs taking other newbs into the typical mission/mining grind of death. i can tell you when i was a newb i joined a newb corp because they were newb like me. set a limit to must be 3 months or older chars for corp ceation and remove the pointless corp/alliance skills you for some strange reason still have. raise the average enjoyment levels for new pilots = customer satisfaction = profit = winnig."
"i'm not sure that taking freedom away from players is the answer. a better solution may be to provide more opportunities for established corporations to recruit. right now the 3 main tools are the recruitment channel, station ads, and the eve corp recruitment forum. how many new players look at these sources of info in their first few days/weeks? does the npe point them in this direction or simply encourage them to find a corp? is there a way to educate new players on how to find decent corporations, or is this a sink-or-swim process that new players are expected to go through, to learn on their own?"
"some times ned to take freedoma away abit to make tings beter. i tink even a year wuld be good start to creat a corp. some where was writen that 7 month for eve player is critical age, then he disides realy if he wil play or not. that minimum need to be after that age, to not ruin fun for ader ppl, if ceo disides quit eve."
"i don't see how this would be taking a freedom away from players. they can still join a corp right away. all this does is change the current reqs in game for corp creation that will have a positive impact on the overall player experince."
"honestly i don't think that this is a good idea at all. because for a player to learn how to be a good ceo, they're going to have to fall flat on their *** at least once. so if they have the epic fail corp to end all epic fail corps in the beginning, and they learn from their mistakes, it will in the long-run show them how to be better at what it is they do.experience is the best teacher. let the noobs have their corps.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"want more people to join? easy, 0% tax and free ship replacement, mods, benefits, etc, funded by you. that's the people you're competing with. you get what you give."
"name one that does this"
"your argument good but your missing the point of the customer satisfaction of the game. do you think he will be satisfied by running his face into the floor then a greifer curb stomp him? i doubt it and i doubt it would have any positive impact on the sub rate. remember these new guys got that cliff of a learning curve to climb. what's wrong with giving them a little safty line."
"you just invalidated your own point. griefers are going to come up and \"curb stomp\" noobs anyway. why? it's part of what they do. that's why they're griefers.now as far as customer satisfaction goes, i think a customer would be less satisfied with not being able to do something, not because they don't have the skills, but because they haven't been around long enough. so basically, your line of thinking: \"take freedom from the customer, and they will be more satisfied.\"this is new eden mate, there are no guarantees of safety anywhere you go. just increased levels of safety, but no absolute safety (unless you just don't undock). and the quicker players learn that, the less qqing there will be about stupid **** that happened because someone put themself in a situation to be a victim, or because some griefing ***hole got bored and wanted to ruin someone's day.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"all these points are invalid. the only way to make my idea into a theory is by having the numbers which i cannot supply.basicly will limiting corp creation to 3 months increase the average # of pilots in a corp and will that # have a direct effect on customer satisfaction. #s will defeat all bias on this subject.though if you are so upset about being free from ccp tyrants herding noobs vial limits instead of features such as ingame recruitment adds. i would like to hear your ideas."
"i'm rather glad my friends and i were able to form a noob corp and do things our own way. we learned a lot, often the hard way.if anything, up the skill requirements on corp management so that it's a more significant investment. if it took a month to train up to be qualified to be a ceo, most people would rather train for something more useful in the short term."
"can you think of a better way to teach someone how eve works?"
"the ones where your members are going to."
"when a pilot learns to fly a bs properly to do highsec level 4's they still know nothing of pvp..."
"super chair i agree that newbies would probably end up loosing their ship. ialso see where ragneir is coming from. its perry much would make someone learn about pvp in order to do lvl 4s. would also force coordination between players to not loose ships or a new way to go about doing missions solo. i use to do fe missions after the nerf. you could fly safely 13 jumps with a covert scout in no time. most missions are just 1-2 jumps."
"i'm one of those people that should be moving into low sec, ive easily out grown high sec, and need something different. however low sec in its current form, is just completely unappealing. i'm going to make a broad statement which will probably be flamed, but its how many if not most high sec players think. but flying in low sec is suicide. you cant run missions, because your bound to be shot up, you cant mine, because your bound to be shot up. you cant haul, because your bound to be shot up. the problem low sec has, is that the people that currently play there shoot anything that flys there, and nobody else feels any desire to be involved in that. if you want more people in low sec, there has to be some sort of protection offered to people. wer not all willing to lose ships to gate camps, because its awesome fun. my idea was always that as low sec is empire space, the empires should be policing it. isnt that just common sense. but they should only be policing it for people with a good standing with that faction. i.e. if your in minmatar low sec and have a negative standing to the minmatar republic, the republic fleet wont come save you. i dont know, it was just my idea, anything to get away from the free-for-all thats its perceived is going on at the moment."
"all i really can say to you is learn to fly. low sec is not as dangerous as you described and i have done fe with loosing some small things in missions due to people beating me to the beacon but any can warp to your mission in fe. doing lvl 4s and 5s on the other hand i have never lost a ship in lowsec due to missions"
"that may be so, but what ive told you is the perception most people have. and being told by people that live in low space thats its actually not that bad is the equivilant of the shark saying \"come on in the waters fine\"everyone knows low sec needs love, it should be the natural progression from high sec, not skipped and straight into null. but its not, because rightly or wrongly the perception is that its too dangerous, and so far ive only had that proven to be correct. let me put it like this, right now if i wanted to mine i have to choices, i can stay in high sec, mine less valuable ore from now until the server shuts down tomorrow morning. or i can go to low sec, mine more valuable ore, but chances are that sometime today, probably within the first hour i'll be attacked and i'll have to stop mining, probably having lost a mining barge, or if i was really dumb a hulk. at that point ive been forced into pvp, which for whatever reason i dont feel like doing, so i log off and play something else, or explore the outside world, or mine in high sec. net result is that im still not in low sec. there are all sorts of things that could be done to entice more people into low sec, but none of them will work if people still think that they cant do what they want to do there with relative ease. surely the place for free-for-all combat is npc null sec? outside the reaches of empire, totally lawless, keeps with the theory of the further from highsec the more dangerous space is... just makes sense to me."
"as for mining its not worth it at all. ore gayle difference is so small its not worth the time you would loose due to hostile pilots also an intercepter can warp to you and point you in a belt before you can enter warp if he is lucky. npc null i only would do theirs if i was in one of the pvp alliances for use of their intelligence channels.also i. don't live in low sec i'm in null. i real high sec is broken in terms of the risk and to scale of income is also broken. it use to be high sec being the lowest than low finally null being the best.in that term low is broken. its something i no longer bother with due to how dumb it has become due to it dieing off. when high sec missions came about low sec quickly lost its meaning. high sec still can beat most null due to missions and incursions beat about all null but for null incursions.edityou can use a slavager alt to scout the gates. problem solved. you loose a t1 fitted destoryer. gate camps are easy to avoid. just scout the dumb thing and just take a diffrent route that means you make need to make an extra jump or to to get around."
"i support either option"
"isn't that the one where they send noobs through lowsec to be smartbombed after tyrannis mission load unbalancing?ccp tried to nerf border highsec agents by making them more likely to send carebears to lowsec. noob agent ended up doing what they wanted too. so instead of fixing what they broke by reversing tyrannis mission nerf, they removed the mission? ingenious"
"no, i think the mission you're referring to was in one of the career agents 10 part mission series, which was later changed. the old 'tutorial' agents 2 part mission series didn't involve much travel. part 1 was an encounter in the same system as the agent. part 2 was a courier to the system next door.all of those agents were located in either 1.0 or 0.9 high security systems, most were deadend systems. none of them ever had any low security systems enroute. as i stated in the original post, ccp has replaced those agents with the new tutorial (aura npe), which doesn't give any faction standing increase. dmc"
"i'm up for anything which helps the newbie experience and increases player retention rate.+1 <U+FFFD><U+FFFD>no man ever understands quite his own artful dodges to escape from the grim shadow of self-knowledge.<U+FFFD> - joseph conrad"
"i love this idea!i think that the warp effects during warp need a little improvement too. i know this because i very much hate the current warp effects, and the first thing that a friend tells me when i want to show them eve is, \"man, you just flew right through that station and that planet. the effects kinda suck in this game don't they?\"i found this video to illustrate what faster-than-light travel would look from the inside:"
"do like+1"
"thanks! don't forget to spread the word, get your corp involved, check in and post regularly!there are many little things that anyone can do to help support our cause -- the key is remaining active"
"asteroid belts are very low detail (a bunch of rocks floating in space). my vision of an asteroid belt is something scary and full of debris. warping through objects (as stated above) is sacrificing realism. my windows change positions sometimes when undocking. fleet broadcasts don't make a sound when made. i often miss broadcasts."
"one of my biggest daily annoyances:when swapping laser crystals, the \"used\" option uses new crystals, resulting in a pile of barely-used crystals if you keep a spare set in your ship. this used to work properly and changed with incursion (i think) and has never been fixed.example:i have 12 scorch crystals and 6 in multis in my cargo. i load scorch, shoot something, load multis, shoot something, then choose to load \"scorch m (used)\" it loads the unused scorch crystals, leaving me with two partially-used sets of crystals. in the long term this can result in the system mixing and matching crystals so that you shatter some of the stack and your guns won't fire even though the group shows to have ammo loaded."
"they should also do more to visually alert those of us who play with the game audio muted or on low volume. right now you have to be actively looking for a broadcast, which conflicts with my definition of the term \"broadcast\"."
"yes but if bumping does damage, it would have to give aggression and trigger concord responses. imagine the number of concord actions on the jita undock, or in an ice field when an orca lands in the right spot. while the chaos would be a great show, this isn't a practical idea."
"the whole bumping thing would have to be changed for it to work. i personally think that if you warp into a gate at full speed it's going to hurt, bad. i think bumping shouldn't happen at all. although a ship that destroys its targets by mauling it to death would be cool. why are guns and missiles the only weapon? ramming speed! but anyway, yeah, i think if you warp to something you shouldn't bounce off of it unharmed. it just doesn't make sense.i also thought of the following: when the rorqual transforms during industrial mode it is awesome. i want the same for siege mode and triage mode. the sun should be bigger. also, warping to it would be bad. entering the sun's corona would be deadly right?"
"having a way to save overview settings and share them with the corp, like the corp fittings would be great.sending voice in mail would be cool.having a better system for trading bookmarks, and doing it remotely. maybe add something to the people and places window, or at the very least make it easier for a corp to trade them inside their rented office and pos.corp owned pi, with grantable roles for collections and management of them.my little things are probably a bit of work for ccp, sorry boys but you got to admit that it they would be pimp, and not unbalance the system."
"you can already do that. if you export the overview and you know where you saved them to, you can send them the xml file (or upload it somewhere and provide a link). an in-game method wouldn't be bad either though.even more than that i would like to be able to {im|ex}port my windows positions/sizes/colors. i hate having to backup the game's files and manually overwrite them to keep everything from being reset when i reformat my machine or install on a new machine. and if you need to delete the local data, those are completely gone anyways. just give us a nice json file with window information or something, it's not that hard."
"i'm talking about getting an in-game method to save time and energy. it would be nice if you got a new computer to be able bring up the settings without dealing with backing everything up and playing the upload game."
"i tend to like listening to music while playing eve, and i've created a custom playlist for just that purpose. accordingly, i really wish that eve didn't automatically switch to a pre-selected track from the default soundtrack whenever you go through an acceleration gate, or at least that that's a 'feature' you could manually disable, since the transition is particularly jarring.i wish that probe launchers would auto-repeat, since you need four probes to be able to do anything worthwhile anyway, and having to wait to reactivate the thing on each cycle is somewhat annoying.i really wish that mining lasers would automatically deactivate when the asteroid in question is depleted. i really really wish that they'd do so automatically as soon as they reach the point in their cycle on which the asteroid would automatically deplete if you deactivated them anyway. in fact, it's just that kind of annoyance that led me to sell my hulk and be done with the business.i wish that the process of re-tasking 19 advanced industry facilities to use a different schematic could be streamlined a bit; there's an obscene and rsi-inducing number of clicks required to do that.i especially wish that the most useless of these clicks be removed; the launchpad's 'storage' section should not auto-minimize after each routing. having it vanish each time you're finished using it (forcing you to wait a second for it to go away completely), and then re-click it to bring it up again (forcing another second of wait) fifty-seven times is the most rage-inducing part of an already lengthy process, and one which happens for no reason."
"1 - probe launcher not actually cycling2 - better epic warp effect needed3 - missiles not launching in clusters when more than 1 missile is shot (just keep them as one body for the game to handle but change the graphic!)4 - asteroid belts only vary between a few set formats and never look as large as one should be, going off into the distance.5 - better wrecks and debris aren't produced when things of all sizes blow up, just a generic \"wreck\" shows up.6 - user interface needs much work (see"
"1. i wanna blow up asteroids. it would be so much more fun if i could swoop in and shoot the rock my buddy is mining when i know he is afk.2. i want some amazingly cool warp effects. i'm goin the freakin' speed of light!3. why do turrets get to have all the cool effects, and their shots aren't grouped into one cluster. do the same for missiles."
"this is my current beef with eve.static annom and sig id's! stop changing them on downtime."
"i used to take screenshot of id after dt when i was able to be online at this time, but a little server crash and you did that for nothing...the probes change made basic scanning (checking type, not going to 100%) even more long, so at least give us this little thing..."
"+1they stay in the same places, the wormholes connect to the same systems and retain their mass limits, yet the ids get shuffled?this definitely needs to be fixed soon. good to see a csm backing it."
"this is a perfect point to why the current system does not make sense. i don't suppose we have any chance of input from a dev as to why it is this way? difficult code or intentional...would be nice to know and see ccp's stance on the matter."
"considering we're in the csm assembly hall i really doubt a ccp dev will comment on this thread. that said i haven't had experience with the phenomena listed above but it seems like a slight quality of life change for wh explorers. supported.+1<U+FFFD><U+FFFD>no man ever understands quite his own artful dodges to escape from the grim shadow of self-knowledge.<U+FFFD> - joseph conrad"
"so if you scan down a site before dt and stay in system, you suddenly have no idea you're still in the same system after dt? and it's impossible to identify a system when suns, planets and moons all match up to what they used to be?"
"what?!?!have you ever even been in a wormhole? really, let's let the common sense monster out of its cage on this one (since you seem to be scared of it). when you scan something down in a wormhole, you bookmark it. then you open up \"people and places\" and while holding shift, click and drag to your cargo hold. then take that item and put it in the corporate hangar where anyone can get it. best part, name your exit wh \"exit\" or \"c3 -> c2\". then, rinse, repeat as necessary.-1"
"the j tag, which identifies the wormhole, stays the same. so this has no bearing whatsoever."
"wow...you fell off the boat there bud. this isn't just regarding wh's themselves...this goes for annoms and sigs in general. read this thread again...think about it a bit and try again. you aren't even on the same page here..."
"and you missed my point genius... bookmark your sigs and you won't have to rescan them!! here's a floatie, the boat left before you showed up."
"your point is irrelevant since you have completely missed the point to this thread to begin with. everybody as well as myself are aware that you can bookmark sites and wh's. the point is having to rescan them to update your list of sites and wh's when they do change. new ones pop up...wh's collapse and respawn. this gets ever more complicated when you have a chain of wh's you might use for one purpose or another and you go through downtime. seems to me that the \"common sense monster\" ate your brain before you \"released\" it."
"this would also be a great chance to not only balance pos's but fix the issue with thier size. they need to be way bigger than they are now. the size currently just looks silly. you can store a capital ship in that? wtf?! of course this also goes for actual stations as well. i know a while back ccp made them bigger...but not big enough. bigger! ******* bigger!"
"hello all,first off i'm very very happy with the new font change (might need some resizing i'm told)... differentiation between numbers and letters!!! but i think the needs a lot of work too.a should be:1 - functional2 - convenient 3 - intuitive4 - aesthetically pleasing5 - customizablethe interface we currently have supplies 1 and 5, and 5 only by dint of the limited modular design. i think ccp should go for 1 - 5 to make our interface not just functional, but easy to use, convenient for handling the myriad of tasks an eve player does on a daily basis, intuitive so a new player can easily get a grasp on it, pleasing to the eye to allow us to really show off our game, and customizable to the extent of making it our interface.a friend of mine recently started and he (of course) commented that it was microsoft excel in space. let's push for not just a font change, but a ui redesign.p.s. while they're at it, reorganizing useful information to be available at a moments notice in a good format would be nice for such things as basic weapon info. there are so many things which could use a redesign to make them easier/convenient i don't feel like listing them - feel free to do so yourself!<U+FFFD><U+FFFD>no man ever understands quite his own artful dodges to escape from the grim shadow of self-knowledge.<U+FFFD> - joseph conrad"
"the should also react properly too. i don't know how many times i have clicked on a ship in space and it did nothing at all. click on a ship i have targeted to change targets and...nothing. the ui does need a rework and i recall there was a change coming at one point but it was pushed back and buried...what happened to it? where is the neocom change that was about to release a year ago?"
"anything that gives you the chance to play the game how you want, without effecting other people should be supported imho, especially when it's this simple to implement."
"you need more than 5 clones? that's a lot......i don't see a particular need why this should not be.... although its getting pretty excessive..... i also wouldn't mind a skill to reduce the jc timer.... somewhere between 5-15% / level."
"yeh, i mean why not"
"sure."
"informorph psychology, and \" clones\" were not meant to store implants. that is just a side affect of having clones and implants in the game. \" clones\" were meant so people were able to move to different locations that were significantly distant like the far end of 0.0 to some place like high sec or low sec, or the other side of 0.0 more rapidly encase they were need for something or wanted to participate in something like a large important fleet engagement. not to store implants. that is why they are called <U+FFFD> clones<U+FFFD> not <U+FFFD>implant storage clones<U+FFFD>."
"hey ccp.... you want to get us to start using aurum. we want a way to use it that allows us to show off the stuff we buy with it that also doesnt give an in-game advantage. this can kill two birds with one stone:allow us to use aurum for ship alterations. not anything that affects performance, just appearance. allow some alternate skins for certain ship types, allow us to change the colors on ships, or to add a corp logo/other approved logos to the side of our ships.everyone wins. ccp gets people using aurum, people get to customize in a way that will actually be visible to others, no effect on the game performance-wise or on the economy, plus it brings the focus back to flying in space."
"i like the idea because it would help players personalize their ship. it would also help create a feeling of pride in your corp/alliance since you could have their symbol plastered all over your ship. and it would allow those people who have the isk in eve to put even more into ships (which can be lost). perhaps if an alliance pays a set cost or a set cost per month it could give everyone in the alliance the option to have that ship skin - allowing for a really unique sense when you hang with your buds from other corps in the alliance.a few things to consider however: the ship skin should be destroyed with the ship and it should probably function the same as rigs and be destroyed if the ship is repackaged.+1<U+FFFD><U+FFFD>no man ever understands quite his own artful dodges to escape from the grim shadow of self-knowledge.<U+FFFD> - joseph conrad"
"with the current arum prices..............selling painted cnr, 5.5bil"
"then no one would buy them, and it would be another useless feature.destructible vanity items would mean that fewer people would use them."
"they need to allow me to buy better ammo with aurum.just me."
"because in sisi...- there is no functioning economy.- you can't really make isk.- you don't really buy anything.- you can't really lose anything.- it is subject to resets and tinkering by gms/devs.- the gameplay and effects caused over there are divorced from what happens in tq.sisi is, at it's heart, a test server for gms/devs to play around with eve code. the fact that you can also play with ships, fittings and tactics over there is a perk. nothing more."
"thanks for making my point because what would a simulator be? i've already said i would only support it if there was no gain or loss either way. but i suppose you just glazed over that part right?"
"i see where the op is going with this.hey ccp, where are those mini-games you promised with incarna. don't think i forgot that fanfest from that time where you demoed that board game. i want that. i want to play a game in your game, perferably about playing yet another game. like chess, checkers, spades, hearts, 21 blackjack, poker, texas hold em, go, othello, risk, ..... pokemon fire red."
"the thing you have to ask yourself is do you really want to tie up ccp programing resources for something that already exists. i dont know about the rest of you, but if i want to simulate anything i log on to sisi with a buddy test my fitting, or whatever then bounce back to eve. i would rather see see them do some real improvements to the game and not some stupid **** so carebears can hide in-station.you are flying a spaceship on the internet if going to do pvp then do pvp. if you pvp you are going to lose, its going to happen. you are an idiot if you think you wont, thats part of the fun though, being able to lose. thats why you work to reduce your loss. expensive ships have an edge, but there is more risk involved. so cheap fit a ship grab some friends and go bust up a gate camp. or you can program a simulator for us and leave a link here, because you are not taking ccp's time to do this.dude i heard you liked eve, so we simulated eve on your eve.edit: yeah if you are going to put something in station make it a card game that you can wager isk for. i'd be down to hang at the in station bar, dropping some isk with some mates."
"and just who exactly are you to be deciding what ccp does with thier time?"
"just one guy that's saying whats on my mind. if ccp thinks that making a combat testing program and inserting it into cq is a great idea and they should drop everything and do that, then so be it. i would however like to point out again that sisi is a great way to test out ship fits and simulated pvp, and that is basically what this op wants. they have enough other content to fix and/or improve without having to put resources into something that already exists."
"even in real life warfare self destruction is a viable option to remove the possibility of war material falling into enemy hands. so i think blowing up one's own ship in the face of inevitable ship loss should remain a possible outcome as well. if the enemies are too slow to bring down a ship in the alotted time, they aren't entitled to the spoils.so, i think...self destruct should reduce the probability of modules surviving even further maybe even taking a \"klingon-esque\" approach to the situation: if we need to blow up ourselves, do it with a bang that is painful to everyone nearby as well (those who know good ol' vgaplanets might recognize what i'm thinking about...) i don't care about killmails. never read them, never post any. though what i do care is that when i lose my ship, others shouldn't get anything from it.and yes, before you ask: when i'm doing missions in highsec, i'm not above blowing up my own wrecks as soon as a ninja salvager shows himself. if i can't loot them, nobody else should be able to."
"km whoring ruins this game. logi are crippled by it(the need to km whore to prove you were in a fight save people!) and it leads people into ******** concepts like the idea that a self destructed ship somehow isn't a loss for your enemy. by being a km whore, you are losing fights that you would have won if you had stood back and said 'yeah, they are dead!' because they are getting your tears over them losing a expensive ship.while the isk war is important, its led people into forgetting that the winner of a fight is he who achieve his objectives, even if he lost 3 times the isk worth of ships. you get tiny alliances claiming they won because the alliance could only field a fleet with less than a single of the aggressors ships, but managed to get 1 lucky kill.no, no killmails for self destructing. please, no more killmails at all.bring sanity back to how the victor of a fight is decided, and quit penalizing the force multipliers who don't actually shoot anyone while they make the difference between victory and loss.ps. can we have a new reporting category for fundamentally ******** ops, so as to have the posts removed instead of having to write up a wall of text refuting them?"
"translating op's post\"people play game differntly then me they should not be able to do this so don't let newer players make corps cause i think thats how it should be with no proof it would help the game.\""
"that's not a translation. you are just describing in your own words what i said. .... sigh i guess i see why ccp doesn't like to listen to it's players sometimes. the lack of critical thinking is shocking."
"noobs should all be channeled into my high tax corp and be my slaves. game mechanics should be changed for this purpose. this will definitely happen."
"your critical thinking skills certainly tell us much.such as assuming you posting here is going to make ccp answer.such as assuming your speaking for everyone (bull####)seems like your making a lot of assumptions over a whine over nothing.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"no, its your words plain and simple. you think new players should not be aloud to make a corp... why? because you think that it leads to something that you do not like. some people like miningsome people like missioningjust because you don't doesn't mean rules should change to accommodate your thinking"
"point, i like the way things are right now. just thought of an idea that could improve the game exerperience for newer playerssome people do like to mine others like to mission yes. i wasn't taking these options away from anyone or limiting what activities they can and can't do. you don't even need to be in a corp to do any of these. in fact all ccp would need to do is alter the training time for corp managment skills to something stupidly long and say they are not taking anything away from you.lol accomodate my thinking."
"shhh don't tell anyone my master plan >:)"
"someone else brought up d-scan in another thread. posting here that dscan needs some love. my suggestion is to make it a cone or wedge in the solar system map so that we can see exactly where it's pointed and where its range stops. give it left and right arrow controls to manually adjust it. \"look this direction and scan\" doesn't really seem to have the precision i would expect out of a space ship.(but don't take away the current method of d-scanning, just add in the ss map support)"
"yes...this was a topic of conversation as to if local were to be removed from nullsec than d-scan would need some major love and improvement. remove the clickfest that is d-scan, make it autoscan and improve the scanning process of d-scan."
"i said...shameless bump! stupid new forums...always hungry and eating my posts!"
"it's an annoyance that the id's change after downtime.and really there is no reason for it as the site itself retains everything about it.example: today you scan a grav and mine the ark tomorrow when you warp to it, the ark is still gone and the bistot remains....100% agree - the sigid should not change."
"you forgot something mr. genius.signatures of sites change regardless of whether you bookmarked them or not.and you have to filter out the ones that are already bookmarked from the ones that arent when scanning for new ones amogst the old ones.so this is still a bit of a annoyance...in other words..your both right...and your both wrong.in short...a simple solution is to keep sites that have not changed to stick with the original signature until they expire.simple.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"pretty sure sigs and annoms appear in high sec. i see plenty of people scanning in high sec all the time for all sorts of stuff so this issue effects them too."
"and my point is valid in any security system.don't believe me? look it up your self and try it.im sure any whs guru will also vouch for this as well.trolling quote removed. zymurgist================ stop the evemail spam!"
"but i say leave the scanning the wat it is, its not broken, just a pain.edit: off-topic part removed, ccp phantom"
"good evening.as you probably know, about two times per month ccp qa team is hosting a so called 'mass test' on the singularity test server in order to try out new stuff, optimize old stuff, etc., as the thin-client ccp uses to conduct testing internally can not catch everything. please see mass testing on wiki for more information.as a reward for participating in the test, players are awarded 2 milion skillpoints on singularity to allocate however they want.but i do believe that these fellow capsuleers, who sacrifice their own time to help our benefactors in the everlasting quest of improving eve, deserve a little bit more.therefore i propose:award mass test participants unallocated skillpoints on tranquilityas 2 milion sp would be unbalancing (and crashing sisi), i suggest 10 to 20 thousand - approximately five to ten hours worth of training.it is small enough a boost to envy, while at the same time showing some solid gratitude to the volunteers.something similar could be applied to those finding a bug and submiting a good bugreport - please see this sticky thread. (awarding the first dozen or so people that report that particular bug, as to prevent abusive spamming).importantly, this would probably bring even more players to the tests, allowing the qa team to gather more data.(if i recall correctly, on the 1.10.2011 mass test ccp asked for 500 players, while only 350 came - testing results on wiki)i am looking foward to your comments, opinions, and bumps."
"hell no================ stop the evemail spam!"
"would be game breaking. gtfo of here with your idea. stupid idea is stupid.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"for once he has the right idea, good job draconis, you use those two brain cells!!!!but back to the main issue, this would give a very unbalanced advantaged to people that pay attention to their calender/have other things to do/don't care. while they should get some shiny toy from ccp for slaving over a game, this shiny toy should be worthless.... like a shiny mug for their cq or something :d"
"disagree with the opinions posted thus far; a small amount (hours worth) of sp given out on no more then a monthly basis to people who actually help out ccp on important issues would not at all be out of place. i support the op."
"wtb a real comeback with substance.as far as the thread goes.i like the idea as long as it isnt more often than they usually do the tests and that perhaps only the first x pilots get it (i.e. they ask for 500 and 700 show up, only the first 500 get the bonus. ) xor the bonus is a set amount of sp split among the participants."
"this will likley decrease the quality of reports but increase the volume.necessity is the plea for every infringement of human freedom. it is the argument of tyrants; it is the creed of slaves. - william pitt"
"i will allow myself a small bump."
"not much to say about this one, but supported.little things like this might do better in threads like the \"thousand papercuts\" thread."
"you sir sound like a ******. if clones were not meant to store implants then please tell me why they have for as long as i have played this games (4 years) . if i wish to go pew pew 40 s away pls tell me why i should auto pilot when i dont have free/cheap clones anymorre?ps (troll moar)"
"i don't need to explain it to you, the answer is in my post. if you have reading comprehension problems then there is nothing i can do for you.by the way my previous post was not a troll, this what a troll post looks like."
"rule of eve: design intent comes secondary to player usage. if people are using clones to store implant sets... either to allow them a menu of implant bonuses to choose from or simply to keep their expensive stuff safe for pvp, then that's actually part of what they're for.accordingly, it wouldn't at all be unreasonable to have extra skills out there to improve on the use of jcs.of course, since having five jcs floating around with full sets of faction implants is an expensive hobby, expect an expensive skill with long training time."
"i actually like this idea.+1"
"as far as the destructible paint job is concerned maybe it's something that is tied to the account of the individual who purchased the skin. they can skin as many ships as they want but you can sell the ship to someone else with the skin still on it. that way if someone wants one they wouldn't necessarily have to pay for it in aur but would have to deal that if they lost that ship that they wouldn't be able to repaint their next ship. it would had another element to the economy. but that could also be a terrible idea where it just turns into \"who paid for the skin packs off the nex...they are rich now\". i definitely agree that they need to have ship mods in the nex but implementation is going to be the harder thing and choosing which direction to take it.also +1"
"wtb jolly roger ship emblem for 2k aurum."
"i think it is safe to say that it won't happen anyway. so that's pretty much that."
"the aggressed logging changes makes me hesitate. the simplicy of it is good, but the implications are bad. the 15 min timer was introduced because ccp acknowledged that computer problems happen and you are sometimes unintentionally disconnected in battle. the 15 min timer was there to ensure you'd die if you were going to die. supercaps have such large ehp that they broke this rule. now there is the expectation that supers who would not normally have died will die as a result (i.e. a super is aggressed attacking a tower in an empty system, he dcs and warps off aggressed. a lone helios comes in, scans him down, and keeps him aggressed for 4hrs until his friends get home from work to come kill it). this breaks the intention of the original rule in the opposite direction.the proposed halfway point on this much more closely mimics the original spirit of the rule:standard 15 min aggression logoff timers for all ships (can make it 30 for supers if you want), and then only give the infinitely repeating aggression that holds the ship in game if the ship is super-pointed or bubbled. if a super isn't pointed or held down within 15-30 minutes after logging, there is no reasonable assumption that the ship would have normally died otherwise."
"your missing the point.the point of the change is to prevent people from escapaing by pulling the plug on the interent connection.mainly this is a massive debate thats been going on for years...you cannot and will not be able to prove if that person was disconnected or just pulling the plug to save his precious ship...sc or not.not supporting================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i never differentiated between legit and illegit disconnects. it doesn't matter. if you cannot catch (point/bubble) or kill a super in a full 30 minutes after it's signed off, then you don't deserve the kill regardless. i'm not missing the point. the point is that only ships that were going to die if they hadn't dc'd should die. this is about fairness. all the major engagements where an entire side mass logged to avoid death, will all still die under this proposed change. all lowsec hotdrops that go south and the super logs to avoid dying, will die as a result."
"reasonable point is reasonable; inclined to agree. any force capable of killing an sc should be able to point it. heck, any force capable of killing ships in general should be able to point. it'd be entirely reasonable to consider logoff-warp in the same sense as any other warp, and require point to counter it."
"who doesn't get point on a ship they're trying to kill?"
"supported.while i agree that a name change history would be nice - the fact of the matter is that people change over time, and names that might have sounded like a good idea no longer do after 2-3 years.with a reasonable cost, it's a valuable service that will more than cover it's own expenses."
"i agree with the missiles grouping thing. i think it'd be neat to have the missile volley graphic look like as many missiles as are in it. since they're only blips of light, that shouldn't be hard to implement. also, missiles are just blips of light. of course viewing them from the rear, that's all you're going to see. but from the side or front-on, you should see a missile heading that bright blip. it's most noticeable when missiles are fired at you. you should see a dark object silhouetted in front of the bright dot.i miss the old mining sounds. when i was in my first week, i was mining away when i discovered a mining barge. the strip miners seemed to awesome, it made me really want to have a mining barge of my own. for months, every time i got bored, i would pull out my mining barge and let the soothing roar of the strip miners lull me to sleep in front of my computer. or if i wanted something a bit more gentle, the ice miners did nicely. great way to make some isk while just passing time. and if i ever didn't want to hear them, of course i could just zoom the view out till the sound stopped. so please bring the old strip miner sounds back!!"
"agreed on the new mining lasers. not enough umph where the old ones were obviously ripping roids to bits. i'm not sure how to fix bouncing. maybe a little more precision to ship movement. it can be annoying. why can't i sort local by sec status, standings, and whatever else? bombs! bomb effects from stealth bombers are boring! i expected an explosion, and got crap. missiles need the attention that turrets got. i want to log with an alt without completely logging out of my account. modular pos's are a great idea! don't screw them up, and make them dockable! some ship models need revisited... make that a lot of ship models. using 3rd party programs to skill plan works, but shouldn't that be in-game? warp effects are boring as stated above i believe. i want my ship to have a crew! i don't want to be so lonely in my space ship. ships should have lots of people involved in making them go. undocking from station can sometimes leave you inside or colliding with another ship. that's just not right. either manage undocking better, or make it so there aren't ships inside of ships when undocking."
"what if they put more then one undock point on a station. like jita 4-4 could have 4 undock points and it cycles through them so ships arent coming out on top of each other. that would also make it harder to be station camped by a couple of guys, but it also makes the undock insta-warp very difficult. that is thinking that the undock points are pointed in different directions, but you could probably have them point the same direction on one side. you would just have to stack the undock points on each other and the undock insta-warp and station camping wouldn't be disrupted."
"scanning is not broken.there are plenty of other broken features to worry about (fw for one) to try to fix something that isn't broken, which would only lead to it inevitably being broken. don't like scanning? just don't do it.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"1.0"
"nobody said scanning is broken. it's a pain in the ass mechanic that id's of sigs and anomalies change for no reason at all other than the game server reset. i don't understand why people have to hold such a torch against making such a simple easy change that would better the lives of anybody that uses scanning. would you ragequit from eve if this change was made or something?"
"its not that easy is bad, its that there is so much more things we need fixed, and honestly scanning stuff should be a pain in the ass, its a challenge that reaps good rewards. one of the few ways this game promotes \"hard work\". so leave it be"
"supported. +1down time is for daily backups and server maintenance and should not affect in-game content, so signatures should not change until the anom/wh/whatever is despawned or gone./proc"
"you offer a valid arguement, that is strange.i still think that scanning shouldn't be \"fixed\" or improved cause its not broken nor does it need improving. it functions fine the way it does."
"thread cleaned.please stay on topic. thank you!"
"a lot of people keep talking about scanning.... just to be clear.its got nothing to do with scanning.its the signature tags asigned to sites as they spawn...then cycle through every downtime.the proposal kinda jumps all over the place but the solution as i said before is to keep the signatures locked until they cease to exsist or get exhausted by a player running through said signature.in wormhole space you could be in a fresh class 3 or 4 and get anywhere from 25 to 50 signatures on a good day.and from there on you could have 5 to 10 new signatures (minimum of 3 on average) every 24 hours.and that's not including new spawns during the day that tirgger to say a wh collapse.you'd have to take copious notes...and bookmarks have to be filed and not just \"slapped\" together with a funny name.then coordinate that with an entire team if your living in said wormhole to make sure they dont lose track.you end up rescanning sites again even if they are bookmarked to eliminate the signatures when they change.that is the frustration....this is the case for known space (not just \"high sec\" as some foolish indiidvuals poke fun at).the only difference is...your not going to get tons and tons of signatures every day in known space because tis \"known space\"more like 5 if your fortiante.0.0 might be more depending on the i-hub + upgrades installed.feel free to shed a little light on that 0.0 gurus.scannings fine.its the game mechanic tagging signatures on sites....that should be adjsuted....but not drastically made easier....just less painful.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"thank you drake. thats about as simply put as it's gonna get. if people can't understand that then they are a hopeless cause."
"/signed"
"bump"
"i approve of op post"
"speaking of brain cells not being rubbed.all we need is to incite a mob of sp hungry pilots who care nothing but for profit and sp's to train skills faster and give ccp inaccurate reports on bugs/issues on an already bug riddled game.like i said... hell no.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"skill points, no. a vanity item like perhaps a singularity jacket, sure, why not. no in game advantage and yet your participation would be duly recognized."
"that's better reasoning then your first response.even so, a lot of the recent testing has been stuff like mass tests, where what is desired is precisely just hundreds of people running around doing stuff, with no need for specific reports being filed. that kind of thing is precisely where ccp most needs lots of people hanging out, and offering sp incentives for that makes perfect sense.as for the other thing, where ccp needs specific and detailed reports, then they might instead offer sp bounties on good reports... where 'good' is defined as 'useful to the devs'. imbalanced? you betcha. but it'd work, and no one but the most dedicated bughunters would get more then a few days of training time out of it. and let's face it... they probably deserve it."
"everytime you come up with stupid ideas such as this, a kitten dies. this is just stealth qq for skillpoints."
"guys its like 4 hours worth of training, its not a huge boost especially of there is only 1 test a month or so. its not game breaking at all.quality of reports??? are you ********? if 350 go, they might get 50 reports, 10 will mean anythingif 500 go 80 might be sent in and 15 might mean something... not to mention more people means the devs themselves can monitor the situations.it couldnt hurt. i say make it 2 hours worth of training though. basically its like training 2 times as fast while at the mass test."
"not supported.it was a mistake for ccp to give out skill points out for anything except the removal of the learning skills."
"never liked kittens anyway."
"this is why your a terrible person with terrible ideas.still don't support.too many exploits could be had from this.give out mug or something else i can break over a hobo's head when they knock on my door."
"for once i actually agree.better to award vanity items or some actual real stuff like eve strategic maps or eve online paperback books or some t-shirts.getting an in-game advantage for testing something like crazy is going to pollute the results of those tests.this game is screwed up enough already as it is...we don't need sp hungry pilots making it more jaded than it is.i mean i'd rather see like faction ships or something awarded.... at least it has value...and that value can be destroyed like everything else in this game.sp's are a little more difficult to remove. vanity items are harmless for the most part... but for the love of all things good lets not make it worse than it already is.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"and as much as i hate to agree with 0:7, i'm going to have to. ****, even give the testers some aurum so they can buy something in the nex store. i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"vanity items - how then would you encourage people to attend a test or submit a bugreport more than once? also, i am not sure if people change their appereance often enough. and giving out also, every pilot in eve is sp hungry - but only a tiny fraction would spend 2 hours just to get something they would get anyway.it would still be significantly more time-effective to run mission and buy better implants/pvp with better implants than to attend.assuming 2000 sp/hour (i am training 2580/hour at the moment by the way), and a 30 day month: 1 440 000 sp a month.should a player earn 20 000 sp by testing and/or submiting quality bugreports, he would be cca 1.3% percent better.is that really so unbalancing?"
"you have no business asking that question if you don't understand why we are so passionate enough to tell you hell no.i'll give you a ltitle hint.some of us actaully put a little time time into our accounts and don't like it when peolpe are given shortcuts for something that will not have a lasting impact on game in a good way.givnig ccp botched bug reports or showing up for a test evevnt for sp's won't be for the bug reprots...it will be for the sp's.this is a question of motivation...not goals. they wont give a crap about filing reports. that is the point. let alone showing up to test something that is likely going to be utterly boring or reptitive.singualrity kills don't count after all as an example.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"it will have good impact - as the qa team will have more data, leading to better game.as not to spam the reports - that's why i suggested awarding only first dozen or so of quality reports."
"more data != quality data (thats does not equals for those who don't know programming speak)================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i disagree with any proposal that grants sp to any player for any reason outside of current game mechanics. the way the time based training and skill queue work is one of the fundamental parts of eve that makes it both different and better than any other game out there. any proposal that wants to change this is, in my opinion, a bad idea.what about \"paying\" players for participating in tests with aur? aur seem to be worthless (to me anyways) and people who participate in the tests could be paid, say, 500 aur/hour for their participation? that wouldn't unbalance skill training, and they could buy themselves monocles or something if they like."
"which would equal precisely 2 more than you...so...im with draconis on the \"hell no\". if they won't give us sp on tranquility for participating in sisi testing why would they give us sp for finding bugs they are already fully aware of?either way anything that is giving free sp for doing nothing is a bad idea."
"one of the shortcomings of eve is that corps and alliances are able to quickly mobilize forces to attack or defend through use of titan bridges, bridges and clone ing. advanced infomorph psycology would finish with 9 or 10 clones. with that ability, there would be nowhere in eve that a fleet can't rapidly form. every npc region in eve could then have a fleet amass, attack, and if opposition is stiff, slip back to safer spots. sov warfare would be especially horrendous. here's the strategy: \"everyone leave a clone and 2 pvp ships in system xxxx. when the time comes to take our space back, we'll hit from front, middle and back.\" there would never be a need to destroy that clone you haven't needed for a year because you have 8 more, 3 of which are in friendly space."
"not seeing the downside to that one. in fact, it sounds quite especially awesome. i approve. with 9 clones total (10 for the fanatics), and possibly a skill reducing the duration of clone cooldown, tactics like that can actually be implemented, which means more toolboxes on hand for fights. having the option to use old clones you had lying around to do 'behind the lines' sorts of small-gang pvp instead of just forming up with the blob seems like a major plus, instead of a minus."
"considering that most icemining bots actually work in null sec and not high sec like some might like to make believe, i fail to see the point."
"completely reckless. would wreck havoc on all the pos owners who do not have connections in null. my wh corp would be paying a tax to the nullsec alliances who would cartel the ice prices. again, so reckless i cant believe they even put it on the whiteboard. it's a disaster that even the most clouded mind can forsee."
"you are mistaking the csm with an in-game alliance. dont. its stupid."
"is this the concept? ice ----> 0.0. ---> ice prices cheaper in 0.0. ----> pos maintenance cheaper in 0.0. ----> t2 production cheaper in 0.0 ----> t2 mods/ships cheaper to 0.0 dwellers ----> t2 = 0.0. if so, please make tag costs associated the purchase of fed navy gear reasonable so i can fit up my vexor navy issue with fed navy gear (low sec = faction navy gear)."
"i say...instead of removing ice from any system we make it available in all systems. every system should have at least one ice belt in it including wh space. there...everybody go suck an ice cube and watch the market on pos fuels crash.if you can set up a pos in high sec then there should be ice belts in high sec. sames goes for low and null. wh space is a special case as ccp never intended corps and alliances to live there permanantly like we do now but now i wouldnt mind seeing ice in wh space."
"toy with a fit with eft, test fit in sisi or with a buddy in tq, theres your \"simulated pvp\"this adding an eve in my eve would be unnecessary and i really don't want xhibit (**** his dumb spelling) in my spaceship game. hopefully this thread dies soon."
"how do we run ideas by ? in case, we don't like what the player-voted csm is doing or how they are representing us? maybe can put a good word in for an idea with ccp."
"pity reply"
"ccp came to the csm for commentary on this change, we provided our feedback. it's not a conspiracy, sorry!"
"lmao. i never knew eve uni provided unelected csm. here i was under the impression that the only csm were the ones we voted(or failed to vote)for. gonna have to remember not to bother to vote since the 'other csm' makes it meaningless"
"it's past time to improve the general pve content in this game. it's past time to bring wormhole/incursion ai to all npc rats.1) no, this does not mean that npc rats need to be as hard as sansha or sleepers.2) npc rats do not need to be buffed in terms of there dps and hp, but buffed a lot in terms of thier ai i.e. all npc frigs now scram and web, npc crusiers use ai to remote rep, focus fire etc.3) ccp does not have to introduce new loot for these changes but can increase unit bounties by a % say 100% increase in bounties to justify the harder experiance that would require at least two pleople working together or dual boxing to complete missions.4) this will make the game harder for noobs, but not that much harder. noobs will benefit more from running level 1 and 2 missions with a friend and that's why it's important that the bounties should be at least doubled to reflect the number of people needed to run the improved missions, belts, exploration sites.5) these changes will easily improve eve existing old, basic and boring general mission and belt ratting pve content.6) these changes are long overdue.7) these changes are not hard to make.8) noobs will whine a bit but this change provides a small stick to increase thier social interaction, which is eve's best part.9) please make this change soon."
"this wouldnt affect people that solo pve, so theres not much point in this since a fair majority of pve is solo (incursions excluded)"
"i agree, it would make soling missions much harder (you would need to dual box) and soloing blet ratting a bit harder. however; can you honestly say that you enjoy playing with eve's current dumb npc ai? do you realy like running one mindless mission after another? so many other games have much more fun pve content because the npcs you are up against use good ai. can't we encourage ccp to provide us with more entertaining npcs?"
"no, time and time again no, this kills the ability to \"carry\" newer players through missions so they getthe hang of it. this will also mean drones die a lot more due to target switching"
"i agree that the change would need to be balanced so that the incrase in dificulty does not put off new players. perhaps drone sigs and hp ccould be buffed a bit? npc time shooting at player drones could be less than for sleeper/sansha ai etc. perhaps ccp could scale the changes to be less in levels 1 and 2, and 3, but more in levels 4 and up? it's just that i find the level of quality of the general pve offered in eve's belt, mission and to a lesser extent in exploration sites to be very sub par when compared to other games out now. it would be ok for a fp2 game but i don't think the quality is high enough for a monthly subscription game."
"i would conditionally support this as a part of a bigger rework of the npc ships fit and behavior:a) improved ai;b) fits similar to player fits, using existing modulesc) dropped loot corresponds to npc ship fit, if it's pointing me with some super-dupper 60km point, i want this point to have a chance to drop;d) cap stability, speed, sensor strength, tracking, etc. same as existing ships, i.e. npc sansha bs spawn has same stats as ordinary nightmare;e) belt, plex and mission spawns scaled down to manageable levels, i don't want belt ratters to have to cope with the equivalent of three player flown machariels; f) npc bounties scaled up to compensate for e)pain is weakness leaving the body"
"part of what i'm also hoping for is for ccp to change empire pve and made it posible for small fleet of manual flying (read \"real player\") empire pilots (say at least 2 in fleet) to be able to out earn a bot ship.it be great if you could have fun and earn more isk playing harder, more complex and more chalenging contentent in empire over a 2 hour stretch than can be earnt by a typical 0.0 bot that runns 10 hours at a time."
"all sounds good to me. ( i'm also for ending solar system local and only keeping constalation and regional chat...but that's another story)"
"a couple of thoughts: 1.) the last thing ccp should do at this point in time is increase hi-sec bounties. null-sec anomalies were nerfed because the raw isk flowing into the game was unhealthy.... what do you think doubling the bounties on all rats will do?? 2.) an improved ai on missions would be nice... but nerfing all missions so you can feel like your facing a harder opponent is most definitely not something the majority of eve players want. i would think asking for an alternative set of missions with sleeper ai npcs is more appropriate. how you will balance this, in terms of risk vs reward, system security, lp's, and loot is a non-trivial problem... but you can leave that to ccp. perhaps these missions will be provided by concord agents, with the reward balanced via lp's.... i don't care.... 3.) nullsec rats need to scram more..."
"as a null-sec resident, i too love this idea.... i mean, who really needs isk in this game to replenish the stuff they lose? its bots and empire residents... obviously. they're the true consumers in eve's economy!!! on a serious note, i shouldn't be able to earn quality isk anywhere near my nullsec base... there's too much fighting and destruction going on there. all serious isk-making in this games is best left to illegal programs and empire residents."
"i agree. i find much of eve's current pve is too repetitive, not fun, boring and far too easily exploitable by boting. boting in 0.0 side systems already allows some of the game's major alliances to finance tens to hundreds of super capitals a year. this is the most dangerous isk faucet in eve (especialy when coupled to the existing moon goo/sov system). many alliance and corp members will swear on their holy books that this is not the case, but recent exposes in gaming news has proven that it is the case. the anomaly nerf hit real, active players more than it hit bot income.i hope ccp is be able to increase player's fun-in-space while flying-in-space by making player isk generating activities more fun, harder, more complex, more unpredictable, and more challenging. i would be perfectly happy if ccp removed all plex, removed the ability to use $ to buy isk, and make the game<U+FFFD>s pve content too unpredictable and too hard to bot. is it technically impossible to make eve<U+FFFD>s pve content fun to play while also making it naturally un-bot-able?"
"+1theres absolutly no reason why all high sec missioning has to be soloable. this would bring more diversity and challenge to mission grinding."
"another \"it won't effect everybody in eve so there is no point\" response. you are proving to be a bit of a drag on these forums. this seems to be another simple fix that should be easy for ccp to implement. i agree with it. any upgrade to the ai of rats would improve the overall game."
"no to: making more isk in 2 hours of highsec than 10 hours of 0.0making all the rats in l1 (and 90% of l2) missions web and scram. wutever to:advanced ai for npc.ai will not make pve more fun. it just makes you adjust the shooting order.it will not make it anymore dangerous outside of allowing more time for players to warp in to your location (assuming scrams have not been dispatched quickly enough). in other words: put sleeper ai in place if you want because it doesnt help or hurt. everyone should be clear that it won't do what op claims it does however (with the exeption of detering noobs from missions until they can fly appropriately skilled ships)."
"after this, i don't think any more argument needs to be presented.any change that forces everyone to dual box or form fleets to do one of the most basic activities in eve shouldn't happen. it would drive a lot of players away from the game."
"holy mother of god, a proposal thread i actually and completely agree with... never thought i'd see the day.~badposter since fooooreeeeevaaaaar~ i come back after 2 years to this? ~now 4 years apparently"
"i support name change op has good arguments"
"yes pls +1 and great idea !"
"personally, i like aur idea. i find the idea of spending rl for vanity items repugnant (but that's me) and what's available isn't worth the isk on the market. that being said, i'm one of the people on the fence about showing up for mass tests. i keep meaning to but never get around to it. sis laucher helped this might actualy tip the balance. aur isn't game altering and really it's probably the only way i'd ever end up having enough to buy anything decent."
"as someone that was part of one of the biggest blobs of the time (the nc) and now part of the thunderdome i can tell u that noone would clone to save a tower or i-hub/station because of one simple fact the 24 hour delay. forming a gang to then tell them they are stuck in whatever back end of space for 24 hours would end up with no gang. those taking part in sov war are generally engaged in very close proximity to their own space and so do not need to clone . the idea is to allow people to simply have more clone so be able to get away from sov way and go have some fun the other side of eve and 5 clones is not enough any more for many of us that have played this game for a long time."
"they did add those 4 faction eccm sets. i would like to use them but i have only a few clones left and i'm not sure what set to get. make faction war occupancy pvp instead of pve"
"the solution to wanting to use more implants is to allow us to remove them with a cost and/or some from of penalty like they have a chance to break or something. then we would be able to use all the different implants we could want. personally i would not mind having more clones but not because i want to store implants, but i want to be able to use them for what they were intended for. would be nice if there was an advance infomorph psychology skill that would lower the 24 hour timer by 4 or so hours per skill level. that would be useful."
"well, it would certainly profit the nullsec empires who are pushing for it but then i guess thats the point of the whole drama isn't it.if ccp can't see past the self interested loud squawks for more worms from the nullsec inhabitants (who already have the best of everything), and realise what a terrible idea removing hs ice is, then all hope is lost. p.s. show me the high sec alliances that have corp wallets numbered in the trillions as do the null sec moongoo/plexing/botting types (i.e. most of them probably excluding fa). numbers most likely can be counted on the fingers of one hand.edit: ccp - fix the problem, kill the bots. that is all."
"is there a way for ccp to change the existing pve ratting and mining isk model and to make it more immersive and less easily exploitable from bots? i would like this to be one of the core focuses of changes to fis. i wish is to see ccp focus on making fis fun-in-space again with more immersive content and the removal, if possible of bot friendly grind content. i think ccp would need to do more than just move ice from high sec to low sec/0.0. i would like to see ccp work more on the mechanics of mining to try to make it more immersive and not profitable to bot. if ccp can't improve mining, then perhaps the existing mining system should be removed and all players be given access to a mining bot like ship? ccp sent so much effort over the last year and a half on either adding grind to the game via planet-vile or adding content that does nothing to increase fis game immersion. i hope ccp will now refocus on the games core pve mechanics and pvp-sov-moon-goo mechanics ."
"resource gathering is *always* going to be tedious in some fashion. that's been true for every single mmo that i've played over the past decade.and since existing bots can already run missions, what makes you think that they won't be able to handle any curve ball thrown by ccp developers? ccp needs to do a better job of identifying and banning bots - and make announcements when they do it."
"this is a very good idea.it seems that ice products in eve online are somewhat the equivalent of oil.similarly, ore is the equivalent of steel.in many respects, eve ought to revolve around these two principle materials.moving ice to low sec will make it the true rare and desirable material it's supposed to be.the economics analysis was also very concise and eye opening. however, i do not think this will affect the rmt/bot population problems which plague this game.botting is just as easy in lower security space as it is in higher security space."
"my .25 isk worth1: make a tool based on the preview tool to apply emblems to ships. drag and drop, scaling functionality2: basic emblem (guristas, ammarr, jolly roger): 2k aur for unlimited applications 100 aur for single apllication.3: advanced emblems (corporate/alliance emblems): a: 10k for corporate 50k for alliances. copr/alliance pays for it and can bestow to members like a role/permission (pass probation) b: 4k aur for unlimited applications, 500 for a single application. corporate logos and alliance emblems change as affiliations change. or you lose the ablility to use them unless you are a member.4: people fighting fw get access to their faction's emblem. it disappears when a ship with it is sold or the character retires.5: a variation: pvp killmail trophies. every ship has an area that is set up for killmails. specific to the ship, gets destroyed with the ship, gets destroyed with repackaging. ie that drake has killed 3 rifters, 2 tristans and 1 drake. maybe i'll take on someone else. points for debate:1: 3a vs 3b vs 3c-z2: should advanced emblems transfer when the ship is sold via contract (repackaging would destroy the emblem)3: should trophy emblems be for solo combat only? might encourage solo a bit. (not really holding my breath though)"
"it should be common knowledge that low sec has been f*cked for years. so i support this."
"i was reading another proposal for modifying the bounty hunter profession in new eden. i think i<U+FFFD>ll give this one a try. if you don<U+FFFD>t like it, no worries, forums allow for your opinion too.currently the bounty hunter profession is broken, we know this, ccp knows this, and god knows this. to fix this issue, we have to provide means for bounty hunters to conduct their duties. now for the best part<U+FFFD> what if<U+FFFD>bounty hunters could be contracted by concord? the way this could work is bounty hunters would have access to the <U+FFFD>wanted<U+FFFD> roster as they can now; however could chose to accept contracts and gain kill rights to conduct their operations. the cost for this option would be a percentage of the bounty provided to concord as collateral. the collateral will only provide rights to the individual paying; however they are not limited to soloing. other members would have to pay a percentage as well, with the percentage increasing as more bounty hunters take the contract. (ie. bounty on <U+FFFD>wanted criminal<U+FFFD> = $5,000,000 isk <U+FFFD> contract/kill rights collatoral = $2,500,000 isk) this is just an example, ccp can figure out an appropriate percentage. the reason for the increased increment for the collateral would be to prevent too many people from gaining kill rights cheaply. if said bounty hunter had to pay 200% of the bounty to gain kill rights, they would be less inclined to pursue that character. it isn<U+FFFD>t cost effective. after the bounty is taken, bounty hunters could be assigned a <U+FFFD>case worker<U+FFFD> aka dedicated locator agent, similar to those logistics characters in console games that feed <U+FFFD>important info<U+FFFD> to the lead character through the game. however, the information would cost, increasing increments as the bounty hunter continues to use the agent. essentially, the agent could provide continuous updates as long as the bounty hunter is willing to pay the price, allowing for the bounty hunter to manage the cost effectiveness of his operation.once the <U+FFFD>wanted criminal<U+FFFD> is killed and a kill mail is generated, the money is deposited to the bounty hunter via concord for contract completion. if no bounty hunter was on the kill, the money is split by the assailants. to dissuade people from using alts to pod themselves with alts, or make it more difficult, one possible solution would be to create skills that must be trained in order to use the bounty hunter profession. i don<U+FFFD>t know. eve already has a god awful learning curve, but i think this would make the bounty hunter profession more fun, and **** in people<U+FFFD>s cheerios so it<U+FFFD>s whatever<U+FFFD> cheers!"
"shows promise, and better then most of the bounty hunter ideas i've seen, but doesn't really elaborate much on ways to prevent people from podding themselves for cash other then 'make it a skill', which is fairly weak. all told, it feels more the framework of an idea then an idea itself, but it'd be hard for anything to be worse then the existing system.i give this proposal 3/5 stars."
"this is an awesome proposal that deserves the attention of ccp."
"for level fours and fives sure, maybe some of the tougher lvl 3s. but also, if they do this, the ai should not go after drones. it would be a bad thing for gal ships that are rather underused for missions as it is.necessity is the plea for every infringement of human freedom. it is the argument of tyrants; it is the creed of slaves. - william pitt"
"fair points. i don't want to see anyone making more isk in 2 hours of highsec than during 10 hours of active (non boting) 0.0 pve'ing. what i'm hoping for is real players being able to more easily outcompete bots. this might be possible if ccp offers more isk from more fun and immersive pve content than from the existing pve content which is full of grind, is very bot friendly, and is mind numbingly boring. is there a way for ccp to change the existing pve isk model and to make it more immersive and less easily exploitable from bots?"
"yeah, i agree with that. it's best to focus more on belt rats and the level 4 and 5 content. i also love my drones and am looking forward to a blaster boost."
"i see nothing wrong with the aggression logout timers.people will use any means to avoid dying and this is long overdue."
"just display character id in info sheet which is unique and unchangeable, all the problems with name changing can be avoided. you don't need to keep those \"name change history\".like character info as followscapitan epic loserplex id 42347861235......"
"bumping for effect. also i was thinking about this today. the server has to remember the location of each site in each system and what it is and what has been done to it so far such as mining, gas harvesting, rats killed and whatnot. so with that considered it has all that already saved so when the server comes back up all of that information is the same. the only thing different is the sig id. now...wouldn't it create more work for the server to assign all new id's. wouldn't it be easier to just save the current id?"
"we are in terrible need of changes. well, we always are, but right now i'm seeing these.corporation management skillstrade skillssocial skillssubsystem skills (see below)planet management skillslearning implants (see below)to address the problems as we did with the learning skills by readjusting everyone's base attributes up, i propose the following:emulate trade skills at lv5. contracts should be made limitless, and buying and selling should be possible from across the universe instead of being region-restricted. being able to access station services across the galaxy for items you own would be great too (say you wanna recycle all your garbage and sell it somewhere 50 jumps away instead of having to have to go back to that region).same with social, emulate all skills at 5. no sensible person likes grinding and skill training is slow enough without players having to train just to optimize standing gains with npc's and such.planet management, as above, lv5. and on a side-note - please make an auto-repeat function with an option to send notifications about the production yields so players don't have to manually access each planet to check on them and renew the cycles. do-able by scripting a simple function that resets a cycle based on where the player sets it (reset every 1 hour, 2 hour, 3 hour and so on.)subsystems - i'm not a strategic cruiser pilot so this is going to earn me some rage but this is merely an alternative i've been thinking about. take the subsystem skills and roll them into their parent t3 cruiser skills and then adjust the parent t3 cruiser skill multipliers to reflect the change (currently they're 5x so maybe 6x). yay or nay?biggest issue - please revert all of nullsec back to 0.0 instead of this new negative level system. it did nothing but cripple pve for us carebears and render quite many systems frankly worthless to live in. reduced minerals means reduced materials, reduced materials means reduced pvp. if you cripple the miners, you cripple the fighters by default (where do you think they're gonna get everything from?).there's an other issue that i've been raging at. cloaks. there's no way to counter cloaks the same way you counter any other fleets in a tactical way. cloaked ships, covert or not, are completely outside of eve's tactical rock-paper-scissors and this invites people to permacamp enemy systems with cloaked ships just to discourage undocking (and you never know if they're afk or just trolling because they will find you in a sanctum soon after). there needs to be a way to break enemy cloaks, but at a proportionate cost versus the training to use cloaks.something like an echelon, but a big fat slow 1-slot ship that equips an anti-cloaking module that breaks all cloaks within 100-ish km (friendlies included) and disables cloaks for... 10 seconds? penalties equal to firing a doomsday device (sitting duck, so the anti-cloak won't be spammable, and another ac cannot activate within 5 minutes of the first one)over to learning implants (not combat implants). this was already posted in another topic but there can never be enough spam for change. they're too expensive, they're a drain on your wallets to replace and they discourage newcomers. do away with them, attributes and remapping altogether. skill training should default to as if players had 25 already.actually the above gave me another idea. if players have an active account (must not be trial or cancelled with time left, have an actual subscription going) and they don't train anything, the time wasted should rack up points anyway and be available for spending. that way people don't lose training time, but at the same time it doesn't train them faster (if you idled for an hour you'd only gain 2100-ish points assuming 24 in all attributes). it only makes sense since i doubt ccp can handle the alternative method of allowing people to queue skills up endlessly (that is, do away with the 24-hour start restriction), and this way players will be able to come back to their still-subscribed account and catch up to everyone else."
"lol wut?itt: someone who doesn't like having to train skills to get the benefit from them."
"read it again. why train skills just to increase the number of players you're allowed to recruit into your corporation?"
"you seriously have to ask that question?================ stop the evemail spam!"
"what the ****?!?!?!really, i don't think eve is for you mate, you know what? im a ceo, and even i am against taking away the corp management skills, basically means if you want to elad a corp, you have to be willing to invest your time and isk into that proffession and live with it, tying up your skillpoints is part of leading a corp, and should not be removed, all it would do is inspire tons of half-assed ceo's to start their own corps and then barely even work in them.i think what im trying to say is, quit trying to simplify eve to suit your laziness and/or add, eve is supposed to be ahrder not easier, im still mad they took the bulldozer off the top of the cliff."
"think again. why train skills just to increase the damage your guns do? why train skills just to increase your ship's speed? why train skills just to be able to fly different ships? everyone should have the exact same character with all skills maxed out when they start eve so they don't have to bother training anything. /sarcasmthe skill levels are there so that you can work to improve what you can do in the game, and running a corp, trading more effectively, or running pi is no different than anything else. people who decide the skills are worth it, train the skills, everyone else shouldn't get a free pass on training skills just because they don't feel like it. if it's not worth it to you, don't train it, if it is, go ahead and train the skill. just don't ask for the skill to be removed and everyone given max stats just because it isn't worth it for some people to train it."
"who said anything about not investing time and isk into it? and since you're going to be such an \"if it's easy it sucks\" scrub about it, go troll in another topic.if i wanted the complete removal of skill training, i would have written it in my original post, wouldn't i? *puts a torch to your strawman*i'm not saying \"remove skill training\". i'm saying \"remove unnecessary skills\". i don't see the logic in having to train a skill to expand a corp's member count, the same way i wouldn't see someone try to capitalize on some sort of talent at cramming crowds into a soccer stadium irl. it won't impact veterans and it will make eve look more presentable to newcomers who have never touched an mmo before, and it only makes sense to make accommodations that will attract more players who eventually become subscribers (within reason, we don't wanna mess with the core gameplay)."
"frankly, op has to be trolling. how else could such a terrible proposal be made in a way that doesn't sound sarcastic? nice try, but this is ridiculous. all skills have value. you wanna be a ceo of a large corp? train for it. you want to fly t3? train for it. you want to manage planets? train for it. plain and simple."
"where's the end though. my point is that the list of skills you want to remove is completely arbitrary, i wasn't trying to say that you thought all skills should be removed, i was trying to show that there's no limit to where you stop removing skills to remove the inconvenience of training them.and, yes, there are people who do specialize and make their living irl based on their ability to design buildings to fit lots of people efficiently, they're called architects. there are also people who make their living off of getting people into said buildings and keeping them happy and entertained while they're there. furthermore, noobs shouldn't be looking to start a corp. leave starting corps to the more experienced players who know what they're doing, noobs starting corps just leads to them coming on the forums complaining about being wardeced by older players and saying there's nothing they can do about it."
"dude, the skills differentiate those who are willing to invest the time in them from those who would half ass it. and nariya kentaya isn't trolling, she is making a legitimate point. you don't see the point in these skills but that doesn't mean there isn't a point in them. i'm sure fish don't see a point in the existence of air, that doesn't automatically make it unnecessary."
"this has been posted before somewhere, i'm sure, but i thought it would be right to bring this topic back.yes, it's about gas cloud harvesting. an area of mining that, at the beggining, its only point was to produce those risky boosters. now, it's needed for t3 ships manufacturing, which makes it more desirable (the gases extracted for this use are very worthy). we have our modules and skills, but nothing else. many people wants more love to it so i'll collect the ideas here.i vote for a dedicated ship for this task, along with new modules such as gas strip extractors, mining upgrades, rigs, etc. and other uses for the gas. i know it has been voted for, even ccp (i've heard about converting the procurer to this role), but i think it hasn't to be forgotten. personally, as a miner-explorer, i'd love to do it in an industrial way, and still having to find it.about its locations, i think they're ok: a rare ore type hidden for explorers to find. if only it was a it more expensive in the markets... i only think that the gas clouds themselves, although they're variated and beautiful, are a bit small and repetitive. could they be more randomized, in shape and size, since it's gas? asteroids have a randomized size and shape, so why not gas clouds too?i've been thinking about the following:-> the ship: as jack karrigan said, a dedicated industrial ship for this should come from ore. folowing they line of naming their ships after fish, it could be called 'lamprey' (because it vacuums xd) and have the following: - 6 high slots: used for the max of 5 extractors and 1 probe launcher. this means 5 turret slots that could be normal slots if there were 'strip gas extractors' or such that wouldn't be turrets, so this ship wouldn't be nerfed with weapons and battle ships could still fit the usual extractors. the probe launcher could be removed, but this ship totally relies on exploring for its role. - 3 medium slots or such, for scanners and such. - 2-4 low slots, for cargohold expanders and mining upgrades.as many ore ships have a tech 1 and a tech 2 variants, this ship could have both too, being the tech 2 one made for un-safe places as exhumers are.as an industrial ship, it should have a good cargohold (in the thousands of m3 line), and a decent drone bay, since this ship will probably be in dangerous places more than exhumers.moreover, it would be made for lowsec and wormholes, so it could get a +2 bonus to warp strengh like the skiff.so, this ship would need the 'ore industrial' skill to be flown. it could have skill bonuses to gas compressing, or cpu use of gas harvesters, or such.visually, this ship could be like any other ore ship (industrial looking) but could have one or two big cylindrical containers that could be slowly spinning, or spherical ones. take inspiration from real-life gas carrier sea-ships? maybe a vertical looking?-> the skills: the gas harvesting skill allows to use one aditional harvester per level, which is an original way of making this mining's mechanic different from the other ones. mining asteroids works by increasing the yield and ice mining by decresing the harvesters cycles; gas harvesting could work by reducing the base volume of each gas unit. this is because gas can be compressed, while rock and ice can't. this could be an original way of increasing the quantity of extracted ore, untouching the yield or the cycle, and could determine mining upgrades and rigs. each level of 'gas compressing' could reduce the base volume of each gas unit by 5-10-20%.-> the upgrades and rigs: basing on the previous idea of compressing the gas for lesser volume, there could be 'gas compressors' or such that decrease the base volume by 15% or such, or decrease the cpu needs for gas extractors.if you have more ideas to post, or if you like this (or not), please post here/vote so this won't be forgotten.edit: added some old topics about this, containing interesting ideas."
"i agree with a dedicated gas mining ship, and a dedicated exploration ship.as seperate entities.as gas is more of an industrialist thing, said ship should be manufactured by ore or dcm.and exploration should be manufactured by soe or soct. other than that, good suggestion. +1i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"makes a certain ship from star trek come to mind, it was atlas class or something, eitehr way, it's front end was a giant shield and glass (or whatever technobabble they used instead of glass) bubble with the bridge in the center of the bubble.basically its role was to fly into nebulaes and other anomalies and siphon the amterial into the bubble where the bridge scanners could analyze it and determine tis composition.perhaps a similar design for an eve gas-mining ship? honestly i would think a bubble-like container visible on the outside of the ship would make sense because were talking about gases insetad of ores."
"+1 gas mining sucks in a non-dedicated ship and i would love some upgrades that make it even more worthwhile"
"double post, my fault."
"this. imo shortened timer > more clones."
"this is the problem in a nutshell. generally in a software context, if a human can use it, the macro can do it better. my understanding is that most eve macro's don't even use the client except as a method to access the data stream. once the basic mechanics of the game are known to the writer, they simply tell the bot what to look for in that data stream and 'voila', you have a bot that 'plays' the game perfectly, barring human inteference. in summary: ccp needs to ban the bots, and not punish legitimate players for their years of failing to try seriously to stem the problem.and when they catch a botter: 1st time - 2 week ban, all botting assets confiscated. 2nd time - start looking for a new game (all accounts)."
"remove any isk faucet from null sec, and remove most any 'stuff' that is not isk from high sec. there, everyone happy.necessity is the plea for every infringement of human freedom. it is the argument of tyrants; it is the creed of slaves. - william pitt"
"this is a very bad idea. i will say it again...high sec should not have to rely on null sec for pos fuels."
"nullsec already has the best of everything (isk-wise) .... nerfing hisec or wh's will do nothing to attract players.buffing nullsec is not the solution to improve the playability of eve ... a simple glance at the number of players choosing to live in hisec vs. nullsec shows that ... most players simply will never want to live under the boots of a huge nullsec alliance ... they simply won't .... it's not what they play the game for and never will be.sure, improve nullsec mechanics for those who love it there (a small % of the playerbase) - they deserve a good game too.but your \"average\" players just want more immersive content .... we should have hundreds (not 5) epic arcs ...new players should never be confused about \"what to do next\" after the tutorials ....nerfing hisec will only drive players away from the game ... it's not going to fix nullsec."
"the only concern i'd have with more epic arcs and the like is sliding the game more towards a theme park than a sandbox, but i like the way you're thinking."
"my thoughts from the \"omg wtf no hisec ice\" thread in s&i... from a \"is it profitable\" standpoint, removing ice from hisec is a good thing. too damn many bots as it is.[:twisted:](yes, i know null has bots, and low probably does too ... but meh)now, if ccp goes through with it, here's what we'll see happen:1. the buyers will cry2. the botters will cry3. enterprising corporations and alliances will make bank as they move to lowsec to obtain the ice.now, from looking at dotlan, i haven't seen a single lowsec system that has ice without a station. that's a \"bad thing\" in the \"safety\" department, as it's nearly impossible to kick someone out of a system with npc stations...if they're really going to go through with this, i'd like to see ccp move at least some of the \"permanent\" ice fields (assuming there will still be \"permanent\" belts... regardless of whether or not they can be depleted) to deeper lowsec that doesn't have a station (i.e. not right next door to hisec). if it's going to be in grav sites (and a relative ***** to find... ), then it would be nice to get some of the nullsec variants as well..."
"i hope this has been posted before...because if it has it's because its a good idea. so...perpetuum is a pretty crappy game. graphically it sucks and the combat is pretty lame not to mention it is pretty much an eve ripoff. no really...you can't play perpetuum and not see the blatant similarities to eve. there are however a few things that it \"improved\" on that i believe should be adopted. one of my alliance buddies pointed out a couple to me and i agreed.1: static noise. by this i mean targeting restrictions based on the number of ships on grid. the more ships in the \"blob\" the longer it takes to target an individual ship. in perpetuum it is explained by the nearby ships creating noise from their targeting systems that counteract or slow the targeting of other ships.2: aoe ship explosions. something i brought up on the old forums that seemed rather popular with a few nitpickers. ship explodes and the resulting explosion causes damage to all the other ships in the area. bigger the ship...bigger the explosion and damage. of course the easy way to do this is to make the ship explosions work just like missile explosions for velocity, damage and whatnot.3: sp accumulation to a point pool. instead of setting your skill to train and having to worry about changing that skill at a certain time and blah blah blah...instead just have all your sp go into a pool of points that you can specifically assign to whatever skill you want to when you want. the mechanics for this are already in the game as evident when learning skills were removed and the points refunded. there you go. 3 things perpetuum does as ****** of a game as it is that ccp can learn from for eve."
"the sp pool thing would never work in eve. however having ships explode deal aoe damage to each other would cut down on capital blobs like no tomorrow. and by blobs i don't mean 10-20 carriers, i mean 30-50 mother ships. you lose 3 mother ships and suddenly your super dense blob is all at 50% hp. also on idea #1, the static noise is one of the only reason in large sale battles idea 2 works. by limiting locking time and having ships deal massive aoe damage to each other base on size of ship and size of ship taking damage you have an awesome combo that focuses combat down to smaller fights.you would also super increase the usefulness of the titan laser by inadvertently making it into an aoe weapon. target carrier, press fire. kill carrier, carrier deals aoe damage to the 40 carrier blob they just shoved into the system to fight your smaller fleet."
"aoe explosions should be restricted to low sec and below. otherwise this would open up yet another can of worms..."
"i will concede that point. why wouldn't an sp pool work in eve? so long as you have a subscription you gain points and apply them when you want. not very hard at all...does away with the complaints of not being able to change skills outside eve."
"thiink really hard, i'm sure youll figure it out.but really, the problem that comes is this...let's say you cant afford a skillbook, well, right now that emans you can't train the skill until you can afford it. in your system, they can just grind isk for a while adn the second they can afford it, boom put points in lvl 5, basically meaning a player can in essence, get the sp for every skill in the agme without ever actually having to afford it, basically pre-training a skill before you even buy it. which is bad."
"yeah...i can't see that as actually being a problem as that really only applies to newbie pilots anyway. anybody playing more than 3 months should be able to easily make the isk needed to fund any skillbook purchase in which you could do that. even still it means they are not applying the skills to some other skill while they wait anyway. yeah...i don't see that as being a valid problem at all."
"i play perpetuum and know the game's strengths and weaknesses pretty well. the usual stupid \"it's an eve clone!\" arguments don't work well on me - the last time i checked, you couldn't hide behind stations nor even planets in this game but los is big there - tracking means nothing there but is a huge consideration here - skillpoints earned real-time is similar but 1ep/min and no way to enhance/improve building up is a bit different than \"remaps\" with implants... so on and so forth.\"exploding ships\" - in perp this isn't a major issue though even there you had mitigation due to terrain being discussed (that los issue above? it does not exist here). in eve it would be. alpha kills in perp are extremely rare but common as dirt in fleet ops here. you aren't running a 1,000 ship battle with such mechanics and exploiting it would be extremely easy. simply run a ship into an enemy fleet and alpha it with your fleet.it sounds neat but in reality it would cripple a lot of pvp in the game.the sp pool has issues. why log into the game at all if you want to just build up skills? why even look at the game at all just to build up? there is no expending the sp until you feel like starting to use that char, or sell it.\"static noise\" - how does this work with drones? there's nothing like them in perpetuum yet they are a core/key weapons system in this game. it might work to help out some situations of vast numbers but 500 or less ships shouldn't be crippled unless you want to shut down *all* major fleet operations in the game.ps: graphics don't suck in perpetuum on many machines. my old machine it looked great on. my new computer - they look a bit washed out. one is an xp box, the other an up to date win7 box with high end graphics card. it appears the engine renders better with older systems. the why of it, i have no clue, i just spot it very easily if i use my old computer."
"the goal of \"static noise\" is a laudable one -- change the fleet size/power curve so that after a certain point, bringing more ships to a fight doesn't buy you much advantage. imho a change that achieves this is the only long-term solution to blobs and lag, because \"fleets expand to fill the lag available\".that said, the proposal is overly simplistic, because it's based on # of ships on a grid. that means it hurts everyone on grid equally, so the effect is neutral, and it does not achieve the desired goal. for it to do that, it must impair the side with the big fleet (more, or bigger ships) more than the side with the smaller fleet.the naive solution to this is keeping track of things on an individual ship level and generating a noise map of the grid, so that regions with lots of tightly packed ships are disadvantaged more. however, without some very clever programming and simplifying approximations, this is not computationally feasible.back when i ran for csm5, i illustrated this issue with a proposal that ships only be able to target the closest \"n\" ships (be they friend or foe). so if you were in the middle of a big blob, most or all of the ships you could lock would be friendly, and the extra combat power you could provide would be limited. this is, of course, only one of a large number of possible game mechanic tweaks that might address the issue; which one is best is up to ccp to decide.but sooner or later, they're going to have to change combat mechanics to introduce some sort of fog of war at the grid level.ps: i do like the idea of chain-reactions of exploding ships."
"artificial blob limiters will never work unless they are made so horrible to work within that people rage-quit on the spot. much better to cook up mechanics that encourages not blobbing .. fielding ones entire extended family should remain an option for the neanderthals. do we really want an aoe weapon usable by day 1 characters? i'd much rather have a kamikaze option where i fill my hold with explosives and can do damage to another's hull directly by ramming at full speed.the sp thing can be done by letting the points added to the pool be as if no implants are used (or lower even) and setting a restriction on the pool of 3-4 days worth. point would be to expand on the queue concept while making sure that logging in remains the optimal solution."
"also.. i don't like the idea of a single artificial limit (noise) which make fights less fun with growing size.rather than one limit with big impact i would suggest multiple mechanics which discourage blobbing (speak: are specific against blobs independent of the fleetsize) and make somewhat sense from the \"immersion standpoint\".(i posted this already somewhere)example based on formations:fleet bonuses only apply if you fly in certain (but reasonable loose) formations, blob gives no bonus at all (add the noise penalty here if you like) - wings should stay together - frigate specific formations (v, x..) give speed/sensor/agility boosts - formations for slow ships, like wall or line give defensive/offensive boosts - delta/square/star formation for logistics - blob gives you nothingadvantages: - very(!) large fleets will require more than one fc (sub-fcs) for optimal results - blob is discouraged - larger fleets require some kind of strategy (attack from both sides etc..) - new feature for the marketing departmentsure this is not trivial to implement but this would be a nice mid-term goal imo.as good start (results first!) ccp could restrict the noise penalty only for blobs (to many ships in one place) and ignore the formation feature completely. having a grid wide penalty would be rather suboptimal since it would affect the smaller fleet too (in a fleet vs blob battle).edit: but yeah the noise idea is quite cool :)"
"the only mechanic i'd like to see moved over from perp is their system/outpost control scheme that rewards a constant presence in the system.artificial blob limiters won't work imo. its better to create incentives within the sov system that encourage multiple fleets."
"hey wait a minute... they already have the ability to refund sp...what if instead a nice balance was to say.... give you half your lowest sp gain per minute, as sp you can put into anywhere?so you still want to train skills, and it rewards you for keeping up with it, but if you miss a day, you only miss out on half of the sp you could of had?you know, that or get eve gate working to the point where we can just change skills online."
"i like the noise idea alot, still signature radius should count for something, this would encourage to fleets to bring hundreds of cheap frigs in alts as nothing more that static noise generators. if there was a way to implement it without abuse factors being painfully obvious it would be cool though+1"
"oh hey look, another thread about \"fixing\" lowsec that is full of people who spend no time there and haven't the first clue as to what they're talking about. yay!"
"this wouldn't buff lowsec at all... it just means i wuld spend more time in highsec farming lvl 3s to get the isk to pew pew in lowsec casually.almost everyone in eve has an end goal to pvp either in high, low, or nullsec. to reach that goal most people want a huge cache of isk to throw away... making all lvl 4 missions in lowsec would just mean it takes longer to get to that goal."
"1. bounties may only be placed on characters who have a - 5.0 security status or worse. in life, bounties are placed upon the worst criminals, not law abiding citizens. people with a positive security status should not be allowed to have bounties on them. - 5.0 locks people out of high sec mostly, as you are seen as a criminal in the eyes of all faction navies.2. bounties degrade over time. if you don't undock or log in every day, your bounty degrades. if you don't have a negative security status change every 2 or 3 days, your bounty degrades. any positive sec status change degrades your bounty. getting -4.9 clears your bounty completely.3. no one from the same corp or alliance may place or claim a bounty on another member. no one in npc corp may have a bounty placed upon them, nor may they claim a bounty.since the launch of capt. quarters, eoh has been using the bounty system as a way of advertising their \"game\". they have over half the top bounties on the list which means they're constantly coming up on the in game tv. most of the other top bounty players have not undocked from a station or logged on in weeks. i've been watching for them and i know this to be true.the bounty system is currently a worthless feature as is but it has real potential. with a better mechanic, this is something that could interest more people in pvp as there is a real profit if you succeed. it also keeps the majority of bounties in low-sec. 0.0 players usually have a high security status because of ratting and complex running."
"sure thing, mate.yes to sleeper's ai for all npcs. at least a derived version of it. no way to sleeper's specs for all npcs, tho. our dumbass npcs act like this:1) looking for target....2) found target? 3) attack target!the end.it's 100% predictable and therefore lame as ****."
"give the wh ai to level 4 and 5 rats but leave the rest."
"considering how many times i've lost kills because someone \"accidentally\" lost their internet connection, forget being nice to people who legitimately lose it and make them face the ~consequences~"
"i've wanted name changing for so long. take all of my isk, put a big flag stating what my previous name was, anything, just let me get rid of the awful name my (other) character has"
"+1i've dabbled in probing once or twice. it's extremely unhelpful when underskilled and the sigs are moving 40 au's a second while i'm desperately trying to scan them down."
"sigs don't actually move at all. thats just your skills causing discrepancies in your scan results. this thread is referring to the actual sig id's...(abc-123)...changing every day even though the sig itself is the same and in the same place."
"i think he's referring to ships... but still.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"lol...yeah...either way...still a little off."
"i just want a pretty place to attend to."
"-9001out the door with you and your cheap proposal."
"0.0 isn't for everybody. yes many people enjoy going out there, building empires and shooting thousand man fleets, but this is one part of the game populace and not the be all end all of what eve is about. many people (myself included) spend a large chunk of their time in empire doing empire stuff. be it market warfare, mining, mission running, or just goofing off flying space ships with some friends. not everybody wants to play the cutthroat version of the game and maybe you just want to log on for a bit, do a couple fun things, and then log off. this is a legitimate and fun way to play eve. with that out of the way i'd like to open some dialogue on what you'd like to see empire game play look like and how things can be improved from what they are now. i'm not looking for ways to make you super rich mining veld in a .7 system, i'm looking for ways to make the game fun when you don't want to invest your time and effort in the space conquest game. the empire part of the equation has been neglected for some time and while the csm is full of people who mostly live in 0.0, this is but one part of the overall story.my vision: i want to see a legitimate career path for those who want to live in empire and enjoy eve-online. i want to see empire activities iterated upon properly and i want there to be a plentiful array of entertainment options available for those who want to make their empire in empire, and not lowsec/nullsec.the purpose of this thread is to gather data. i want to hear what you feel an empire career should be like. what have you experienced that you enjoy? what pisses you off?with ccp's recent change to focus on flying in space we have a unique opportunity to advocate for resources to improve the core game play and i intend to capitalize on this a bit to press for empire game play changes. tell us what you would like to see itt (in this thread).i am not going into this with any specific agenda. the sky is the limit, i'm looking for ideas."
"i think the largest problem with highsec is mostly ui issues. considering allot of people run micro manufacturing process i think ui and pos changes would be a big help. the time i spent in highsec was mostly doing invention and market things, but i just got burned out on the poor sni interface.just small changes such as setting multiple invention jobs would go a long way to making highsec life more enjoyableon the other hand pvp wise nuet repping is a bigg issue"
"well exactly what i though.hope that what ccp is doing currently on pos will be nice, give us this devblog quickly...would like the agents never send you to lowsec also, i tried some missions not long ago, and was surprise with all the changes that happens to them these last months, agents are still bothersome about sending us on low sec sometime...ps : i wonder how many posts will be \"if you want to help high sec, make yours corpies stop killing us !\""
"jesus ******* christ! hell must have froze over and satan is giving free sleigh rides! did vile rat actually just post a useful and constructive thread? i think i need to go home and prepare for the apocalypse. i see nothing wrong with high sec as it currently stands aside from a bounty hunting system that flat out does not work and the fact that suicide ganking and piracy are far too easy as professions since they are basically always a win for the pirate and pure loss for the victime with absolutely no true reprecautions to the pirate or ganker.we have had hundreds of threads on how to fix those issues however."
"point of interest --> lowsec (0.4 - 0.1) is still \"empire\".i'd like to see lowsec revamped more than hisec. hisec is *fine* in its current state, and lowsec is nothing but a wasteland. 0.0 has the security of an alliance, hisec has the security of concord coupled with the fact that since there are so many hisec areas that are relatively devoid of people (or at least the \"pro pvp\" crowd that preys on \"industrial corp #2343451\").here's the rub though -- you cannot make lowsec more \"easily\" profitable for a solo pilot -- but there should be incentives to go there beyond \"let's gatecamp and gank who we can\". most of the trouble is in the fact that you get one or two newer players in a corporation of new players who have gone to lowsec for a mission/to see what's up/whatever. they tell everyone else \"omg stay out of lowsec, you'll get killed in 2 sec flat!\" and everyone else listens, without checking for themselves. perhaps this can be fixed through use of the tutorials -- have a mission where you have to web/scram the npc so your (npc) fleetmates can kill it. teach people a few of the things that they need to survive in the inevitable war or lowsec roam, and maybe they won't be so quick to jump on the bandwagon that everyone's out to grief them (well... we can hope).in addition to this, educating people that this is not your typical mmo is also key -- corporations have downsides; they're not just social clubs (like in that \"other mmo\"). so, if you're not familiar with the game so much, making \"industrial corp #2343452\" is a really bad idea. there needs to be a way for these industrial-minded corporations to draw in the pvp guys (and keep it \"fun\" for the pvp guys) or for the pvp guys to have a few miners/industrials around (and let them have their fun)..."
"i would really like to see pos changes as in the 'flogging a dead horse' forum. not exactly high sec only, but it would certainly make life easier (and something resembling a real station would be impressive). a genuine bounty hunting option - the current system is too open to abuse and pointless to follow as a profession.insurance payouts for gankers need to be looked at."
"i odn tlive in hisec (obviously) anymore, but wardec mechanics are a bunch of ass and insurance should be nullified if concord id on your lossmail.."
"+1also i lulz'd a bit at the suggested name, \"lamprey\". x3"
"i like the premise but i think that a cycle time bonus would be fine without going into compression. also, why does it need protection from deadly gas clouds? do k-space gas clouds explode? fullerites don't. or are you referring to mercoxit, which if mined has a chance of releasing a cloud of toxic gas (although i believe that mercoxit itself is not a gas)."
"hmm, it's true that k-space gas doens't explode, but w-space gas does. as taken from evelopedia ("
"yes, you're wrong. fullerite clouds are non-damaging. now, there's the damaging cloud you can find at isolated core deposits, and i'm not sure on the mercoxit ones... but the regular wormhole gas clouds are just big, bright shiny fluffy pillows of wormhole love."
"fixed, thank you and sorry for the mistake :)"
"hmm... could this be the birth of the \"jumping jack flash\" class of ships?"
"havn't encoutnered a gas cloud yet that didn't cause damge....except mercoxit.techincally its not a gas cloud.but flying the incorrect ship with incorrect skills or tools will cause mercoxit ore to spit damage clouds at you...that's for sure.(ie: fly a skiff and be propperly skilled to fix that problem)the only time there's ever been a hazzard in gas clouds is rats or sleepers..thats about it.course there may actually be a gas cloud out that hits...yet to fnid one tho. not to mention \"weather hazzards\"we should have a gas mining dedicted ship...would be nice.i always end up dragging out a cyclone or similar ship to pull it off with decent rat defenses.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"eh... rereading your post, did you get the \"did\" and \"didn't\" mixed up?"
"whoops...i think?course its monday morning and i'm juggling work and keeping my brain awake.gas clouds don't cause damage.the environment they are in however do at times.that's what i was trying to say.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"this plans draws from all ready suggested ideas. almost none of them are mine exclusively. this is the single thread, which could bind low sec and walking in stations together. the aim of ccp should be to keep all of eve a vibrant dynamic universepvp is the most exciting draw of eve.1. boosters are desirable because they improve combat in pvp.2. faction warfare should be the driving dynamic behind low sec3. pirates will have militias and will be able to compete as a third party for low sec systems within their normal empire stomping grounds.4. all though you can still earn faction loyalty points any where lp awards will only be able to be redeemed in these contested systems. this will increase the desire for players to claim these systems for whatever faction they want this reward from.5. faction warfare will now have a big impact on systems. after a system has been flipped(all the bunkers claimed) it enters a reinforced state where it cannot be contested until after down time. after down time all though station models remain the same, the companies residing in them will change hands ex: gallente factions <->caldari factions<->guristas/serpentis(depending on region.) 6. when pirates claim a low sec system ladar(gas) sites will begin spawning in that system. considering that agents for pirates will appear in these locations that means they will have access to faction lp rewards needed to produce boosters.7. boosters will now become racial. in other words each pirate faction will not only poses the blue prints to only certain boosters, but will also spawn the necessary gas clouds to create them when a low sec system is flipped to that racial pirate faction.8. boosters will be bought in player owned establishments in a sort of <U+FFFD>off the grid<U+FFFD> transactions at player owned establishment sockets.9. under world agents will be present in station environments only. by visiting with them you can gain standing with an opposing faction again ex: gallente or guristas, if your caldari with out causing damage to your sec status or standing to your own faction. this evens out the playing field for people who only want to mission and don<U+FFFD>t want to fight. if a mission runner has a blockade-runner and has good standing with gallente caldari and guristas, no matter who controls your faction lp reward center you can claim something there whether being controlled by caldari, gallente or guristas(regional eg). from a lore standpoint it also emphasizes the fact that capsuleers really serve no ones interest but their own.10. underworld missions will have risk associated with them. the activity could risk them getting stopped by other players (like being marked for smuggling contraband). or it must be done under a certain time limit. if a mission is accepted and then failed. failure could result in a loss of your own faction standing or a direct hit to your security status. this mission should have good pay out for lp and isk again more risk vs reward. you gain access to these missions by talking to any agent from the faction your interested in who would normally just give the default response to people who don<U+FFFD>t have enough standings to give missions too, in addition to the default response the agent will direct them to a <U+FFFD>good friend of theirs who if (the player) is still interested in helping, (empire/pirate faction), should talk to(under world agent name) at station (x) in system (x). you cannot access underworld agents via the agent finder.11. for the underworld missions, with smuggling, if contraband is captured from these missions you should be able to turn it in to specific agents to gain standing with their factions. ex: you catch some one smuggling slaves in minmitar space. you tag them and destroy. when your friends show up you bring them to a minmitar agent who <U+FFFD>frees them<U+FFFD> giving you lp for minmitar. this gives people in empire reasons to police lanes because there will be real rewards.12. militias should be able to complete bunker sites like an incursion site with a similar pay out system but with faction specific lp. this will drive competition over systems. a system can<U+FFFD>t be claimed until its after down time and every bunker is flipped. this means opposing militias could flip bunkers while other militias flipping others in the same system. once a faction has claimed all the bunkers they claim the rewards, and the system is set to flip after down time.the goal behind this is not just to make low sec dynamic and desirable but also to give people who live in empire a reason to go to low sec. if the only location to redeem faction rewards is at certain locations in low sec they will go there to get them increasing low sec traffic. once again giving pirates something to pirate.this is an attempt to increase band density. lets say empire, low, and null sec are giant bands in the universe. currently empire and null sec are dense with people fighting, missioning, industrial<U+FFFD>ing<U+FFFD>ing. and low sec for the most part is empty. this should not be the case. eve is a vibrant thriving digital world, and each of the major bands should have their own flavor and community residing with in them.there also should be unique draws from each to each other. empire will want to claim their just rewards in lowsec. people who fight over low sec will learn to a degree what it takes to claim a system in null sec, people in null sec will want boosters from lowsec: and of course worm holer<U+FFFD>s are just goofy. people in empire will want to police space lanes leading to more pvp in empire. from what i've state you can come up with lots of stuff too."
"clueless. absolutely clueless.what will really happen is this. ice fuel prices will spike. as a result, everything produced from pos's in high sec and wormholes will spike. smaller corps will find that it's no longer affordable to maintain a pos in high sec and wormhole space and will fold. many of those people, having had the sand removed from their sandbox, will leave eve. some corps may take a shot at ice mining in low. however, after a few ganks, they'll give up and go back to high and mine rocks. prices will continue to escalate. forget about being able to afford a tengu unless you're in one of the null sec mega-alliances. it's simply a game-breaking idea that will eventually drive people out of eve. people aren't in low or null for a reason. they don't like it. taking ice from high won't suddenly make them like it. if they can't afford to survive in eve the way they want, they'll go. it's an incredibly stupid idea, and whomever at ccp first thought of it should be embarassed."
"within the first three months this would certainly happen, but probably not as black as you paint it.longterm, i have to disagree. as soon as the price of ice-products reaches a certain point, it will be really lucrative to mine ice, like mercoxite a few years ago. players are adaptive.they will find ways if they can make a profit at the end. lowsec players will find that protection racketeering pays more than ganking. nullsec corps will suddenly consider (ice) mining players. highsec players will form consortia to mine ice and have protection. small corps will ninja-mine ice.if there is isk to make, players will do it, but ice is so darn cheap that it is senseless to invest even in the skillbook."
"oh, it would be worse. much worse. you're completely leaving human nature out of the equation. look, you and i both know, without any reasonable doubt whatsoever, that there's a carebear portion of eve that prefers to move at a slower pace. they make their isk slower, like their risk lower. these, for the most part, are the ice miners. maybe, just maybe, some of them would try low sec ice if it were gone from high, but not many. not enough to meet current demand. of those that do, how many do you think would last more than one or two mack ganks? not many. they'll be back in high in no time, and will simply go back to nibbling rocks.supplies will plummet, and you'll have the survival of high sec and wormhole pos's becoming solely dependant on null sec (and to a lesser degree low sec) ice. this is a recipe for failure. high sec pos's won't be making enough to afford fuel, or the added costs will be too great to justify the time and effort. wormholes will suffer greatly. as it is, we have to periodically venture into empire to resupply, this happens maybe every few weeks. with a spike in fuel prices, smaller corps will find that buying a couple weeks or a months worth of fuel has eaten all their profits and more... they'll wind up failing. the larger ones, the ones with a full and healthy t3 production chain going... they'll need to recover the fuel cost losses with the only things they have to do so with... t3 ships and subsystems.it's clear that removing ice from high would have massively detrimental effects that would ripple throughout all areas of eve. high sec and wormholes suffer greatly. research takes a blow. industry takes a blow. t3 products... well, if you want to buy a t3 in the future you better be quite prepared to cough out some serious isk. probably so much you won't fly it anyhow. your little pipe-dream about how the high and low sec bunnies will all come together as one and mine low sec ice under the rainbows and nebulae is just that, a pipe-dream that fails to reflect on human nature and reality. oh, and one last side effect... people that have had their high and wh livelihoods crushed by such a change... well, you can't take the sand out of their sandbox and expect them to go play in sandboxes they have no interest in. they'll simply look at their empty box and go home."
"predictions as this is reading the tea leaves anyway. could happen either way, everyone has stated valid views so far.human nature works both ways. surely some will go back and nibble rocks, for the others this change would bring a little eve back to eve.so some players and producers quit. then the t3 ships get more expensive of course. so what? they aren't cheap anyway and were expensive before. they will skyrocket but soon there will be someone who has access to ice or the money and will be able to reach the break even point with a wh-pos.i still believe that the majority of the players adapt. well there are some unfortunates, which have their cozy gamestyle broken but thats whats eve."
"some of us aren't content with the thought that wormholes would be pushed from a mostly disparate groups of smaller corps and alliances into a place where only a few of the largest survive. it's too much like that lesser empire null. by the way... those people quitting that you're so \"so what\" to? they're cash is just as good as even the most hardcore null sec pilot. probably better... they're less likely to be buying plex and more likely to be paying directly. if ccp is in agreement that it's ok to crap on so much of their subscriber base in order to benefit a few mega-alliances or null bunnies... well, the whole reaping and sowing expression comes to mind.let's hope hilmar is still listening."
"i'll say it again...removing ice from high sec is a horrible and stupid idea. the only reason anybody is asking for this is because they live in nullsec or lowsec and want to be able to make more money off of ice. in all the time i lived in nullsec i never saw anybody mining ice. they bought it from empire and hauled it in. nullsec and lowsec already have the ability to mine ice...there is plenty of it that goes unused every day. no reason at all to remove it from highsec other than to fill the pockets of large nullsec blocks."
"reviving thread only so to pee in your tea. it still makes absolutely no sense to shoot down an idea only because there is already a painfully long and convoluted process in place. if i had an eft option with a testing ground in game it would be an \"improvement\" to eve. and that is the whole point to these threads."
"high security systems aren't secure at all.myslef and friends of mine were recently attacked and ganked in high security systems, 0.6 and 0.8 systems, i propse that there be more penalties for a player with low or negative standing. (-5.0 and lower), when they enter high security space.concord police need to be more aggressive in their pursuit of these criminals, also if there are any unprovoked aggression (gank), the criminals should lose more than their ships. concord should be given the permissions to pod kill these criminals.there is also an old corp trying to re-make a name for themselves. they destroyed (ganked) our hulks and then they sent us a email telling us, if we don't pay for them not to kill us. they will not stop.email is here : subject: miner amnestyfrom: skeith oumis (goonwaffe a.k.a. goonswarm)sent:to: hello!as the financial director behind goonwaffe/test's current operations in gallente high sec, i thought you might be interested in our amnesty program for miners. we're currently extending this to a small group of miners to test the waters and see how things go.a full outline of the program can be found at"
"if you had bothered to research and do a little reading.you'd find this is a complete and utter waste of time.welcome to eve online.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i'm sorry you had such a negative experience. i realize it can be hard on some to replace ships lost in belts, and don't have the means to buy plex (i don't either, real life finances are pretty tight.) to that end, i think you should give some serious thought to taking mr. oumis up on his kind offer. you wouldn't want to lose another hulk, would you?if you have any questions, feel free to contact spookydonut in game, and he can assist you."
"this is a post to try and make this game a better experience for all high sec pilots.if i can<U+FFFD>t afford to replace my ship. how do you think i have the money (250 mil isk) to throw away ?? i have no interest in paying your corp any money of any kind. vultures is all you are.!! i wish you nothing but failure in your pursuit of personal pleasure at other's expense."
"i have to say...i think the \"hate goon\" atitude is seriously misguided and mob related.i'm increasindly finding it hard to hate goons based on the reasons people give.oh sure what they do is not necessarily nice...but then i've seen worse and most of which are not goons.go figure.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"\"hate-goon\" attitude?i have hate towards anyone that gets pleasure out of causing others grief. i feel the same way towards others that do this type of game play. others have \"ganked\" me, and i feel the same way towards them. this is not a goons bashing thread. i am getting tired of the so called \"high sec\" space being called \"secure\" when ccp allows this type of negative game play to go on. the only penalty they offer is the destruction of throw away ship.. wow !!how about making them pay by destroying their pod and all the implants in their heads!it's the whole human nature and breeding negativity i cannot stand. i could care less what goons do."
"this has to be a troll thread, no one can be this naive."
"naive? think about what you are trying to say... again, all i am trying to do here is fix a broken system, hgih sec space is only a fraction of the whole eve universe, if you want pvp. i'm sure there are alot of people that would love to entertain you...go!! have fun !!! leave the people that don't want anything to do with pvp alone !!"
"yes naive, the warning on the box, since day one, has always been the same. hi-sec is safer but not safe.so why do you think you are such a special snowflake not to play by the same rules and mechanics as everyone else?"
"a couple of thoughts: 1.) there is no such thing as pve and pvp areas in eve. any time you are undocked, you are vulnerable to attack. use the market, contracts, etc, and you are vulnerable to the scams and manipulations of other players. there is no shallow end of the pool here, only deep and deeper. 2.) what do you propose as \"stricter\" punishments? remember, there needs to be a balance between the risks you engage in and the rewards you can earn. -- transferable killrights that you can sell/give to another player?-- quicker response times in systems? -- harsher sec status penalties? -- prevention of the loss of your ship? 3.) why should a hulk pilot be able to mine an asteroid belt in 0.5 space without being molested?? are there other options available to you, that utilize teamwork or less efficient, beefier, insurable ships that will greatly decrease your chances of a loss, or even the magnitude of your losses shoudl they happen? why should a badger auto-piloting across empire be safe from molestation? are there other options in game, where they can utilize beefier, less efficient ships that can survive an attack, or are there other insurable methods to have your stuff moved so another is taking the risks? why should a mission runner be safe from being ganked? are there other options in the game, where they could sacrifice some efficiency to make them much less of a target, and perhaps even harder to kill? just because you can fly a hulk, and its the most efficient mining vessel, doesn't mean you should be using it in a risky situation. why should the risk to it in a 0.5 system be lowered/removed?"
"this describes literally everything you can do in eve.how many serpantis did you slaughter today, you monster?"
"i am not \"special\" why do you think that combat type players that have an advantage over others have the right to destroy ( gank) others with lesser skills?without any stif penalty?all i'm saying is there should be higher penalties for this action.like i have said before i'm an industry pilot. with little combat type skills. like i have also said, i have no intention on doing any pvp type of game play.how an i supose to defend myself from a seasoned combat pilot?oh well, as i suspected, i am trying to voice an opinion and view of a system i think should be changed. and all you are interested in is bashing people for their views."
"lol, players?? none.. npc's ?, several. lol...but i didn't kill any that didn't attack me first. make them stop attacking me first. i'll leave them alone."
"so let me get this straight grako...you'e been playing a little over a year...maybe two....and your just now figureing out that high sec space isn't as safe as you thought it was?you do realize these very same mechanics have always been this way *with minor adjustments...and i do mean minor* and your just now getting around to bitching about it?naive is an understatement.edit: ok maybe a ltitle longer than 2 years....but that makes it far worse than expected.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"this is an alt toon. i stopped playing for almost a year. due to this issue.i have not just started thinking about this. it has always been an issue of mine. as to gizznitt's post. my sugestions are posted in post #1. try reading it some time.i'm done here, all i'm trying to do is make suggestions on how to make it more balanced. and girzznitt. cooperation with more players only means the ganker's attack in greater numbers. it doesn't fix the issue.i am not saying stop it totally. just make the penalties harsher.please see post #1."
"they aren't supposed to be.my condolences.no.\"re-make\" themselves? this is pretty much the \"norm\" for goons. you should have seen what they did the last time they \"invaded\" high-sec (it was more damaging, caused more grief, and had much weaker reasoning behind it).here's the thing... eve is marketed as a single-shard universe where everyone can affect everyone else... for better or worse. non-consensual pvp (regardless of its form) is the \"enabler\" of this selling-point as it allows players of any stripe to actively go after those that negatively affect them whenever they feel they need to. and better yet, the rules of the game are flexible enough to allow you to be creative with the solutions to your problems (with the exception of using tactics/things that violate the eula).since your problem is that you are being \"attacked\" by people who seem to care less about the \"consequences\" of their actions (which i might also add, raising penalties on will not stop them from doing any of this) the onus is on you to alter your tactics and gameplay to preserve your self-interest. some things i just came up to assist in this include, but are not limited to...- scanning out gravametic sites. there are plenty of ores to mine out there and most gankers can't be bothered to bring a probing ship to scan you out. they're after \"easy\" prey.- tank your ship out more. yes, you will mine less... but i think mining less is a small price to pay in order make yourself a less appealing target compared to other people.- mine in t1 ships. again, you do mine less and you will not be able to defend yourself at all... but t1 ships give better insurance while t2 ships do not.- not being afk and being vigilant. if you see an orca acting \"strangely,\" local spiking, some strange messages appearing in the center of your screen, and/or couple destroyers on d-scan... it's time to gtfo."
"your context and presentation say anything but that.your obviously ticked off and want punnihsment to be harsher... you know what...the price tag they pay in the first place is plenty bad enough.especially if they try to recycle the toons.and they may not care about penalties like \"losing access to high sec\".don't like it?deal with it....by quiting or playing smarter.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"there are reasons people hate goons?i just hate because i feel like giving a reason when i let off a couple volley's in their direction and running away when they spam battleships at me. that, and most of my buddies flew under the drf banner (not me though) and currently many of them fly under atlas., but that is pretty much the extent of the reasons i have to hate goons.that being said, anyone who hates gons because they scam and play \"unfair\" is just in the wrong part of high-sec and/or needs to actually look at that contract before they accept the \"good deal\".at op: also, how the ehck do you get suicide ganked in high sec? i eman really? your just going to let somebody with a high-profile (read as very wealthy) null-sec corportaion ticker in a ship class commonly associated with ganking fly within 40km of you?wanna survive in high-sec? quit babying around in the high-population areas and run some low-sec roams......"
"again, a post that doesn't pay attention to the topic...i am not saying stop it intirely. just make it more even. how far or equal is it when:1. i lose a 250 mil ship. 2. the attacker loses a 100mil or less ship and flys away in their pod..let's make high sec ganking more challenging to players that want to pick on lesser skilled players.. all of your replys is what i expected, bashing me telling me i'm naive,, i don't understand the game mechanics.i'm older than most of the people that play eve.i understand the mechanics perfictly. that's why i'm posting they should be changed to make it more balanced.so fell happy about killing my ships.. other views. the people that gank in high sec. probablly can't survive in null or low sec. so they need to fell bigger by picking on the smaller, weaker players. school yard bullies..enjoy,bash me all you want. this is my final post.."
"the mechanics are already balanced, you are the one that let another unknown player get close to your ship (first mistake), which im guessing was utanked (your 2nd mistake), and did nothing before hand to try and escape either i woudl assume.the aggressor in a gank is already guaranteed to lose his ship, you are not, unless you are untanked and fall victim to alpha, but that is a mistake you should have learned to correct after your first week of play. forcing them to lose their pod is overkill, because thats trying to guarantee they lose more then you, you ebing the one who chose to fly an uninsured/untanked expensive ship out of the station docking bay."
"no it's not. it's for you to whine about people playing the game within the rules."
"other than obvious cheap shots...i must sheepishly admit that most of my \"anti-goon-isms\" where based on the angry mob.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"this is a space pvp simulator, you are safe no where. the criminal loses their ship, you receive your insurance money (because you are smart and have it insured) and you move on with your life and deal with the fall out, just like real life. welcome to eve. space is a cold, lonely place... happy flying"
"on the noise - yea, it would make \"grid-fu\" damn near essential to working fleet ops decently. some upsides to this but also downsides - a game mechanic focus vs gaming focus -- need to \"shape the grid properly for this battle...\". adjusting the idea might work.that exploding ship idea \"sounds\" very cool. i remember thinking how it was awesome - then i saw how it worked and who it was used against...think about it this way - every \"younger char\" becomes a liability to your side being as they are the easier target to kill. sp prerequisites to joining organizations would soar to prevent the trash kills that hurt your gang. an alternative would be the \"fire ship\" model based upon self-destruct or the like. a weapon vs an effect but that's all \"side-bar\" stuff."
"it would work the same way bombs do. one bomb does about 30% damage to battleship and only 30% damage to frigates."
"this has one huge disadvantage, and that is that it penalizes long-range fleet compositions. as soon as you bring n+1 ships, you can not target anything from the enemy fleet, because the closest n ships to you are allies. meanwhile, a close range fleet can just warp on top of an enemy and hope that at least some of them will end up being closer than most of the friendlies.long-range ships are already disadvantaged enough in eve, they don't deserve another nerf."
"this would just result in sebo ahacs backed by newbie frigate spam ruling all 0.0 combat. battleships and capitals wouldn't have much of a chance.i will task mittens with implementing this immediately!"
"the entire point of visibility/locking restrictions is that it will force fleets to split up into smaller semi-independant units that have to maneuver around the battlefield and coordinate with each other to gain local advantage. granted, it would be a very different battle environment than the current one, with a much higher load on fcs and much greater roles for wc/scs, but imho it would be a much more interesting one.but also keep in mind that i made the proposal as an example of something that could be done, to illustrate the problem. there is a whole class of possible solutions, but sooner or later ccp has to pick one.and limiting visibility to the closest n ships -- or making it a function of distance and ship size, or whatever -- is something that can be implemented and tested quickly and easily in the client on sisi. it's basically putting a perceptual filter on the overview plus a little extra code to check for direct clicks on ships. only once you have something that is really promising do you start worrying about anti-cheat code on the server side."
"los is another issue all together. frankly it would be nice to see ships that are occluded by larger ships, objects or even stuff like gas clouds able to be unlockable. imagine a frigate that flys behind a battlecruiser while you have it locked and suddenly you lose lock and have to lock it again. or a battleship you lose lock on because it moved behind a carrier. this would also make asteroids, and stations have a tactical role greater than they do now.this would also make people freak out and qq to no end but hey...i think the more challenging the pvp is the better it is."
"i think the insurance system is a good thing, but need some change for ganker.i think if you get popped by concord, you should not receive any insurance. i can't drive my car with 200km/h in some other guys car i hate and then get a new car from my insurance ;)the problem is easy, ganking is to cheap. there are lot of ships that cant fit enought tank to survive a single gank ship (brutix or disco bs). highsec should be \"secure\" space, but if you fly a t1 hauler or a mining ship you are never safe.highsec ganking is of corse a part of this game and should never be removed or changed that it's impossible, if someone is too stuped and transport 10b of flex in a t1 frig, he deserve to die :pbut it should not be possible to gank a 200m mining ship, with a single t1 ship and make nealy no losses because insurance pays you ship. if insurance stop paying gankers, ganking will be more expensive and the ballance would be much better. you still can make much isk if you gank a weak ship with billion of isk in it.but new players whould be able to transport cargo of 100m in a t1 hauler and dont get ganket because the ganker will make huge profit of this."
"[quote=nurdra, if someone is too stuped and transport 10b of flex in a t1 frig, he deserve to die :p.[/quote]i am keen to loot someones flex when they drop it please.on a serious note, while no where is secure space, any lossmail that has concord on it should not pay out insurance at all, not even the uninsured amount you get. there is nothing wrong with ganking and hoping to get expensive loot but it should be at the risk of heavy losses."
"i've always said that any criminal act should result in voiding of insurance.but i stop there...no more no less.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"or easier solution that wont take up dev's time:1) stop flying uninsured ships yourself2) stop flying ships you can't easily repalce3) stop flying ships with no tank4) stop going afk outside of the station5) stop waiting for an enemy to attack you ebfore you warp out, honestly the second someone in a cheap combat ship appears on grid and starst moving towards youand big one here:6) stop flying mining ships by yourself, you wanna mine? get in a mining corp, because solo mining is the elast profitable thing in this game, at elast in a group with boosts you can somewhat increase the isk/minute."
"why not? there are faction cruisers and faction battleships. and they would be awesome ships. i think there is a need for one between the cruisers and the battleships and they could be based on current designs.after looking at the roles, attributes, fittings, and the prices of the current classes of standard, faction, and advanced battleships, and then comparing them against the current classes of standard and advanced battlecruisers, i think we could use these new ships based on the mid-level pricing they would be offered at alone. camo colored faction bc's. all it takes is a stroke of the programmers pen. you decide..."
"why not....would be cool to see a fleet issue bc's.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"bump, please support or offer ideas to help this become a concept worth ccp's time."
"it wouldn't be any profit to pod yourself if person1 sets a bounty on person2. then they can set up a \"bounty contract\" that is available to all those people who have trained/got sufficent standings to use the bounty hunter system. then person3 can accept the \"bounty contract\" and receive kill rights for a set time like 3 days or w/e ccp wants, after placing a nominal collateral fee. if the person3 kills person2, then person3 receives a portion of the bounty (like 80% or w/e). if person3 doesnt kill person2 in the required time then bounty contract goes back to person1 for resubmittal also, the amount of time could be set to a few days or a week or whatever your would like to purchase. perhaps we could set the \"nominal bounty fee\" to be like 5mil for 3 days, 10mil for a week or something to that extent. there still may be some flaws here to work out, but this is the reason its in the forums. (to get worked on) ok i got a brain fart now so i need the next nerd to chime in lol***possibly if the person1 placing the bounty could put up the fee to place a bounty, then deposit the isk that will serve as the bounty and make the \"bounty contract\" available to his aliance or corp only? or possibly set a \"bounty contract\" to a specific person just like we can with regular contracts. this would alleviate the ease of using an alt toaccept \"bounty contracts\" on your main account. *also, as proc said, perhaps there should be sec requirements for bounties. i.e. only those people with lower than -1.0 sec status can have a bounty set on them and only those with sec status over +1.0 can accept \"bounty contracts\" that would keep people that don't want to be innocent victums from getting bounties placed on them. if you dont pirate == you wont get a bounty placed"
"i like this one, minus the skill part.i seem to remember there being a topic that discussed this in the form of players issuing kill contracts that grant takers kill rights to their intended targets."
"have bounties set by players as they are at present.tie the payout to ship death rather than pod-killing to make it viable in empire space.cap the amount paid out for any one kill at half the value of the ship destroyed after platinum insurance (if eve-kill can estimate the isk value of losses with reasonable accuracy, so can ccp).if there's still money left in the bounty pot after the kill, it rolls over to be paid out the next time the target is killed.with the value of the payout for any one kill capped at half the actual isk value of the ship destroyed, it becomes impossible to game the system by killing yourself with an alt, since doing so will always lose you more isk than the bounty is worth."
"...huh. i think that might actually be a bounty system worse then the existing one. a token attempt to stop people from collecting bounties on themselves is laudable, but it's cancelled out by a number of bad moves.1: there's no reason to restrict bounties to unrepentant pirates; after all, career pirates and suicide gankers carefully micromanage their sec status to continue their piratical acts, and bounties could be a good way of going after them.2: there's no reason why bounty funds should degrade over time; otherwise, why would anyone contribute to them? heck, i could see arguments for bounties increasing over time, as the scc invests the bounty funds at a marginal interest rate to encourage the bounty hunters.3: there shouldn't be any way to shed a bounty that doesn't involve someone collecting on it, ever. merely ratting for a few hours should not be sufficient to undo the consequences of any action serious enough that other players put their money on the line to punish you for it.for somehow managing to propose a bounty system worse then the existing one, i rate this bounty proposal 1/5 stars."
"that would just lead to people putting big bounties on alts, then podding them periodically to reap the additional funds put in by the scc.in a game with alts and multiple accounts, there's no way to ensure that a high-priced bounty won't be collected by a friend or alt of the person with the bounty. since we also have near unlimited jump clones, you can't even count on the pod kill resulting in implant loss.due to game mechanics, bounties in eve will probably never be more then fluff (or a badge of courage)."
"no...all rats need wh ai...period."
"+1 makes missions more challenging, therefore more fun and will also encourage more team play in empire."
"i think maybe a % per 15 minutes that needs to be dealt for the timer to reset but i'll be honest i like the idea for the new system."
"totally agree with both points. to that end, remove the ewar immunity from supercaps immediately."
"first off, the helios issue: i would think standard protocol after this change will be for fleets to insure their shinys are all safe before evac system. if they can't go kick that helios off of you long enough for you to disappear, then that alliance doesn't deserve your ship.the pendulum before this change has very much been in favor of the log-offer. now its swing very much the other direction. but what real abuse will this cause? people are supposed to be careful about logging off with aggression. does this spell doom and gloom for those that crash or log off while aggressed... yes... but is that really a horrible thing? no... is it fair? given how the current logoff mechanics have been blatantly abused, i think this change is appropriate."
"this entire thread is based on a misunderstanding of the proposed mechanics you want to change./end thread"
"+1jita local needs to be cleared out of scam spammers."
"but... those aren't the same things at all.more ways to reporting isk spam emails is a good idea. on the flipside, nothing need be done to eliminate perfectly legitimate scams."
"i agree. and i'm not just talking about the scam mails, there's lots of mails that i get like this that are just junk that i'd love not to get.i don't care if it's legit or not, say something in chat or don't, but don't send spam about it, i get enough of that in my rl e-mail."
"add your cspa charge to high amounts to people who are not blue."
"as someone who signed up drunk and could't spell \"scottish\" at the time. i wholeheartedly endorse this product/service/proposaldont mind me, just touching your stuff."
"oh no, with this many positive comments i just don't know what to do! quick, someone post something negative that i can argue and deconstruct into obsolescence!but don<U+FFFD>t let my praise placate you -- stay active!"
"why not allow name change once per lifetime? if you made a mistake at the begging and choose some stupid number to your name because you weren't sure will you even keep playing why not give one time name change onlyas far as limitation goes, i would suggest1. you standing, sec status.... remain the same as they were before2. your new name is \" y aka old name\" for like 3 months and then it is just y (where y is new name)3. your name is changed on every list (watch list, contacts...) and notification is sent to those people4. you can't change your name if you have kill rights5. you can't change your name with negative sec. status6. you can change your name only once7. payment would be plex, 3000 aurum, 5$, 10$... don't care...and don't tell me about scamming, what could you possibly scam? do you remember names of scammers/gankers and rest? maybe you do for few of them, but there could always come somebody new, so that doesn't make difference, since you probably don't know every single of them on serverin rl you can change your name, but all your rep goes with it, if you need to go to jail, youll go to jail even after name change, so rep stays the same, maybe implement new tab with old name or write it down at employment history as name change from x to y.and yeah, one time name change would be used mainly by player who simply wish to change their name and keep sp, if somebody really wants to scam you or something, hell make alt and do it anyway. i don't see the argument against that, if you can change your corp, you could change your name as welloh yeah, and there should be rule against caps lock names :d"
"this has been pretty popular so far. maybe we can get a csm delegate to bring it up at the next meeting?"
"this thread isn't on the first page...this is a farce! any chance a dev or gm could sticky this thread? it is deserving of it. perhaps the csm could throw some weight around to get it stickied?"
"it is interesting to see how people would deny other people rewards for their effort."
"sorry.... easy street for sp's isn't going to fly here.try again later....if at all.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"free sp, can't support.aurum, sure. free nex items, sure.but no free sp.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"pos changes are on the agenda.bounty hunting is a tricky one, how do you make it so it can't be gamed? i know if somebody put a bil on my head i'd be the first to cash myself out with an alt."
"this isn't all just high sec stuff, but some are \"high sec-ish\" things.smuggling! hope that comes in as they had mentioned.more diversified production.more necessary raw materials, more minerals, more pi things, etc. make vertical business models more difficult by forcing time requirements across a greater scope of resource gathering activities and manufacturing activities. for example, a new mineral, that is needed as much as trit, and can be found all over high sec, but can not be mined from any existing ore, but a new ore(s) and perhaps only can be found in comments, system wide belts, etc where existing minerals can't be found.add components for t1 production similar to t2.capital market - stocks, bonds, etc.allow dreads/carriers in high sec, but can be aggressed by anyone at any time for any reason.the ol oort cloud idea. each system, high sec to null, has things beyond 200au from the local star. concord, customs agents, npc navy do not go out there. beyond 200au in every system is 0.0 rules. put belts out there, comets, planetoids, pirate npc stations, drug labs, 'homesteads'/personal pos, etc.necessity is the plea for every infringement of human freedom. it is the argument of tyrants; it is the creed of slaves. - william pitt"
"yes, and that is always the problem. i doubt if there will ever be a 100% foolproof system, as there is always some way around it.the best idea that i have heard to date is probably 'tradeable' kill rights. i.e. i can sell my kill rights to a mercenary for a sum, and they can claim the bounty on completion (pod kill naturally).whether that bounty should be open to all or just the person(s) purchasing the kill rights is debatable, however would certainly reduce the chance of abuse, particularly if reputable merc corps can claim the kill rights. obviously that would also create problems, however it might at least be a starting point in working out a solution.edit: pod kills would have to be allowable on targets with kill rights to make this work (once only for each 'kill right'). i honestly can't see a problem with that, however its something else for consideration."
"these are in no particular order, just as they occur to me.ui improvements, long overdue and good for anyone playing eve in anyway. make pi, manufacture and research less of a clickfest as a beginning. decent hisec wardec mechanics, current system is not good.get the bounty hunting profession working bounty hunting profession suggestion not ideal but a good starting point for discussion.remove ice belts and replace them with scannable sites such as depletable comets, would make ice mining a proper job.do something about mining to make it more interesting and harder to bot, been plenty of suggestions but no feedback or action.real smuggling mechanics, something to encourage blackmarket trade between hisec and losec.pos changes, been needed across hi, lo, null and wh space for a long time."
"the following is suggested as one of the ...and as a possible ... \"sports\" in the sense of ancient rome gladiator fights, rather than today's baseball matches. regular (permanent?) alliance-tournament-like events with ladder/rank list, betting and bookmakers (and yes, this will most probably involve limited access areas, deal with it).pain is weakness leaving the body"
"want this so bad."
"for the most part i do industrial stuff. manufacturing, occasionally invention and market activities in general.surprisingly the single most annoying thing for me is the mechanism for checking orders. it's a tiny tiny thing that really annoys me to hell and back: i have to go through my orders list and do \"right-click --> view market details\" for every single one. every line contains a \"info\"-button at the end, yet a double-click also shows the info window. can we please have the double click remapped to \"view market details\"? who uses that show info anyway?also the science slots on high-sec-stations should be taken a look at. they were scaled for a totally different amount of players, and this shows. i don't know what kind of queue-times are deemed \"ok\" but some types of slots (copy & me research) are just booked for months in advance...now, for he question on how the game is accessible to the occasional gamer.i would really like to have some at least remotely challenging combat activity for players older than 2-3 months. at that point l4s are starting to be quite easy to do. logging in for 1-2 hours just to do l4s is just boring, a mindless grind against enemies with the intelligence of a moth.we now have the sleeper/incursion ai, please use it! there is so much that could be done with that... currently the only combat/encounter-content are missions, and the only one paying well are l4s. i'm not counting unknown-exploration sites as they can be done in a (badly fitted) frigate (and are fine content for newer players), just like high-sec belt-rats. also both basically don't pay anything.where are the missions where i have to fight just a hand full of npcs but where the ships are similar in strength to a player ship? instead i get a mindless blob of npcs where i can tank 15 bs plus 15 bc with some frigs cruisers mixed in in a single player bs. the best tactic is usually to just sit there, wait until everything is dead, maybe crawl towards a gate 50km away... give us stuff that is closer to the way pvp works, smaller exiting engagements with strong enemies acting with more intelligence than just \"fly towards player, orbit and shoot\".give us missions where we don't know if the enemy will be long- or short-range fit, and where that actually makes a difference. where are missions designed for ships other than bs/hac/bc?there could be a stranded sip that desperately needs an engine part (given by agent) and need to be dropped off by me (ship acts as a container, dropping the part completes the mission). i can either go in with a cloaky frigate, but have to maneuver around debris form the fight/explosion/whatever to not be decloaked, or go with an interceptor and outmaneuver them or go in with an assault/faction frig and take them out. but 5-10 incursion ai based npcs (t1 player frig equivalents) are nothing trivial to fight. nothing bigger than a frigate can enter! this would be challenging and fun, allow for a variety of solutions and so on.how about missions that have a bunch of remote-repairing frigates and/or cruisers where you have to get them to break up the group to lower their tank or bring a (risky) gank fit. one way would be to have a structure nearby, shooting it would cause some to stop attacking you and start repairing the structure. be far enough away and you can take out the remaining group. or just have small fleets (frig/cruisers) with true support (logistics) which also warp out when you come to close (or aggress them) and warp back in after a while giving you a window to bring down one other ship. or you use the time to maneuver close to their warp-in-spot, allowing you to tackle them and stop them from warping out. or have a friend with an interceptor help tackle them (smal group activity! much smaller than incursion group requirements!)yes, there are the smallest incursion sites (scout), but those are clearly meant for newer players and pay next to nothing. also i personally can't do incursions that often (even though i like it) since i generally have to fly 20 jumps or so and then i'm outside of my regular region and can't adjust market orders. also getting an armor fleet together is just a pain - and i fly only armor, taking 2+ hours to form a fleet isn't a rare occurrence and might even be unsuccessful after that amount of time... it's clearly not an option for someone who just wants to play for an hour or two, some comparable solo content (maybe paying similar to l4s, so significantly below group-incursion-payouts) would be really nice and much appreciated!what is annoying me? too much can be done with bots (mining in particular), just remove belts completely and move all mining content either to exploration or at least in a way similar to anomalies (this could be done everywhere of course, might be less important in low-sec though). this can and should include ice!highsec war mechanics need to be fixed, but it will probably still end in station games anyway. mostly with 5+ neutrals repping and redocking whenever they want due to remote repping not causing an agression timer. this is a problem but it's all well documented and i don't think i need to go into details on it :)make bounties useful, the link in one of the post before mine doesn't work but there has to be some suggestion on how to do this. i personally would at least allow for the option to make non-public bounties. like for corp/alliance only, which pay out on the destruction of the ship, not pod. or have bounties include a way to make engaging in high-sec possible, but be careful with something like that. a way would be contract-like bounties, allowing whoever accepts the contract to engage the target everywhere, including pod, but again: hard to balance and be made exploit-safe..."
"the one thing that bugs me the most is the contact list. please fix that. most of the time it does not tell you correct info when hunting war targets. remote reps need to be looked at. the orca and the being able to switch ships in the middle of a fight without the orca getting aggressed. now that the undock timer has been removed i am think the only option is to flag the orca red if it is used in anyway by an aggressed target. not sure if this has already been fixed i don<U+FFFD>t fall for that trick anymore. also thank you for asking. this is the first thread i have seen in a mountain of crap about 0.0 and elite speaking homies cutting down anyone that thinks clearly or ramblings from a self indulgent stalin want to be. please remember what this game needs the most is new players, not to pamper the rich and famous or hand tissues to crying vets. this winter expansion offers zero to the new player. if sub numbers are the biggest concern and from all the crying in general it sounds like it is. then we royally f-ed up and ccp has been on the right track all along with the development of incarna. too bad as a player base we cannot support then when they try and be innovative. if this keeps going i will see you in wow or one of the other million clones. that is all we will have left and it will be our fault in not supporting one of the few companies willing to break the mold and try something innovative and new. i for one will support eve and ccp and trust ccp. they have made the best mmo on the market and the only game i have played longer than a few months and i have no reason to doubt they will offer quality goods in the future. they have some new products coming and if we don<U+FFFD>t support them we will not only lose eve but also some potential ground breaking games in the future. so get your head out of your ass and get behind ccp instead of allowing this bs in the press (player written press that is) to drive one of the only good games out of existence. i know that<U+FFFD>s what goons like to do but seriously enough is enough.what press you may ask?\"expanding the realm of terrorin the long term, i would like to see hisec itself become a realm of misery and fear. in the past two weeks as i have been murdering miners, i have found the average hisec dweller to be truly execrable. imagine the worst iskmonger of the northern coalition, selling supercaps to the very people trying to destroy him, and then imagine that smug **** protected from any and all risk by concord. the most common insult i have seen in hisec is some trivial \"i'm richer than you\" wallet e-peen contest, as if any of them have riches from scrabbling at veldspar with their bloodied fingernails.perhaps i've taken the stalinist gimmick too close to heart, but this enrages me. it is my hope that through a combination of technetium, targeted strikes on bottleneck assets, and the service of dread pirates we can send these people into a paroxysm of misery. nullsec is a small and insular group of players. most of us have been killing each other for years and changed sides so many times we can't keep track of who we're angry at. podding happens so often that it isn't even discussed. by contrast hisec is virtually untouched by deathlust, and aggression - rather than being de rigeur - is shocking and disruptive to their gameplay. there are barely any tears left in nullsec, yet hisec is a veritable geyser. \"this is from our beloved leader...... but you know that.this makes the csm look like dicks, do you really give a **** about highsec? some how i feel highsec players are talking to a brick wall. above is why i dont want anything to do with 0.0.guess it is my fault. i voted for you guys and was happy at first becasue ot this artical"
"perhaps instead of \"compressing\" gas (which may get complex-- this means you now have 5 different sub-types for each skill level, each with a different volume), perhaps the new ship can have a dedicated gas hold, whose capacity can increase by, say, 20% per skill level. this lets those cool rotating tanks come into play, too!"
"sounds cool too! i though about compressing the gas for making this type of mining different from the others as ore and ice mining are different between them, but a bigger cargohold is always useful!"
"awesome suggestions. if/when lowsec does get improved, it's stuff like this that'll make it worthwhile. supported!"
"why not 2 new skills then?1 requiring additional clones, 1 to shorten the time down. tie both to informorph 5 as a prereq.as for the op's idea - if folks want to spend fortunes putting clones at every single station with different implants - imo: go for it. that's a pretty decent trade-off that really wouldn't hurt anyone.. better than having spare ships and implants sitting around - it's \"used up\" already so can't be re-sold."
"is there an anti-like button for this post"
"if there's an intent to remove ice, remove all of it (the entire mechanic of getting it through mining) and instead use pi.-> produce hw, lo, and isotopes (one generic version now) from various two-planet combinations.(scaling already exists for high-low-null/wh, allows wh access to last pos fuel, ganking still possible in all spaces)-> stront only made by reacting the above in the same system used by boosters.(boost to low, sorta, and slight nerf to high towers - compensating for the new wardec rules)-> re-work the mackinaw as a gas miner(this type of ship is finally available, boost to booster/low and wh folks)"
"this is good, but there's one major problem i can think of... people often select wormholes based on the pi available... systems with full pos fuel pi being idea. if this were enacted, people may find their systems no longer capable of sustaining their pos. now... we have to import ice fuels anyhow, but this would instead shift survival to an unpredictable supply instead of a reliable supply. initially, it would be chaotic and provide undo burdens on a huge number of wormhole dwellers (and everyone else that runs a pos). now... if the base materials were available across most or all planets, that problem goes away and it also makes planets that may have been less than desirable suddenly worth doing pi on.this could be made to work, and work well."
"1. the csm is supposed to help ccp improving the game and they spend their time for it without any payment.2. gsf is not a \"csm alliance\" thats meant to \"look over you\" honestly, are you on drugs ? we play this game like everybody else and we do what we want to because its fun.3. one of the main features in eve is that if somebody just tries hard enough, he or she can force you into pvp everywhere, deal with it."
"sorry all rl call me away to do this thing called interstate work<U+FFFD>to the very enlightening comments made below by some players.<U+FFFD>pvp without risk of any sort is a no-go for a good many people (as you'll soon find out). it's a principle thing.<U+FFFD> and <U+FFFD>no, because i consider one of the fundamental principles in the game is that a loss has a meaning, i.e. it hurts.<U+FFFD>eve is a game for people of many skills; some people would like to try other parts of the game with limited risk. why not let a new player find out that his new bs setup sucks with no loss. not all players have a spare 10 bill isk and 80k + skills. to the pvp <U+FFFD>it<U+FFFD>s a principle thing<U+FFFD> having players rage quit (thus loss of income for ccp) because they just lost their new ship they spent months saving up for is bad for all. yes i know i know if you can not afford to lose it do not undock, in the last six years i lost count of how many times i head that. but to some new players they just like to see what that new ship looks like in space know if it can tank as well as the last with the lower skills for new class. get a <U+FFFD>mate<U+FFFD> lol to test out its tank etc. a lot better that a rage quit to find out it sucks.. just look at what ccp have managed to do with an increased income stream. if some one wants to live in a simulated pvp world why not let them. the only real affect it will have on real eve is more players that more ccp content. <U+FFFD>honestly... if you want to try some stuff out, get your corp to sign up to the test server<U+FFFD>. yep you can do this but it can be time consuming and can reset at any time plus it<U+FFFD>s a test server. notice the word test<U+FFFD> its not the same eve world. this function would give very fast access to new and old players to test out a setup with out having to dual install/update and transfer a toon data. plus it gives you fast access to any toon you have on a single login. as stated else ware in this thread using the test server can be <U+FFFD>a painfully long and convoluted process<U+FFFD><U+FFFD>allow for an in-game recording setup, that allows you to watch the playback on your nice in-quarters displays. this will give fcs the opportunity to re-watch a fleet engagement, and established where things went right/wrong, and thus formulate after action reports to tweak their fleet standard operation procedures, tactics and techniques<U+FFFD> a great idea, adding an in-game recording function into this simulated pvp environment thus not affecting real eve is a good plan. good for working out tactics. i know it can be done, some of you may of heard of a mmo called rift. it has an in-game recording function that you also upload to utube while still in the game so it can be done. this would also allow for as stated else ware in this thread the ability to <U+FFFD>create some amazing youtube videos<U+FFFD> easier to create videos the more on utube thus more free adds for eve.<U+FFFD>because it's \"safe\" it will eventually come to replace \"casual pvp.\" why is this? well... why would you go out and try to find pvp and risk your actual ship when you can do the same thing in a simulation?<U+FFFD>casual pvp now that a fun expression, normally used by the player with 75k+ skills on a new player. that is the problem there is no casual pvp in eve. in 0.0 if not blue you kill. in low sec all are targets even corp mates i have found out. smiles. empire war-decs / faction warfare / ganks before concord turn up. i see no casual pvp here. <U+FFFD>the thing you have to ask yourself is do you really want to tie up ccp programing resources for something that already exists<U+FFFD> as i said above if you used in game functions like jump clones to this space with auto medical insurance on death. we already have space in real eve players can not get to only gm/dev so you just add some more for this for simulated pvp / setup testing / fc fleet training. etc. . it<U+FFFD>s a limited change thus i think a smaller change in code that you think.i summary this function will give players a chance to try ship setups they may never risk in real eve. plus if a new player only wants to play in this no-risk pvp why say they are wrong. it<U+FFFD>s a no-risk and no-gain but it<U+FFFD>s still a player paying ccp for time so it helps keep eve in the black. if you want risk/gain pvp you need to undock as always.."
"i really don't think you get the point of this game."
"since you fail to specify \"why\" said \"unspecified\" person doesn't get the point of this game then i can only reply with...no...you don't get the point of this game.i have already made my case multiple times as to why this would benifit players of eve. as have others...i can only assume you think eve is about pvp. if this is the case you would be wrong. eve is about a lot of things but primarily about everybody having fun thier way in the sandbox. if that means testing fits in a safe simulated environment before running out to nullsec with no experience and losing a billion isk ship then thats what eve is about for them."
"lol... \"casual\" is what you make of it... i usually just make it out to be what's \"fun.\"what is fun for me? taking out an expensive piece of hardware and throwing it out onto the field of battle... a place where the trust of your wingmates/corpmates to fit their ships well and follow the plan you all agreed upon is paramount. you trust that everyone is following the primaries, doing their respective jobs well... you are looking to see anything that might threaten you or your wingmates/corpmates... and the whole time you know that if something goes horribly wrong (e.g. someone fit their ship horribly wrong, someone didn't do what they were supposed to, no one was paying attention to local to see that number spike, etc.) then you have not only just lost a few hours to a day worth in isk... you have assisted in everyone else losing their hard earned isk and the time it will take the recoup it.the \"fun\" come from the \"rush\" of something at stake. take away that reason for players to plan better, fit better, and generally be better pilots... and you won't see people fight as hard. so why is pretty much everything in the game geared towards player versus player interaction and allow for people to interfere with your activities when you might or might not want them to?"
"you're right, goons have had such a hard time getting a foothold in nullsec. we'll probably have to disband for lack of space to do anything.butbut.. it's highsec! insurance is just a waste of money!"
"angry mobs best mobs!"
"not true ganker to resives back insurance and loses noting. sec status is not inaf punishment for ganking that shows in number off high sec ganks over all check kbs once a time. and hulk is t2 ship or makinaw so you resive noting close to the ship cost even with highest insureance. so lets make calcualtion.ganker: cheep ship at max 100 milj with all fiting. insurenace covers atleast 60 milj form lose. at max 40 milj lose.miner: 250 milj with all fiting insurance cover 4 milj. lose 244 milj.conclusion ganker lost only 40 milj in atack miner lost lath more 244 milj.in real life i culd get back form ppl all that money, in eve i dont have mechanics get out from them money ho damaget my property, even if i wuld not insure a ting, property was damaget from mader ppl actions they wuld need pay me back, or get arested and sit long long time in jal, so even not close to the rl. so curent mechenics wrong eve looking form rl prospective."
"hisec is not and has never been \"safe\" only \"safer\". i still find it hard to believe that anyone who has played long enough to get out of a noob ship hasn't been able to crowbar that simple fact into their skull. the only way to stay perfectly safe in eve is to stay docked, you should rejoice in the risk implicit in eve as that is what makes the game worth playing even in hisec (though only just hisec is a stagnant, overpopulated pool) and lifts it above the mediocrity of most other mmo's.ends sermon, steps off soapbox ."
"i agree with your post.there are things and initiatives happpening atm.it is useless to post it here as a good portion of csm follwers and supporters are actually the responsibles of much of all griefing, can flipping and other abusive activities in eve.please contact me in eve tonight for further details.rolds"
"this is a pvp game with some pve content. don't like it, don't play it.i don't like vampires, so i won't be playing wod, no matter how well done it is."
"oh, but you do engage in player vs player activity everytime you log in.if you mine, like i do in hisec space, then you compete with other players for the best belts in the system.if you build stuff for the open market, then you compete with other players for the best prices. i.e. price warsif you day trade, then you compete with other players in trade wars.how you forget that eve is all pvp, just not always combat related.some days you're the bug, and some days your the windscreen. and some days, you're just a man with a gun."
"if you mine in hisec like i do, you can easily make upwards of 100mil a day with two hulks and an orca. so, it would only take you a few days to recover from a suicide gank. you don't need to buy a plex to make money. you just want to take a short cut. but, as you are finding out, the short cut isn't really so short now is it?some days you're the bug, and some days your the windscreen. and some days, you're just a man with a gun."
"don't lose your time with this guys grayco.soon we will have a way to express ourselves, believe me."
"i play eve because i like it. that doesn't mean that enjoy morons to take advantage of the game flaws to be a hassle.go do some incursions and stop firing mackinaws cowards."
"you are obviously mis-informed on the game mechanics of eve. being able to attack others in hisec is apart of the game, not a flaw. the only flaw in eve is the belief that you are safe in hisec. the best advice i was ever given as a new player was: for every hour you play eve, you should spend an hour reading on how to play eve.don't complain because there is a player base that understands the game mechanics better than you. it just belittles you and your efforts ingame.some days you're the bug, and some days your the windscreen. and some days, you're just a man with a gun."
"yeah but the qq factor would be justified in some situations.there you are, you've got your target and are shooting away. in comes a shuttle across your line of fire and... concord intervenes - you show a shuttle kill and a lost ship.then again, chasing a ship around a planet, trying to get a clear line on them to open fire... exiting the far side of a pos from hostiles to fly off in safety... it would add some dimensions to combat that don't currently exist.i understand why they don't allow hiding behind ships and the like but some celestials would make sense so i guess it would need some cautious looking at if they ever really considered it."
"at first i was \"hell no\", but after reading the different views here... it seems like interetsing ideas.more micromanagement would be nice on fleet battles.really liked trebor idea to force fleets to works on different units at different points.the way to do it however... dunnoand it would be funny if succeeding to kill an ennemy titan make half the subcap close to him explode just after... would means attacking it at close range is pretty dangerous however, as you risk getting the whole attacking fleet destroyed with the target..."
"the only \"must have\" from perp is the option to automatically rejoin a fleet after you disconnect.internal corporate markets would be worth a look, but it could destroy the overall economy."
"you obviously weren't around for the last insurance change..."
"signing up for my republic fleet issue hurricane now."
"all you do with this is giving defender a hilarious advantage over roaming gangs because the roaming gang must be carefull with warping while the defender can do whatever they want with plenty of fuel nerby.this will actually discourage small gang warfare as you are always at the risk of running out of fuel with hit and run tactics.once you are out of fuel, a defending fleet will be able to intercept your frigates/hacs with bs thanks to the lowered warpspeed.and good luck managing meaningfull fuel depots in the enemies core system.honestly, if you want an anti blobb mechanism, introduce a warpspeed modifier for fleets that is based on the combined mass of all fleet ships. 250 frigates work fine, 50 bs work fine, 250 bs not so much.hell thats a better idea than yours and still bad..."
"no.pain is weakness leaving the body"
"there are some annoying things about war dec be good to look into them.there are some differences also between corp/alliance war decs and i cant see why.1) why can a corp only dec 3 entities at once? i dont see why this is. should be just like alliances unlimited.2) if you are a corp and you have currently less that 3 war decs, then as usual some corps leave the all alliance you are at war with, this classes as another war dec on your list, thus with the 3 dec restriction, it stops you from doing anymore. again they shouldnt act as a separate war. i know its only for 24 hours, but if you need to do a war dec urgently this adds an extra day. obviously implementing item 1 will resolve this issue.3) when a corp leaves an alliance during a war dec, they are classed as surrendered, then why are there no 'deals' made on this surrender as per the mechanics. they should either close a deal, or made to be in the war up to the time the week would end - corpwardecendate = alliancewardecendate. they shouldnt be able to simply leave and thats it. (we know the current alliance hopping issue) needs to be sorted really.4) why is it you can dec immediately if your in an alliance, but have to have a corp vote if your in a corp, thus waiting 24 hrs? surely all corps in the alliance would need to vote on this? it has a bigger impact. i would assume allowing corps to immediately dec, and alliances to have a corp/ceo vote would be better. it dont make sense. make it the same at least, either way.5) these silly stopping you deccing mechanics, when corps are half inbewteen leaving when you do the dec is silly. it takes 24hrs for the war to be active anyway, by then the corp would of already left, so i dont see the point of this.6) if you dont have enough money in your corp wallet, pop and ask if you want this money transfered, from either another division or your personal wallet. just makes it a bit easier. #im sure there are some more, ill try post if i rememeber them"
"dariusiii's response.it's blatant whitewashing trying to redirect attention to goons instead of acknowledging his own mistakes."
"support this"
"wait, is this the wow forum?nope, it is eve, it is getting i cannot tell the difference. dont worry everyone your custom diapers will be avalible on the nex next week, maybe mommmy will let you buy then and you can stay up late that night and filling then with your ****."
"i have further described my feelings on darius the third's recent actions in the following blog post."
"where can one find this evidence you speak of?"
"i covered in my blog post, but here's the original article."
"herp you fail. this is just about buffing low sec. you are just wasting web space and good at. i support low sec love."
"losec to me is like the kids playground at school with a bundle of bullies trolling around picking on people and taking their dinner money. then when you fight back and look like winning all their mates bundle in and kick the crap out of you.while the answer may be to join a pvp corp and come in a group my schedule doesn't really allow for that and i tend to snatch a couple of hours of eve of a night when i have time. i suspect that quite a number of carebears fall into that category and if you really want us to come venture into lo you need a solution that doesn't involve us rocking up and being cannon fodder.perhaps, given the point someone else made about lo-sec stillbeing empire there's some scope to tweak faction warfare to incorporate skirmishes with the piwate factions which should allow for some local activity rather than stuff halfway across the galaxy while giving some benefit to those who want to be on the pirate side.."
"i would really like a stock market and i gort some ideas how to do this, but it seems like my post dont get posted for some reason :-("
"for number 3... it has already been done. in fact... it was done so well that when when it came to its \"predictable end,\" it got a mention as one of the top \"griefer\" moves in mmo history.7 d*ck moves in mmo history - page 2edit: damn filter... you have retype the actual word into the link to go there..."
"shah,i understand your points but dont think its impossible to track. financial services could be given and provided through account info. if the user doesnt pay theb the credit card is being charged.an i agree with hrs previous comment. if our suggestions dont match csm heads pwrsonal interests then the post is left aside or we are answered with very limites thoughts or depth in the comments."
"i agree. it happens that is some smart solutions are being raised and are not in line with csm heads personal interests then u are left aside.please contact me in eve tonight, id like to chat with u about this."
"well and what about the other ideas???"
"hey all i know that a bunch of us have ideas for ship that we can use here in the eve space and we would like to get them out there and see what people think so i feel that here in the forum there should be a topic just for new ship ideas and the fit outs for them and really it would be nice i have a whole list of ideas that would make great ships and stuff like that but i can not find a good place to put them so can we open up a new spot for the ship ideas and thank you all an have a good day"
"two things:1: this is not a bad idea in and of itself.2: for it to work, op needs to post a few good ship ideas of his own, not just call for ideas. this whole forum exists for the explicit purpose of calling for ideas, and anyone who has a really good ship idea would be posting it somewhere already."
"the bounty capping is a great idea! that fixes the issue with alt killing as you said. however, there still should be an interface with concord to provide \"legal\" killrights to facilitate the role players and ingame content requirements. i'm sure if we keep bumping the thread and refining the concept, we'll eventually have a perfect option for ccp to work with.thanks for the support."
"i like this one a lot. you would still however, have to deal with people putting large bounties onsomeone and them never undocking from station. you suggestion has a lot of merit and sounds very interesting."
"i am a self-proclaimed small-scale marketeer looking for the big $$$, and i enjoy the spreadsheet version of eve just as much as the client. however, there is one problem that arises: the lack of exportable data from markets.at the moment you can export a limited number of things: gamelogs, chatlogs, and static market logs of the buy / sell orders on the market. all i am asking is for the data that can be exported to be increased to include the following items:price historytransaction historywallet historyassetsthese things are already downloaded from the server, so all it would really need is some .txt formatting and a button that says \"download\". this would make the market analysis i do *so* much more fun... i'd no longer have to hand-copy the average price + volumes of trit on the jita market to excell."
"not because you are the csm means that you represent all gamers.you are only taking care f your alliances interests and leaving aside important minorities that are supportive to some ccp initiatives aside.things will start to change sooner or later, u cannot fool ccp much longer."
"i'm thinking you might need to get some professional help soon. your obsession with eve-uni is getting slightly disturbing..."
"as a new player running a couple of low level missions i noticed that projectiles can pass through space objects (asteroids, space stations, etc). i think it would be an improvement if objects played a factor in whether or not a projectile can hit you. i dont know if it's possible to have some visual representation of projectiles hitting asteroids, or the shields of a station, but at least some type of programming formula where space objects factored into whether projectiles could hit you. would add a real strategic element to space combat if ships could 'hide' in asteroid fields or flee around a planet."
"i think at one point it was in the game, then taken out because of the lag monster. (maybe just for missiles though?)"
"not sure. i'm relatively new to the game ('bout a year). i thought there could be resource issues of graphicallly displaying projectiles hitting objects, though know sure what it would take to figure it into a formula of some type."
"not sure. i'm relatively new to the game ('bout a year). i thought there could be resource issues of graphicallly displaying projectiles hitting objects, though know sure what it would take to figure it into a formula of some type."
"yeah, if it was there (and then taken out) it was long before i started playing as well. if it can be done whilst keeping the lag-monster at bay, then it would add some interesting things to fights..."
"would be cool, if it doesn't make a huge lag as velicitia said... would be really interesting."
"the odds of employing such a tactic however is few and far between and likely going to cause problems. the lol's to be had in invoking concord by hiding behind stations would be funny....albeit a little ridiculous================ stop the evemail spam!"
"errrrr infernal double post glitch.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"in all honesty, simply to make it so capsuleers don't look like special needs cases when high-sec war-dec'ing, im sure it could be implemented that the ship will automatically cease fire when it reads it's weapon trajectories intersecting something that is not hostile or marked to be as such, so it would stop firing before it hit station, or a whole group of frigs on the jita undock, so as to not make high-sec warfare impossible."
"good idea. whatever way they do it i think coud result in some pretty interestng warfare tactics."
"this would have to apply to all effects for the sake of balance, or else you just \"hide\" your ecm/logi/booster ships behind supertanked battleships designed to soak up enemy fire. server load would be horrendous during nullsec blob fights. when you've got hundreds of ships shooting at each other, that's a lot of vectors to calculate for every frame. the upcoming time dilation system will come into effect much earlier with this sort of thing.what i find more frustrating is getting \"stuck\" on an object that i am visibly nowhere near. i'd much rather see the ships get smarter about flying around collideable objects before we got line-of-sight effects."
"not cease fire. they would have to remain active and just not cycle again until you had a clear shot. otherwise it would just get stupid.also, highsec combat would get a new element: blocking alts, big neutral nano ships intended to get in the way when things go bad."
"agreeing with the consensus, here; the math behind this sort of thing would put too much strain (and therefore lag) on the systems. it would be easier to do with turret weapons, but missiles move through space, and in nullsec blobs, that complicates things immensely... and since it wouldn't be 'fair' to implement a system that didn't affect one type of weapon, it won't happen until processing capability (or possibly data handling capability) markedly improves."
"ok so the new nebulae coming out looks really cool and all but i just read an article that makes me think eve would be mindblowingly awesome with all of these in it (as the title of the article implies)."
"some new scenery would indeed by nice to look at. if it doesn't take priority over other fixes, i can support this.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"yeah i am not saying prioritize it over anything else but really awesome scenery in space could draw in new players. what if we had specific solar systems that had \"storms\" occuring in them that actually did system wide damage to ships? lightning bolt streaks accross the system at random and depending on how close to it you are depends on how much damage you take. goonswarm and pl both lose in 2000 man fleet fight due to lightning destroying both fleets.awesome..."
"that's a bit of a stretch. but new visuals would be quite nice.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"one can dream."
"i never said it would be a good interest rate. that said, since there doesn't actually exist any other way of collecting interest on isk in eve as of yet, that's not an appropriate mechanic, and it would be exploited like you said. if there was other sources of interest, though, it'd make sense."
"i really don't agree with transferring characters at all so i really don't like the idea of changing names on a whim either.i don't think it's that big an issue with the vast majority of players and i would rather ccp spend their time fixing the broken aspects of spaceships and game mechanics that minor issues like names.and before the op goes all emo, like she has on other's that have commented in the negative, this is my opinion take it or leave it."
"while i do argee that fixing broken things shuld be a priority .however progress shuld also be a priority .and altho the majority will not need / want a name change now... some day im shure most will at one time want / have wanted a name change."
"as long as its trackable, possible once once per year and awefully expensive, why not ?but if done it should be really expensive, like 5 plex for example.if its too cheap it will be done too much and for too stupid reasons."
"shameless bump. it really would be nice to have even just a little bit of input from a dev or even a gm on this matter."
"yup, good idea. supported.bump!"
"current csm is comprised of the wrong people. we should field a candidate to push this issue as a primary concern.edit: actually, i hear two step's corp works in wormholes. maybe he can pick this up?"
"thing is...we know ccp is working on something for pos's. seems we don't know exactly what since they are keeping the nice fluffy warm details to themselves for now."
"priority 1 !!!priority 2 the rest of the ui / gui"
"double post fail"
"yes thank you for cross posting and double posting and everything else in-between.your point? relevance?================ stop the evemail spam!"
"not supportedi pay my monthly fee and so do you. you should not get any more sp than me.our toons are evenly matched because of it.just cause you live in mommy and daddy's basement doesnt mean you should be getting a million more skill points than everyone else.its ccp's job to run and test its product and code. its our job to report any bugs and play the game."
"please don't confuse the mittani's newfound love of empire ganking as a csm statement of policy. he's the leader of a 0.0 alliance with one hat, and a csm with the other hat. each csm has their own voice, concerns, and strategies for how to improve the game. i do have an interest in bringing a focus to ideas that improve the overall gameplay for all players a not just some, so please assist me in this by contributing to this thread and brainstorming ideas on how to make the highsec game more enjoyable for those who choose this style of gameplay. i have every intention of aggregating the best ideas and advocating on their behalf to ccp.i know you feel strongly about your concerns and frankly there's no way i can assuage them with words, but please try not to derail this thread with that kind of stuff ok?"
"back when i was running missions in hisec, the thing i found most annoying about it was the structures. some of them drop nifty little bits of minor loot... which is kind of awesome, especially when you get cool stuff like exotic dancers. unfortunately, most structures do not drop anything. there is seldom, if ever, any hint as to what will be the case, except that habitation modules of any variety seem to have drops more often then most things, while generic walls and such never have drops, and rogue drone structures frequently drop drone alloys. yes, i get that this is mostly trivial, generally not worth the ammo, and at best something for your drones to do while you loot the field... but since you've got all that stuff out there waiting to be popped anyway, why not populate it with loot?it doesn't have to be good loot. most of those easily-popped structures (walls, junctions, elevators, etc...) shouldn't yield anything more valuable then a dozen isk or so... a handful of tritanium, or some low-end ores, or something equally forgettable. but if i want to, on the other hand, go after a harder target, like a drug lab or a hanger array, or maybe one of those stationary whatever ships lying around the missions, i'd like to actually get some kind of reward out of it. it doesn't have to be a big reward, but should be something random and unusual, like i sometimes found by popping hab modules.being taunted with rare drops of unusual but forgettable items only some of the time at whim is just annoying... generally, i'd like to see structures drop things about as often as wrecks. they don't have to be awesome things, but some physical recognition of the fact that i went out there and blew something up, even if it winds up being a random useless item, would be vastly better then the existing system of mostly nothing and occasionally something kind of interesting but not actually valuable."
"many highsec folk would ike to get out to null, its just impossible to go alone, and they are treated like **** in large alliances.also, never nerf highsec missions, mining, or anything really... it wont helpsomething new for highsec would be nice, an arena, establishments would even be good, but something new to dohighsec needs something that is its own even if its not super rewarding on isk but something that people cant do in low/null/wh space."
"hisec is fine ... what needs to happen is that lowsec gets boosted a bit to drive people out that way. the new pi stuff should help, maybe not right away ... but in the longer term as people realise that if they stop being \"5 man industrial corp #23413465\" and merge together with the other four 5-man industrial corps (now being 25-man industrial corp #123341) they can better pool their resources to get stuff done. however, said 25-man industrial corp isn't yet ready to venture into lowsec. they need to either take some combat classes (i know a few corps/alliances do this... just can't remember the name offhand), or find a way to draw in 5-10 combat capable pilots (aka mission-runners) to help make a push into low."
"this is prolly a huge trap but oh well.highsec is fine as it is(except maybe for hsec mag sites they are soo worthless they are just wasted space on the server imo) lowsec is the problem here.imo lowsec is crap the rats are crap the ore is crap and the pvp is annoying crap imo instead of going with the whiners who say nerf high sec start thinking about buffing lowsec to the point that people want to go down but not to the point that null sec alliances will just \"stripmine\" it.maybe either reduce or remove the security status hit for killing people thus encourage more pvp as none of us non -10s can really enjoy ratting our sec back up and maybe reduce the tracking on gate sentry's so that you can use frigs or fast nano fit cruisers for gate camping but if a single web goes on you it becomes a \"oh ****\" moment up the value and amount of battleship rats in low sec so there will prolly be more people ratting and more people killing said ratters ps. moving l4 missions/incursions/ore/ice to low sec wont force people to go there you try forcing someone to play your way and see how well that goes."
"this sticky link is a listing of all the ideas that have been proposed and is being tracked by a dev -"
"this damn forum has eaten my post twice now.removing insurance for concord-aggression losses is a no-brainer. no insurance agent is going to pay out a policy on a vehicle lost due to criminal activity, much less 8 times per day. suicide ganking should be a more calculated risk for the attackers on the expected value of the drop. insurance shouldn't matter to anyone doing it for a bounty on ice miners, or because they're bored and want to waste money attacking a non-wt.small scale arenas with betting options, yes yes. it attracts folks to pvp who would otherwise not bother, and can lead to hilariously obvious odds-rigging.as far as highseccers and politics, the problem is a compound one. highseccers tend to be casual players who don't want to (or can't) toss in the time required to be relevant in a null alliance, or form up into small gangs for lowsec roams. casual play is perfectly legitimate, and accounts for significant revenues for ccp. but they're not organized, and only barley pay attention to csm politics, if at all. when their concerns are marginalized or ridiculed by powerblocs, the usual response is, \"you should have voted, run for office, formed an alliance, etc.\" what's more likely here is that the casual player will simply quit; why spend money on a game where nobody cares about you? they take their subscription fees with them, as well as the fees of their casual friends who also leave since their friends are gone, and the winners of the political argument wind up being the losers in the final result, along with ccp. now that the csm has moved from being a pr stunt/mouthpiece/t20 bandaid, there should be a way to get casual players into the political process, even if it's just a stupid little can of \"i voted\" quafe.on that note, props to rat if this thread isn't just a giant troll. :p"
"i actually laughed irl at this bit. seriously dude, where have you been?eve is all pvp. that guy mining in a hi sec belt? supplying minerals for ships for pvp. that industry dude doing pi for pos fuel? supplying fuel for pos's that are used in low/null for pvp purposes. everything in eve revolves around ships getting blown up.as to a simulator in eve to simulate eve, that's just dumb. seriously dumb.the whole point of eve and the reason most people play it is because there is risk. take away risk and you will not add to the subscriptions, ccp will lose thousands of accounts as all the people in low/null sec stop logging in. and when they go, so goes the carebear aspects of eve so no more mining or whatever.i started in hi sec like everyone else did. i have played for 4 years and i have gone through all the problems and mistakes that eve has to offer. i learned and i improved. basically you guys just don't want to take the time to learn and improve. you want eve for dummies.i for one would hate to see something like this in eve as it renders all the time and effort all the people that were here before you went through. you demean the efforts of all people that improve with ideas like this."
"if eve was about pvp then that would be the only thing to do in eve. it's not. grow a brain.hate to break it to you but there is a lot of other things in eve to do and they don't all gear towards pvp. pvp is a singular aspect of the game. i have friends that have played eve as long as me that have never even bothered to try pvp. that have never went to nullsec unless they had to."
"what part of pvp in eve isn't already simulated? what you're actually proposing is simulated simualated pvp. or shuld it be virtual virtual pvp? evevvpvpftw maybe?"
"now the conversation is just getting stupid. to the op. keep going with it. it's a good idea despite they naysayers nitpicking at stupid little things and those that think eve is only about what they specifically do in the game. it likely won't be something implemented anytime soon or ever for that matter but you never know."
"i really like the new ideas that ccp is coming out with for pi. private co's is going to revolutionize pi and for the better. just like i said, now we will have pi professionals doing the pi work and our products are going to be worth a lot more. +1 for ccp imo~lokiish"
"basically, what i most need on the science and industry window is an indication of the resource capacity of my planets; it's that capacity that tells me when i need to visit my planets to restock supplies and haul away finished goods. that'd be a fairly easy indicator to add in... except that the capacity in question always winds up being the capacity of my launchpads, since anyone who does pi seriously runs through the launchpad instead of the command center. since you might wind up having multiple launchpads on a given planet, depending on your setup, that complicates things."
"concord podding gankers just means they use jump clones, or use cheap implants. it would have zero impact on ganking.the goons are presently engaged in an operation to affect the market, and that requires destroying mining barges and exhumers in high sec. this is an invasion, a guerilla war being fought by the goonswarm in order to deny their enemies resources while strengthening their own. the fact that the everyday miner is impacted by this is simply a matter of course. as with all wars, a lot of innocent people are caught in the middle. your losses are collateral damage and a means to an end.and no, i'm not a goon."
"dude, they are goons/test. sorry to burst your bubble here but they live in null sec. they couldn't care less about their pod or security status as most null sec pilots don't use implants.i once felt as you did when i first started but i learned to use d-scan and pay close attention to local and ships nearby.any losses you incur due to your lack of awareness is, ultimately, your own fault.eve is a harsh, complicated and dark game. we like it this way and would like to keep it this way.don't support this service and/or product."
"says who?dont pretend to rule this game dude.we will make this game more fun to a broader audience.greifers will go down."
"we here at wildly inappropriate are willing to overlook your previous transgressions if you give us all hugs.also, op is obviously ~mad~ that his risk-averse play style was interrupted in a game where pvp is non-consensual and unlimited in scope. hooray.hko is that way --->"
"sorry no hugs.but respect... and props?yes.besides your not an original goon. ================ stop the evemail spam!"
"you can have as many hugs as you want.i would really like to support you, as i do have a lot of friends in goon, unfortunately your alliance behavior is widely known for their abuses of power.in some cases you picked the wrong corps as allies. you are definitely building a bad reputation."
"i found the troll."
"nope, unfortunately is not a troll what you ve found.get used to it-"
"absolutely 100% with the op on this one. piracy and ganking should be hard. high security space should be secure not total anarchy like it is now.gank and get concorded...no insurance at all. drop below a certain sec status get actively popped by concord for entering high sec. rats should give less of a sec increase to pirates. the lower the sec status the harder it is and longer it takes to get it back up. ganking someone should give the ganked longer kill rights on the ganker than this joke of 15 minutes. lets try a week and go from there. a sec status of -5 or lower should allow any player to actively kill you with no reprecaution from concord."
"my corporation is at war with three alliances and one corporation. i move through known staging systems of these organizations on a regular basis. if i'm able to move about in highsec with that kind of ease, it is far from anarchy."
"here is some real sound advice, learn to pvp. if you need lessons, get in a low cost tech i frigate, fly to parses and look me up. i'm a hisec miner with a background in pvp, i will be glad to show you the ins and outs, no charge, no humiliation, just what i know about it. i'm not the best, but i'm not the worst either. and i'll be more than glad to help you learn.some days you're the bug, and some days your the windscreen. and some days, you're just a man with a gun."
"ive spent years in nullsec and currently live in wh space. i hardly need pvp practice. and that is hardly the issue. good luck firing back from your hauler or mining barge. you think pirates target the first tengu they see so they can get the kill and 20 mill in loot? no...they target haulers with valuable cargo in which they can make more money than what they lose from thier concorded ship. highsec stands for \"high security\" which its not. it isn't \"secure\" if the killer is able to get in and kill someone. high sec is supposed to be the place the new people go and carebears can do thier thing in relative safety. as it stands right now there is no safety at all."
"you wanna know the best part?we don't give a **** what you pubbies think."
"highsec stands for \"high security\", which it is. it does not stand for \"total security\", which some people seem to think they are entitled to."
"this.some days you're the bug, and some days your the windscreen. and some days, you're just a man with a gun."
"thanks dude. appreciated.nevrtheless this is not the point of the post.just think about the pilots trying to mine ice inhigh sec that do not want to do multiboxing and they have personal mining embargoes from griefing corps like goons making the gameplay very boring. i would at least expect to receive a war dec. ganking a mackinaw in high sec is just an abuse of isk capacity and gameplay flaws helping griefers.if thy are bold enough to dec there are good enough miners that are able to sustainan honorable dogfight.it depends on skills and balls, i believe that today miners that pvp have more than many griefers, recent statistics in ship losses proves my point.miners are not afrid of pvp. we will never be."
"uhhhhh... what? every \"hardcore miner\" i've ever met has been \"afraid\" of ship to ship combat (even in a well-skilled, fully-fit combat ship).also consider that gankers don't declare war because as soon as a \"carebear corp\" gets the notification, they all leave and wait for the declaration to end. suicide ganking is on of the few ways to go after people who you know will \"corp-hop.\""
"well, i guess some griefers are being victims of some carebear power lately.keep doing your best!next time youd rather be bold enough todo some incursions instead."
"security is relative, not absolute.all life is risk.if this bothers you, get a helmet."
"i'm with trebor and raid'en on the proposal. both features already exist in eve. after discoing and relogging it asks whether you want to rejoin previous fleet (timeframe is 1 min iirc). internal corpmarkets are done with the contracting system."
"yes...thank you."
"i like the exploding ships idea alot. its realistic. maybe base it on a ratio between the size of the ship exploding/size of your ship/distance to the explosion.if it only took a % of your hitpoints even in empire it would be ok."
"problem with empire in the last discussion was the gcc from the resulting explosion. it would have to be carefully addressed or create no gcc at all as it would create some havoc."
"i think it could be even less. for instance even if your really close, a frigate could only take like 1% damage from a battleship blowing up. if you did it this way it would encourage fleets to bring many tiers of ships, as they wouldn't deal much aoe damage to each other. but if you had all battleships, you'll more screwed for blobing."
"an example: goonswarm wardecs test.test bs at jita undock.goonswarm shoots test bs.test bs explode.people explode.tears flood the forums.no sec status or standing loss.repeati'm all in for destroying highsec once and for all, but hell it has to be a challenge.from another point of view, we could shoot test ..."
"so i guess you just ignored the part where we said special considerations would have to be made for high sec and gcc's would have to be addressed?"
"why ship death aoe won't work:my crew gets a bunch of ships and shoots them all down to 5% hull. we park them all on the jita undock, get aggression on one, and pop it. the resulting chain reaction deals enough damage to the freighters undocking that they are destroyed. congratulations, you just enabled smartbombing inside the docking radius. what's more, it's not concord enforceable.if they ever do introduce it, though, neutral suicide bombers are going to be a lot of fun in highsec wars."
"so i guess you just ignored the part where we said special considerations would have to be made for high sec and gcc's would have to be addressed?seriously...for the love of god..."
"what i propose would be for the borders between the empire<U+FFFD>s and null- sec to be in flux. this can be accomplished by during an update to a 0.4 system that has shown a higher use by a plus rated corp or alliance be moved to a 0.5 status. the same could be done if a minus 10 .0 - 0.0 corp or alliance moves in or continues to hold the area. this may happen to 1 to 10 systems per update or maybe entire constellations during a major update. (ie. incursion) this would be more realistic of showing political changes between empire<U+FFFD>s for materials and/or expansion. some ideas that would help with this:1. that high sec mining belts be sized down to account for the years of mining to push miners to the outer areas or into low or null sec to make isk<U+FFFD>s2. using the new pi plans. set the tax on concord custom stations in null space, 0.0 to 0.4 and 0.9 stations to 40%, 0.8 to 30%, 0.7 to 20%, 0.6 to 10%, 0.5 to 5% . in null space to 0.4, a concord custom station will stay in place till 24 hours after a player owned custom station comes online. at that time is will be assumed that the concord workers have been hired by the pocs or evacuated by concord. a pocs will stay online till destroyed or the empire has rated the system to a level of 0.7 or higher. at 0.7 concord will either pay for the pocs pro-rated by standing of the corp or alliance to the dominating empire or by hostile takeover. once a pocs is destroyed or falls into non-uses , the planet it orbits will be inaccessible for planetary interaction till rebuilt."
"actually, i think that concord probably shouldn't put up any customs stations in lowsec at all; let player corporations (and/or pirates!) do that themselves. give them a taste of nullsec conflict mechanics, and the necessity of defending some expensive thing based on a timer... see what happens."
"... concord are not supplying npc customs offices to low sec, and no.if you decide to live in low security space you take the hit . changing security status of a sys over an expansion will have adverse effects that you have not ever nconsidered.1. traping -10 players assets in highsec: this is counter to what ccp wants. they like the fact that people decide to live outside the confines of the law. traping assets on a whim is not ccps style2. influx of caps in highsec border systems: i myself live in a .4 system and if the security status was raised then i would lose the ability to field my capital contingent this may not seem like a majure problem to you but.. there are plenty of 0.0 alliance who use these border systems to store and move capital ships. this change would cause imo upheaval on par with the nex 3. changing a .5 to a .4: could potentialy cut off entire areas of space to people who need to move around. udema is just one example of this . all trade lanes pass through udema .not supported"
"i agree."
"this is a new and entirely unique idea! i support this!"
"i agree; ships destroyed with the help of concord should not receive any insurance benefit whatsoever. they should also not get a free reaper when they dock. +1 to this idea."
"draketrain fleet issue drakesupported"
"supported; bc's are, after all, some of the most-used ships in the game, so having shinier versions of them for richer folks would be a good move."
"supported. oh and by the way...grey and brown camo is fugly."
"last i checked eve was a game and not a job. i play for fun not to sit for ages working out logistics for going further than 5 jumps.you ask anyone that flies capitals what they hate most about them and the majority will tell you fuel and cyno chains. logisitics is not fun even if the op thinks differently.try making the game fun, not a second job."
"better yet, implement the idea for a one month trial period, and make op responsibe for plotting all cyno chains, refueling routes, and pos logistics costing him 1 plex for every month he fails to do his job, and after he si 3 plex in debt, he biomasses.but seriously, ship \"fuel\" is the capacitor, and theoretically if they used something liek a \"fusion engine\" kind of principle as a power source, a pellet only weighing 10 grams could power a city for 4 hours, so im sure it could keep a frigate energiced for months, making fuel irrelevant, and supers basically have to be their own gate, so they require a larger source of fuel, hence isotopes.tl;dr op's idea was implemented at start of agme, fact si ship's just dont last long enough to see their capacitor run out of juice, try flying the same rifter for about 3 years and im sure you'd eventually need to refuel but chances are you'll die months before you ever need to."
"of course, attempts to maintain the current style of mindless megablob game play in the hypothetical new environment, gets all sorts of obstacles, as pointed by the highly revered opposition here, which kinda proves that the idea will work. pain is weakness leaving the body"
"the opposition could also indicate that it's a crap idea that needs to be allowed to die a slow, painful death."
"your points are sound. in the mean time, everyone can join \"dec shield\" alliance in order to wipe wardecs off upon us."
"interesting that this is still in assembly hall - and the thread to remove another csm member was moved to jita park speakers corner."
"that's because the mittani did nothing wrong unlike darius the third who has abused his position in the csm."
"this is starting to look silly. his nda is with ccp, and they're the ones tasked with enforcing it. if they won't do that, they certainly won't remove him from the position for a few squeaky wheels.either he didn't violate it, they can't prove it, they don't care, or they're dealing with it internally already. no matter what, it's beyond our control now (as it should be). can we stop this nonsense?"
"bitter post is best post.and, of course, you will have incontrovertable proof of this? no, i didn't think so...."
"itt: goons playing butthurt."
"i didn't believe you when you said this mythical character existed... give them a minute for it to sink in.reguards, iskies-mommies-toonies-corpies-goonies 0707 m8m8m8"
"my main interrest is the stockmarket, but i think your post had some great potentials!marketing tools. - i<U+FFFD>ve been wanting the possibility to place ads on the billboards for the price of x isk. that leads to a secondary option : corporate billbords - ads on capitain<U+FFFD>s quarters screen - corporate stations/corp shops is an interesting idea, but we should keep in mind that this could overcrowd systems like jita if not controlled properly.fiscal services - to make eve-banks a reality, the banks need to be able to claim collateral e.g ships, mats, items etc. so that that isk cant be transfered to another char without losses. - loan contracts is also an opportunity, but again collateral is neededfreelance salesmen - also a good idea! adjusting prices is quite boring so if contracts could be set up to have someone else do it for x %, that would be great.stock market (my main interest) - this could open up a whole new dimension of trading in eve ! - as is, trading corp shares is based on trust because there is zero guarantee that a scammer wont run of with the isk you invested. - corp security is a major factor. i<U+FFFD>ve talked to alot of ceo<U+FFFD>s searching for corps to invest in, but everybody are afraid of corp-takeovers. with a multi member corp 5% is enough to vote out the ceo (as far as i know) only single person-corps are are safe because non corp members cant replace a corp member ceo. - \"corp history\" is an essential part to make this work. the public/potentional investors need to be able to see corp info like : payout-details, corporate strategy, corp-age, # of corp members and shareholders etc to be able to evaluate the corp shares. - of course there need to be a stock market equal to the regular market where you can buy or sell shares."
"welli have posted one and i have plans for another here real soon too"
"i click on eve and dl the new patch/update.after playing for 40 seconds or so, i notice ship spinning awesome!after spinning for 3 seconds, i instinctively try to find the walking in stations camera transfer or whatever fancy trick ccp put in to allow the game to feel seamless, while switching from one \"game mode\" to the other.d: oh noes!10 second story, :)i'm on the forums now wondering if i should bother looking in game for a hidden checkbox.*yawn*just making the point ;)peace/salam,cypher"
"i apologize in advance if this post is not up to code for the hall, it is my first time posting here.i would like to propose a change to the directional scanners of the ships of new eden. it would make myself and i'm sure other pilots very happy to have a drop down menu in the scanner where we could load overview settings we've already saved. if the scanner is using the settings we've already saved from the overview, why can't we select one of those saved settings to be on the scanner while the overview is using a different setting?"
"i am pretty sure most would rather just revamp d-scan entirely anyway."
"like i said i just started visiting the forums recently. i'm not sure what other revisions to the d-scanner have been suggested. i think a scale bar instead of text bar for the range would also be very helpful."
"we have incarna? kill em in station... ;)"
"i too would like to see more information available, via the api whenever possible."
"elaborate and explain yourself please."
"it would be nice if stations that look like they have more then one undock would work that way. say a station has 5 undock ports it would just randomly pick one and you would come out there. i think this would make it seem a bit more real since a place like jita would not have just one undock there is just way too much volume."
"supported"
"i would like it if players could be doing concord/customs/navy stuff. it could even make smuggling a more interesting career."
"to be honest i can't really think of anything about high sec that pisses me off and that might be the reason why i choose to stay there instead of low or null sec. i live in a wormhole and make frequent and daily trips to high sec. i enjoy the small scale pvp that wormhole life offers, the lack of supercaps steamrolling everything, the ease of logistics, availability of trade hubs, the lack of supercaps steamrolling everything, the feeling of owning a little piece of new eden to call home, the isolation that wormholes provide, the lack of supercaps steamrolling everything, and the randomness of each day living in the wormhole.oh, and the lack of supercaps steamrolling everything.life in high sec is a bit safer. we can do just about everything that null sec residents can do except it takes us longer to do it and is less profitable. high sec life is for the patient and i think a lot of players are used to the whole concept of waiting for things. it makes casual play feasible. you can log in and not have to worry that a fleet of supercaps were hotdropped while you were sleeping and completely demolished your home in a matter of hours.plus where else are you going to do manufacturing? low and null sec? come on now, that's just silly. given the limited number of manufacturing slots in null sec stations/outposts and the limited number of stations/outposts in null sec in general, manufacturing out there just isn't feasible. no point manufacturing at a pos if a supercap fleet gets hotdropped in and demolishes it with such ease. anyways, to me high sec is mediocre at best. sort of like bland cereal. not great but also not terrible. low and null sec is just not worth it for a variety of reasons. yes it is highly profitable, but it's also not worth the hassle.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"this is the kind of thing that piques my interest as you said the key word, career. living in empire should be a viable career path and have the same depth of experience and things to do as nullsec. empire in my opinion should be an end game as much as 0.0, just different for a different playstyle."
"corporate bribery, to increase standing, just for pos anchoring.if you're a corp of any real size, and you don't recruit specifically for it, you can't anchor a pos in highsec as you'll never get the faction standing for it. how about the ability to temporarily increase your corp's faction standing, say for a week or so, so you can anchor a pos. have increased charter costs if you're below required faction standing."
"problem with hi sec is that it's so easy to do industry there it makes most industrial activites useless in low sec or 0.0it would make hi sec much more fun if you could actually go to pos and loot tech 2 bporemoved. navigator."
"nice thread, though i don't have time to read it all. i'm not pro at eve, so be kind if these ideas are ditsy. 1.i'd very much love to be able to insure my implants. with how they work now, i figure wearing good ones on a mobile character transporting valuables/doing combat stuff is less viable. even mining with them could be risky i suppose.2.it sounds like insurance pays out badly on nicer ships which makes me more freaked out to fly them. it sounds like currently the insurance is based on mineral construction costs, and not on the risk factor. i wonder if it's poss to make it a bit cheaper to insure non-combat ships (like mining/transport ships) than combat ones?(on the flip side, maybe later when i'm more established with more isk, insurance costs might not seem so extreme.)thanks for the thread, ;)pixxie>^^<[b]~~~ new player podcast ~ pixxie's eve online podcast ~~~ latest episode episode 10*swtor, diablo 3, inferno, hulkageddon* ~~~~~~~~ on itunes and at"
"i don't give a crap if the ideas are the worst things in the world. i'm grateful that you contributed to this, and even if the core idea doesn't work out elements might be awesome so thank you."
"then though i think this is more metagame coming from the kugu circle jerk club i will give you the benefit of the doubt rat.you are looking for career paths, how about burglar. like some of the other posters have stated, make it possible to rob posses in all areas of space. expand on scanning, code breaking, and analyzing skills for this. make the risk high and make it hard but possible. if you fail you are destroyed by the pos defences, but if you succeed you are the pink panther stealing all the goodies and leaving your calling card behind.there are some good ideas in this thread i hope you take them seriously.edit: also something about suicide ganking. i like ganking and it should stay but it is unfair that the ganker gets the killmail and all the loot and the victim nothing. the victim should also get a killmail for assisting concorde even if they don<U+FFFD>t have time to fight back. this will make the gankers think twice and also give the victim something to show for it. or remove killmails all together concerning suicide ganking for both parties. doing it for profit is one thing but buffing your killboard is just weak sauce.ps the mattani's killboard is getting nicely buffed (cowards)"
"don't wanna repost so linking to original..."
"i would like to be able to form a small corp, without being decked all the time - remowe war dec mechanics from hi-sec.i would like to be able to do moon mining in hi-sec.as i'm into mining, manufacturing and the like, i would like, at lots of other players allready has suggested, larger belts with roids consisting of multible oretypes."
"no. as much as i hate the grief wardecs, i have participated in a handful where they made sense (i.e. we showed up, ate all the rocks, got dec'd ... or someone else showed up, ate all our rocks, and got dec'd ... fun as hell type wardecs).no. makes sense that there's no moongoo in hisec.go out to lesser-inhabited systems. chances are, it'll be a lot easier to get the rocks you want."
"i would like to see 'instanced' pvp battlefields, pretty much standard in any mmo these days.a queue system with equal 'x' amount of players required on each side.ship restrictions would apply, for example, frigates in high sec.this would allow new players to not only get involved in viable pvp at an early stage, at a low cost, but also a great way for players to meet other like minded people. this could be tied into faction warfare or just random fights.i'm sure this has been mentioned before and of course there are plenty of pro's and con's, but it would definitely add a lot of fun."
"supported; gas harvesting, as is, involves sitting in a cloud for hours dropping stuff into a can, so anything that'd reduce the time involved would be great."
"i like the idea of a dedicated gas harvesting ship, and giving the procurer a role that doesn't involve being the raw material for skiffs is good too. but i disagree that there should be modules/rigs for gas harvesting; the ones that already exist serve just as well. make mining upgrade modules also apply to gas harvesters and leave it at that, in my opinion."
"thanks man appreciated!"
"i've talked to my ex-corp mates the second ccp released their \"plan\" and all i got is \"i gonna quit eve if that happens\".most of them are highsec dwellers and to be honest their point of view couldn't be narrower.all that crying about highsec dying and other sludge coming out of many bears brains is just not valid in any way shape or form.prices would rise thats almost a certainty. this does not make highsec production/r&d impossible it just makes it more expensive and when in the real world production costs rise so does the products price. it's the same in eve if your pos fuel price makes 10% of your products cost and this rises by 100% you better make sure to sell your product for 10% more to cover the price increase.one argument i do get though is the fact that it will \"give\" nullsec more power over empire a bit like the goons have right now.it might on the other hand provide an incentive towards on site production in nullsec.last but not least nullsec and empire right now have a pretty onesided relationship except maybe for the russians providing compounds.from what i've seen, correct me if i'm wrong, a large part of the production volume from highsec gets shipped to nullsec/lowsec since thats where stuff gets blown up the most. i myself bought almost everything in jita and had it shipped which basically means i was at the mercy of the carebears. on the other hand export is pretty small mostly moon goo, faction/deadspace stuff, compounds and isk.oh and by the way i would really love to see highsec moved from tranquility to sisi including all its dwellers and see the market implode. any thoughts? might be worth a proposal as well."
"hahahahayou reap what you sow."
"another recruit!mail me in eve after 21 utc.don't worry its payback time. something big is coming."
"continue to laugh. better that way."
"1. csm has proven to be totally ineffective and childish with their approach and they are only helping themselves.2. csm are gsf and aaa puppets, and they represent only their point of view, in addition to a bunch of other griefers.3. nobody complains about pvp. you can't be serious akara, pilots after mackinaws or hulks are not after pvp you know that better than anyone.there is a false impression that miners don't like pvp. this is what the game is about!!!but a totally different aspect is making noobs life miserable, ur just ruining the game.griefers are just coward enough to fire mining barges instead of doing incursions that are much more profitable.but don't you worry, things will change.soon."
"good points, bad reasons.1) csm has been effective, just not for you.2) this is because csm does not represent the community, it represents the most powerful entities in eve. its a plutocracy disguised as populism, not a democracy. when the csm project was first announced, thee was a call to allot slots for various aspects of the game a more structured system. but ccp is an icelandic company, and they believe that populism is democracy and that the popular vote represents the greater majority. of course its broken. 3) um. . .firstly, pvp is complained about a lot. and its based on risk and reward. i suppose the real point is1) eve is hard.2) eve is a pvp game - whether that is market pvp, or ship pvp, or caliming you belt pvp - its all pvp bcaus you are competing against other players.3) eve is more kind and soft to the newer players then it ever has been, and the declining numbers of players are not leaving because their mining ships have been blown up (people have been killing miners forever) but because ccp has consistantly given into the notion that empire is safe space. as i and many others see it, there should not exist any safe space outside of the station - when you hit undock, the famous saying goes, you are consenting to pvp.now if people are looking for a relaxing pve experience, i think they should go find another game. what has so many of the older community upset is that eve is challenging and rewarding because it is hard - and at this moment - it is far too easy. if you are the kind of person who will quit because you got killed, then move on because it only gets harder. the trick then is to figure out a way to beat them - and that is the challenge. join a corp, get protection, pay the man off - whatever you do - know that there are a lot of other people out there that are competing for the same stuff.high level missions in high sec, ice mining in high sec. . .all this stuff should be moved into lowsec, and perhaps review wt0. will it be unpopular? yes. will it lead to a price increase? yes. will it make the more challanging and therefor more rewadinb? yes. its really up to ccp at this point - is eve a game people can come home from work, watch tv and eat crisps while they afk mine and relax, or is it going to be a game that requires thought and attention with dire consequences for those who decide to afk haul or afk mine or take whatever easy shortcut. i'd say that eve should strive to be more engaging, more difficult, and maintain the high dropout ratio due to difficulty. griefers are like quality control."
"wow u will get a pullitzer for that.instead go and post elsewhere...why do you guys bother posting here if you are not interested in the post, what a bunch of useless trolls you are.go find a thread more of your profile...something more related to justin b."
"get a little bit more informed morons."
"we post here because what you are proposing affects more than just you. it affects many different walks of life in eve and so they all have a say in the matter. just because we don't like and/or fight your idea it doesn't make us \"trolls.\"that was a proposal made 2 (almost 3 years) ago. at the time, ccp somewhat dismissed the idea saying something along the lines, \"it wasn't that big a deal\" and that \"newbies make very dumb mistakes so they need a bit of a net to recoup from their loss.\"more than that, ccp has yet to hint at any changes to the mechanics (which somewhat implies that they are fine with the system \"as is\").i should also mention that the csm that proposed that idea was mired in controversy and eventually got herself expelled from the csm (something related to her \"irrational behavior\" or something)."
"u mad bro?some days you're the bug, and some days your the windscreen. and some days, you're just a man with a gun."
"why do i have to explain everything to you guys...you already ruined the post.bye the way aliens there is something called irony.done with you chimps."
"someone is mad in this thread, and it's definetly not us.of course you can be ganked every now and then in your mackinaw.or, you can tank it.or warp out if some suspicious ship comes in.you know, if i liked mining in deklein or another 0.0 region. a neutral/red comes in. i'll just warp to a pos and i'll just wait for him to get out. you could do the same thing in highsec.or you could also pay this amnesty thing, it would help.or you could also mine ice elsewhere.you know, it's only targetting 17 systems. those 17 systems who contains blue ice. you can just...you know, mine somewhere else and you would be fine.or you could mine ice in a tanked hulk.you know, you can put tank modules on that ship. and you can reach 25k ehp or something, which is quite good and difficult to alpha. when i fly my machariel, i'm forced to choose. between having a big ass armor buffer tank, and a paperthin shield tank. the thing is, i'll get less dps and less speed out of my mach if i choose the armor buffer. you can't have safety and efficiency at the same time, deal with it.or you could ask a buddy with a logistic ship.if you don't want to train for one, or if your buddy don't want to train for a logi, then you can use a cheap osprey or something, it still works ;)or you could also mine ice in a cheap and insurable ship (like a retriever ?)easier to gank, less efficient, but also really cheap. i mean, 4m or something. you can even reimburse your loss by looting the attacking ship's wreck !or you could join one of the \"resist goonswarm\" stupid thingy and try something.this one is ********, but if you still want to try, feel free to. however, it will fail.or you could also quit mining for a little bit and do missions and whatnot.let's say gsf loose deklein and all that to a bigger coalition. i would not be able to rat in deklein anymore without being bullied by that same bigger coalition. and what would i do ? i would deal with it. by just ratting elsewhere, or lvl 4s in empire and whatnot.if you're not willing to choose one of the many solutions i'm telling you about, well, do as you want and die from a brutix's mighty space cannons."
"high security is still no security until those that kill other players in highsec are prevented from coming back to kill more players by concord. it is still far too easy and far too profitable to suicide gank. the risk vs reward is completely off balance especially if you get an insurance payout on your t1 fitted **** ship designed to be killed after you mercilessly **** a defensless miner or hauler."
"apperantly the op forgot what game has was playing..."
"specifics on aoe explosions is a tricky question... though it'd make 0.0 tactics more interesting, it would require a good deal of care to avoid all kinds of problems in hisec. of course, if you're already willing to sacrifice however many ships it winds up taking to actually pop things from proximity damage alone, you can probably already manage to kill them anyways.as for 'static noise'... that's a fairly clumsy mechanic, but is similar to a somewhat more elegant idea from the commonly proposed ideas list; namely, making the process of locking slow proportional to the number of active locks on a target. that would make fleet combats more dynamic, since you can't just run a 60+ man fleet with everyone targeting the same guy... and would encourage more use of 'utility ships', since having people running around targeting your allies would interfere with enemy targeting to some degree.yes, that's a mechanic that'd take a bit of tinkering to work out satisfactorily... you don't want it to simply be a question of 'everyone target the friendly logistics ships so no one can shoot them', and you'd want some way of countering it... maybe sensor boosters and eccm can help cut through the static, and target painters can make it far easier for other ships to target the painted ship, in addition to increasing damage on hits; those are ideas that are already discussed in the relevant thread, and deserve further consideration in any implementation of this idea."
"it doesnt matter at all what you fix about gcc, an aoe weapon usable in highsec is bad.smartbombs work because they cant be used at undocks, but you can hardly restict the destruction on ships.same goes for abuse of this for \"suicide\" ganking.also saying \"my idea will work somehow because somebody sure find a solution for its problems\" is a very good base for a proposal."
"how about stations having some sort of anti-aoe equipment to protect its guests from non targeted weapons, so that a ship that explodes near a station does 0 damage to nearby ships."
"we already covered this. if you are too damned lazy to read then that is not my problem."
"there are a couple of ways that ccp could make this new idea of custom stations to be built even in null sec would be:1. place a concord station with a high tarriff.2. make the surface to orbit delivery nurffed by about 75%. they have to get eve ready for the dust 514 offshoot.i have thought of quite a lot. i have dabbled in politics, criminal organizations, and corporate greed. in responce to your points 1 & 2. most of this is basic economics. if you .4 system you live in is (to you) invaded by a +10 alliance and they build a pos and start taking over all the planets with custom stations and they are able to hold it against all comers. and you spend most of your time on your alt because your -10 toon wakes up in a clone vat every time you undock, you will probably try to find a new home way before ccp would ever change the security status of the system.your number 3 is not a good example. udema is a major trade route inside a major empire house whereas limited ganking can accure. if enough traders get ganked over a period of time, then politics (ccp) may raise the sec status to lower concord or milita response time. a better example would be actee an island high sec area that with the current ganking of miners has curbed the total economic out flow of ice and minerals from the system and if over a period of time it would be uneconomic and politic to remove concord and or milita assits, therefore lowering the security status of the system."
"i read \"push people out of highsec\" and i thought to myself how much of a idiot you must be you try to force someone to do something and they will do the exact opposite"
"ive heard a lot about fixes with hybrids and 9/10 of that discussion is of blasters and tracking/falloff/dps.this is not a discussion about that!ive put up thoughts about railgun changes and some were rather tricky i guess to implement and some pretty overpowered (with damage bleed etc..) now i have them out of my system and time to think about other areas of fleet warfare that could be exploited.this is my proposal: set railguns to add a small 5% per turret increase in sensor resolution, lock range and sensor strength of the ship its fitted on. (im open to dropping the sensor strength bit possibly, but its a nice addition) set railguns to do a raceid check on the ship its being fitted on. if its not one of 2 id's (gallente and caldari) the bonuses above dont get applied. the less peculiar change is a rof increase and tracking increase. what this means:with a 6 turret hardpoint ship like the ferox, you'd get a 30% increase in scan res, lock range and sensor strength. equivalent to a non scripted t2 sebo and less than 1/3 of an eccm t2, boosting sensor strength to 24.7with an 8 turret gallente or caldari bs its a 40% increase with a sensor strength boost to a mega from 21 to 29.4.gallente and caldari lr ships will fill a fleet niche of getting between logi reps. being able to lock faster and swap targets faster and further naturally. you dont encroach on the alpha of artillery, you dont have the speed at swapping out ammo like beams do but you do fill a unique niche that may actually be effective with decent fleet discipline against another fleet with logi.so with these fleets ud look for long range dps not alpha, it would not be to the scale of ac's or pulses at all. but enough to take advantage of being able to pull dps away and apply it quicker than any other long range platform.plus it also means that although rail based ceptors would get a bit of a boost, its wouldnt be much due to turret hardpoint restrictions.rpidea behind a rp reasoning for the bonuses is that initially a gallentean design, built in secret into gallente turret hardpoints to be a secret weapon against caldari military advances, unfortunately the plans were stolen by caldari spies and passed to caldari shipyards to even out the fight. since the discovery of the leak gallente have activated the tech, with caldari following suit."
"i think this is one of the more \"off the wall\" suggestions i have seen in a while. not saying it wouldn't work but i think if you did this with one weapon subset you would need to do something similar with them all."
"it would be nice to have the \"skill book group\" listed somewhere in the skill itself. text only is fine... just somewhere.and a bonus - a \"search\" button in our skill cue to find it :-)here is the example: i want to inject a skill. it requires metallurgy 5. (but its a circle so i know i have this skilled to something)i now go to my skills and start looking for what my metallurgy skill is at since i do not want to replace whats in my current skill cue.click on each group - scroll down .... next group .... scroll ... next group...so it would be nice to have at least (in this case) \"science\" listed as its skill group somewhere."
"great idea! i can't recall how many times a corp/alliance mate has asked 'where do i find that skill' and having to look around for it."
"easy solution: link the name of the skill in chat, look at the info on it, see \"*skill group*: information\" in the top-left corner of the info window telling you what group the skill is in."
"the ability to search for a skill in your queue would be nice. just have it work the same as the inventory filter. good candidate for the thousand papercuts list."
"it is already possible to train a required skill from right clicking on it on a skillbook, and it will give you the infos you ask for.look, here's a show info of a random skill i checked on the market :"
"the csm issued numerous public statements through these forums when they started this \"reform\" ball rolling. now that ccp has done everything you wanted and real people lost real jobs: where are your replies and statements? it's time to step to the microphone, mittani, and accept responsibility for your and the csm's actions. you've taken metagaming to the next level with your war against ccp. you can't claim its \"just a game\" anymore. step up to the microphone, sir. step up."
"so your posting about what again?how is this for the betterment of the game?what does this have to do with real life jobs again?is this just an another ***** post over csm?if so...kindly leave from whence you came....no proof...no context...waste of time.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"you seem to be very very smart please join my corp with your main characterwe need smart people like youno jokesreally"
"came looking for a well thought out message to mittani about the layoffs... left disappoint.1/10"
"another lame meme response. am disappoint.lol mr. goon alt. i've got 2 km's for you. i don't work with losers and fail pirates."
"i think you're trying to draw a connection between the csm calling for focusing on flying in space and the recent layoffs, but i don't see the evidence to support this viewpoint."
"watgoon alt?wat"
"mittani is the 1% maaaaaannnnnnnnnn"
"to be fair to the op, it hasn't gone unnoticed by many players about the lack of csm response to this whole situation.chances are of course, they knew absolutely nothing about this or are indeed worried about their own future positions as a working council."
"wait a sec, you're really blaming the csms for this? are you that narrow sighted? so here's a hypothetical situation for you:lets say i buy a hamburger from a fast food restaurant. that burger, it turns out, is undercooked and gives me food poisoning. in fact, this fast food joint has a nasty and reoccurring habit of not cooking their food properly and giving all their customers food poisoning.the employees know about it and have voiced concern that their manager keeps rushing them and not allowing them to cook the food properly.customers complain, file grievances to the fda, and raise such a commotion to the point that the manager of this fast food restaurant can no longer ignore it. the manager issues a public apology and promises to clean up their act.nothing happens after his apology for a month. then he fires half of his employees out of the clear blue. so who's at fault here?the customers who complained about getting food poisoning? or the manager and his negligence?judging by your narrow understanding of the situation, it wouldn't surprise me at all if you said it was the customers fault.it's not the players fault for the situation eve online is in. it's not the csm's. it's not the online news press. it's nobodys fault except the management of ccp. this is really really obvious but it seems there are lone individuals out there who still don't grasp the obvious.and yeah, that ten ton hammer article you cited, that was written back in september 7th. today is october 20th. at least try to get your facts in order.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"nice. :) +1================ stop the evemail spam!"
"this. very recently any new dev blog or announcement from ccp with anything positive in it was manipulated behind the scenes so the csm and/or other dev's dominated the first 10 responses.... in an effort to either try to take credit or to try to tell us how we are supposed to feel. (hope they have permanently stopped doing this).now on this - silence. it's noticed."
"we certainly didn't advocate for ccp to lay people off. our preferred solution would have been for all those devs to be working on eve. blaming us for ccp management's failings is a little unfair. we (and the csms before us) told ccp over and over again when they were heading in the wrong direction. they sometimes listened and changed course. they didn't listen to us about incarna, the nex store, ship spinning, and the general neglect of eve for the past 2 or so years. that is the fault of hilmar and his managers, not us, and certainly not the poor grunts who got laid off this week.csm 7 secretary csm 6 alternate delegate @two_step_eve on twitter my blog"
"whose business is it to dictate what ccp does or doesn't do when it comes to how they manage their business?how the hell do you know there aren't any valid reasons for those actions in the first place?..that's what i thought.this is a game....csm's purpose is to make suggestions based on the majority opinions and try to \"lobby\" if i would dare use such a term to get ccp to do things.yes the csm does a horrid job in a number of areas but i will not fault them for this.....that's for sure.the csm are not shareholders nor are they employed by ccp. (last i checked)we are customers..thats it...don't like it? quit the damn game and leave. that's the best your gonna get for a protest.the sooner people start to figure that out and accept it..the sooner they can get on with their lives...if such a thing is even remotely possible.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"why is this even a topic of conversation? what ccp does with it's bottom line is not the players concern. if they laid people off they did it for a business reason and we as players shouldn't be involved or have any say in the slightest."
"i think you should only be able to put one jammer on one target, so it isnt completely ridiculous in small gangs, while still being just as effective in large gangs."
"faction harby gets my vote.also, more t2 bcs."
"because there is no room in the ship line-ups. the tier2 bcs are already dangerously close to tier1 bs performance and only really \"lose out\" due to range difference between m and l guns .. why do you think that bcs are so damn popular?now take those tier2 bcs (assuming you want navy versions based on those) and add the navy 'bonuses' of +50% base ehp (armour/shields/hull), roughly +20% base primary weapon damage, better maneuverability, more relaxed fittings, more slots, more drones, moremoremore.where do you propose they fit into to current ship line-ups? how many ships do you have to nerf to make room for your op bling?in short: the only way to do it is by giving the navy versions such a unique role as to make them as undesirable as the tier1 navy cruisers."
"nice idea, bcs are my most favorite... maybe even pirate faction battlecruisers, if their npctypes would get their own hull... but what about tier 3 battlecruiser? ewar battlecruiser... tank bonus + neut/ecm/scram/web range..."
"want now +1"
"wrong thread"
"indicate?i thought it was expressed in no uncertain terms.don't you think so or you were just stupid in a desperate attempt at writing something ~clever~ ?pain is weakness leaving the body"
"i only got through half the thread before i realized that you need to think and modify your idea.your original idea is terrible, but the premise is something to be noted. i would suggest that you instead switch the concept and make it seem like a boost instead of a nerf. add a fuel to the game that increases your warp speed, a gas cloud product that you keep in your cargo that will be consumed when you initiate warp. this way you get across the big systems faster and respond to threats more quickly. this will act like boosters for the warp drive.just a thought.ari"
"i was being gentle."
"any more feedback? please like at least if you agree.. thx"
"this. people are laughing at it. ccp would take action if anything wrong was done. goons making a rukus? it just makes people wonder what the 'noble' goons are after to help themselves yet again.\"if a miner needs to go to the bathroom, for instance, i ask that they dock up first, or at the very least ask the supreme protector for permission to go.\" - james 315 - aka - the miner bumper"
"i support this. his counter evidence is that it was a lowercase m. seriously?"
"make him chairman instead of kicking him tbh.~~~space credibility~~~"
"low sec needs buffs, any it can get. when talk of big changes comes around you always hear 'the changes will affect high sec like this, and will affect 0.0 like that.' - and so on and so forth. low sec is completely kept out of the conversation which just shows the state that it is in. it's really quite sad. sure population wise it isn't as substantial as hs and 0.0, but people still live there (or would, if its pathetic state didn't nigh force people to leave) and it gets absolutely no representation in major game updates or expansions. it might not be as influential as hs and 0.0, but it is still a part of eve and has gone ignored for years with a few small and inconsequential exceptions."
"i think it's time to get this thread up on the new forums. it seemed to go \"relatively\" well on the old forums so here goes...as awesome as the characters are in this game with the new character creator i still want to see more. the realism so far is great. i love it, but i still want to see boobs bounce. make a fat guys belly jiggle a bit...make boobies bounce just a little. make it realistic. i don't want to see \"dead or alive\" style boobie bouncage but something realistic. it has always been a pet peeve of mine to see boobies stiff as marble in games. even free to play, cheap ass crap games like vindictus put a little boobie sway on the characters so why can't ccp do it and do it right?yeah yeah, more important things we would rather see ccp fix and do, blah blah blah...still would like to see it.again i want to emphasize realism here. not anime floppage but realistic movement and sway to breasts and even other areas of fat like the stomach on some characters./flamesuit on"
"the difference is that some of those other games you were talking about don't really have much to offer besides bouncing boobs. we have better things to do in eve, especially since seeing your char at all other than a static picture is secondary to the main eve universe. i know i, and probably half of the rest of the eve universe, haven't seen my avatar beyond the head and shoulders for months. don't try to get the devs to spend more time on incarna, people play eve to fly around in ships, not walk around in a box looking at their character."
"i happen to enjoy incarna for what it is. there is absolutely no reason to ask the devs to stop working on incarna at all. i say the devs they already have assigned to incarna can keep working on it since they already have enough devs working on spaceships in space. if other less technologically advanced games can make boobs move even a little then so can eve.edit: i realize months later that i probably came across a little harsh in this post. i wasn't intending to. i feel there is room for both fis and wis in eve. each have their place. it has been made clear in the wis thread that it is still strongly desired by the majority. it will have its time."
"now i remember why i started muting your posts....================ stop the evemail spam!"
"that's a nice troll. now move along unless you have something constructive to say."
"as terrible of an idea as i expected, it wouldn't be too bad to have more realism to incarna.now, with this said, i believe that fis is always going to be the first priority, and the rest of incarna should be released upon completion (establishments, mini-games, et cetera). a little more realistic movement to characters (even finite ones) would add to the overall immersion factor (such as facial tics, blinking, or even the light bounce to the breast when a female toon moves). but at present, this isn't a priority, and can wait like so many other things that are put on hold due to the fact fis is the priority.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"this is eve online...go look at google or bing for your little fix's.move along troll.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"just because you're flaming (and no, i don't mean your posting style but rather orientation) doesn't mean everyone else has to be. then again, you've probably never seen a real boob.gtfo.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"im not saying put fis second seat to wis. ccp has devs assigned to both projects i am sure and the fis guys far outnumber the wis guys. the problem with too many people on these forums is they make the blind assumption that any idea presented would take priority over everything else.most that read this probably failed to even read the op and assume what i am asking for is massive neck breaking boob bouncage although i mentioned several times that i am looking for more realism to our characters not some obscene crap to get my rocks off on. the only people who think my request is perverted are the perverts. (drake)"
"some of us would rather have the devs focus on fixing in-game issues and less time on boy fanatasies of staring at boobs all day.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i put breast (and other areas) movement as low priority. before even considering it, ccp should:1) finish incarna to a reasonable amount2) fix bugs3) finish/fix fwnote: in no particular order..."
"again...a proposal for an idea is not a \"ccp do this right now\". its a proposal for an idea. when and if it is implemented is something for ccp to decide. perhaps ccp in passing could set jiggle = 1 instead of = 0 while working on something else. who knows..."
"years is more like it =]"
"hey there, op going emo here! this is my opinion on your opinion so take it or leave it:if you consider all the proposed regulations and balances listed a <U+FFFD>whim<U+FFFD> then i<U+FFFD>ll just <U+FFFD>leave it<U+FFFD>i<U+FFFD>ll <U+FFFD>take it<U+FFFD> that the most vexing aspect of character transfers is the absence of accessible documentation. again, name changing provides a regulated alternative to thisthe magnitude of importance in developing name changing is kinda directly proportional to those suffering. since you don<U+FFFD>t care to empathize, i<U+FFFD>ll <U+FFFD>leave it<U+FFFD>i<U+FFFD>ll <U+FFFD>take it<U+FFFD> that the absence of name changing in such an epic mmo makes it <U+FFFD>broken.<U+FFFD> that you want to let eve stagnate, i<U+FFFD>ll <U+FFFD>leave it<U+FFFD>and before the poster goes all<U+FFFD>"
"i've advocated name changing with character transfers in this and other threads. i want to amend that.one thing to remember: a lot of people use neutral alts in highsec to accomplish various things during wartime. the ability to easily/cheaply rename alts without them being transferred means that neutral alts would be considerably more effective, as they could be renamed on a whim to avoid being spotted. even limiting it to being done when a toon is transferred would just mean that two corpmates would need to trade neutral alts in order to rename them.to that end, i would suggest that once a character has been transferred to an account and renamed, that name is permanently associated with that toon on that account. this would limit the number of renames to the number of accounts a group controlled.and of course, contacts need to follow the name change so that they retain their standings with players and corporations."
"much respect for the thorough post (you too smiling menace). i believe the only thing that isn't currently included in the op is \"2. your new name is 'y aka old name' for like 3 months and then it is just y (where y is new name)\" which merits addition to the 'debated feature' list. the important thing is that we agree that name changing is feasibleheheh, how 'bout names with numbers and/or irregular capitalization while we're at it!"
"yeah, i agree with you on everything, i would just limit name change once per account.that would eliminate constant name changing during wartime or any other reason for which people don't agree with name changing. so if you change name, even if you transfer your character to new owner, he would still have the same restriction, so if you changed name once, he can't do it and vice verse. i would even be happy if you could change only one part of name. and yeah, there should be some option to report name or something if lets say you character name is ian (ian) and some other character has name lan (lan) because that can because it can lead to confusion, but with list and standings that is secondary in my name since it's not so easy to make a mistake if you are careful (but it can happen)."
"don't worry paulize, giving quarter to some counter arguments isn't going to hurt your campaign to run for csm. actually it really helps to improve your appeal to the moderate and right center demographic."
"again, supporting a worthy cause"
"mnagy, as my mom you taught me there is a difference between millions and ten thousand. or was it your brother and my dad?also people are getting various sp per hour - especially in nonsecure space. the richest get the most as they can afford fly with the best implants."
"my point? yes, i have it. but you could find it only if you were willing to read and able to notice that it is not a double post."
"my personal opinion... they should get the amount of sp that would have been learned in the time of the mass test. as a thank you for helping kind of thing. these mass tests are really important for the fixing of problems before we get the stuff, and the more people that show up, the more test point there will be.however, there should be no bonus to bug reports individually. way too much room for exploitation... imo."
"missed it by a mile....just like your missing the fail that is this idea by au's.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"looks like zeroseven is still missing the point (by astromic units noless) that his presence is completely unwanted.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"yes jack we all know your butthurt and obsessed in smack talking me at every turn...get over it.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"lol...what? now you are just trolling jack for the sake of trolling jack. just like you do to me in all my other threads. provide some ******* constructive feedback or gtfo!"
"your toon still skills up on the regular server while you are playing on the other one.you do not deserve double the sp vs any other player in the eve universe just becaue you 'wanted\" to go on the other server. you were not forced to go."
"constructive you say?yeah....sure...don't you have boobies to be petitioning for?================ stop the evemail spam!"
"very true....tranq doesn't stop when your off in sisi land.no sp's should be awarded...period.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"note: this proposal is to ccp, and not to the members of the council of stellar management (csm). however, since there does not seem to be a forum for directing proposals such as this to ccp, i will use the assembly hall.after reading the white paper on the csm, i propose that the csm be ended and replaced with a better method of determining the voice of the customer. from reading through a number of threads and posts on the current csm, its members, and some of the current issues surrounding ccp and eve online, i am proposing that there are better ways of determining the voice of the eve online player-base.if the current csm was elected from only 10% of the player-base, and 2 current members are in the same alliance, it appears that the csm does not constitute a representative sample of the eve online community. if the csm is not a representative sample, then the risk that ccp is not getting a clear picture of the eve online player-base is increased. it should be clear to ccp why an accurate understanding of the concerns and desires of the player base is of vital importance to ccp and the future of eve online.the idea of an elected group of experts called upon to provide the voice of the customer to ccp appears to be a version of the delphi method of decision making. this method is dependent on the belief that the panel of experts have an accurate understanding of what the eve players want. given the low turnout of players voting in the csm elections, i would question csm<U+FFFD>s ability to represent the eve online community. to use a democratically elected, non-governing (csm has no power, only voice) panel as a proxy to the eve community is a strange, and dangerous, way of determining the voice of the customer. analysts from marketing, sales, and customer service departments of many organizations use more quantitative analytic techniques in order to determine the voice of the customer. i propose that ccp remove the csm, and implement a more robust method of determining the voice of the customer; one that is more representative of the player-base of eve online."
"ladies and gentleman we have a winner+1"
"what do you propose be used instead, the size of threadnaughts?your issue is not with the csm but with the community as a whole .. the fact that less than 15% can bothered to read a few pages of text and press a button is what breaks it.as for not being representative: there is a country in this world of ours that runs a two party system with a turn-over rate in its chambers worse than the one-party system of the ussr, in which you have to be a multi-millionaire to even have a chance of competing and where voter turnout rarely exceed 50% .. that country is supposedly the shining beacon of democracy (oversimplified).but fear not, as more and more countries are heading the same direction chances are that it will be become the norm and thus validate the democracy claim since it will be the only 'option' on the block.the csm system is a lot more democratic since everyone (read: every-damn-one) can run and get their message out, sure you get situations where large flocks of sheep (hiya goonies o/) can guarantee a spot for their guy, but unless they truly spam the roster they'll never get more than the 1-2 people.what we need is reps from the three security bands in eve as the issues that they need to be educated in are more often than not specific to high/low/null and a homogeneous csm like we have now (damn null monkeys!) is ultimately detrimental to a fluid/constructive process."
"your complaining about this csm being null heavy but at least they've done something. unlike the three previous csm's that were so full of empirebears who on the whole didn't care about losec and null rotting in front of their eyes as long as hisec was buffed, buffed, buffed."
"this is a game!do we need representation like some kind of world government? let ccp developed their game as they see fit, if you don<U+FFFD>t like it, unsub, simple. they have many tools better than the csm, send an email survey, talk to people in game ( i would love that), read their forums, look at 3rd party forums. the list is endless. which other game does this stuff? i think this community is spoiled and acts like a gigantic crying 12 year old. i really hope ccp just ignores us for a while and completes their vision. they have come this far, they have made a fantastic game even with its faults. i trust them a hell of allot more than some goose stepping jackass....i know i will hear <U+FFFD>but look at their track record, we are saving the game<U+FFFD> bull ****! i think the game would have been a hell of allot better if they didn<U+FFFD>t give into the cry babies. sure we lost some whiners, that is a good thing! we have had almost a decade of space expansions, and now we get yet another 0.0 expansion. go play another mmo and wait years for an expansion and months for updates. we can bite the bullet and play this fantastic game while ccp changes it into a game that will last another decade and i am sorry to say but that includes incarna, micros transactions, and much more scarry changes to fill your diapers with. what this game need more than supercap balancing is new players. ccp was on the right track with incarna, if they have a chance to finish, we derailed the train. now let them get back to work. i hope they swat the destraction that is the csm like an uwanted fly buzzing in your ear.(not directed at anyone person)"
"i hope they start by ignoring you(directed at one person)"
"this again? no."
"it doesn't really matter how democratic the process is - if you're looking for the voice of the customer, having a democratically elected panel is not as useful (adds less value to ccp) as the more quantitative techniques, much like the ones outlined by deucalion."
"not really. what i'm saying is that there are better, more effective ways of tapping into all areas of the eve universe. from what i understand, null sec is one of the more interesting aspects of this game - i appreciate those that try to carry this message to other players."
"as someone who works at a higher tiered customer support company/service.... your full of ####.quite literally....as in...get to the bathroom before it becomes a problem.you cannot and will not apply your so called \"logic\" of real world governments or businesses to a world of encouraged metagaming/piracey/scamming/thef/lying/cheating all of which is encouraged and what not.specially when you get \"yahoos\" like yourself who show up and start throwing around \"big words\" and \"so called i know better than you do about \"systems\"\" people who could make this game entirely worse off.and what makes me think i know better?well look at that start of your post.\"directed at ccp\"as if they would give you the time of day let alone the attention.intelligently written...but its obvious its coming from someone who has no idea how this game really works.hell even i have a hard time grasping it...but it's sure as hell not what you think it is.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"if you do work at a higher tiered customer support company (they have tiers?), i would assume that while you may not, someone in your organization is interested in feedback from the customer.i'm not sure which words were \"big\" for you, but i apologize if it wasn't clear. this proposal is for a better way of capturing the voice of the customer. what that voice says is not something i'm concerned with (ccp is though). how the game really works is an important part of the voice of the customer - since you claim to have a better grasp of it than i do, i'm sure cpp would be interested in your opinion.most organizations with a strong customer service focus (even higher tiered ones) care about what their customers have to say - why do you think ccp would ignore a customer who wants ccp to improve upon capturing the voice of the customer, for the benefit of their product?"
"i'll make it easy for you.customers are stupid.they think they know better...they want whats only gives them better advantage without care or concern for others.they would sooner destroy something such as suicide ganking in the name of their money and ignore the ramifications of such an action whilst giving the community the finger.based on that... with the way eve online is.....you have literally no hope in hell of getting even decent let alone quality feedback with all the garbage that comes flying through the door.it won't happen.... ever.like it or not...the csm is currently the best system in place...granted its a train wreck...but better than the foolishness you keep posting.and the worst part is you thinking ccp would give a crap.you want their attention?quit.otherwise you should vote or run for csm.edit: scratch that. i'm arguing with a bloody noob.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"while i disagree with your belief that the eve player-base is stupid, the intelligence of the customer doesn't matter. ccp needs to be concerned with all paying subscriptions. telling the customer what it wants is a dangerous thing to do in business.you're beginning to make me doubt that you have any idea of what customer service really is.your ad hominem arguments don't help. my tenure in the game is irrelevant to value of the voice of the customer."
"1.0"
"and who's voice is more valuable? the guys who create content for thousands, even tens of thousands of players out in nullsec, who create the things that actually hit outside news sites like the bbc, or the guys who sit in empire in a one man corp and run missions all day and never speak to anyone?"
"it's clearly the guy that creates the blobs. yeah, awesome content. eve would be so much worse off without them."
"as this fine gent. pointed out.you missed my poitn entirely and just picked apart the parts you where offended by.i didn't say the customer player base in eve is stupid.i said customers are stupid. in its literal form there is no relevance or relationship...its a general metaphorical term.your time is relevant...youve played this game for a little over a month..maybe 2...and you think you know whats best for us?seriously....get out.some of us have things to take care of and we don't have time to hand hold you.eve online is a cold harsh game....and your so called war drum beating in the name of \"customer service\" is heavily biased...and poluted.do i like suicide ganknig? no.but until someone can come up with an alternative method to nail someones @$$ to the wall in high security space with concord protection.... i suggest you take a hike.that is one of many examples of your so called \"customer service\" mantra that would ruin this game.the so called \"majority\" you see is not a majority...it is a mob of a small percentage of the population that thinks they know how this game should be when they are utterly outgunned...outnumbered...and over powered.ccp does listen to customers...but only in terms you'll never understand in your current prespective.sure as hell not going to give a crap over 1 little customer....needs to be something in the terms of 500 to 1000 before they pay attention.until you've put a good solid 6 months to a year into this game....you have utterly no business making \"game breaking\" decisions for the rest of us.and even then its suspect.i never suggest anything without weighing in all sides...including the \"dreaded piwat\" side...its their game too after all.that...is the real world of customer service. customer service by defintiion doesn't mean give them what they want...it means give them quality service...and that includes giving them the hard meassage...like \"your #### outa luck bub\" with a smile and a grin they couldn't yell at or punch.in short..get over yourself.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"the same, each pay the same sub fee. some of the \"news\" created by these people can be taken good or bad. stories of scams and death are great \"to some\" but stories of adventure and freindship appeal to others. if you love the game you will tell your friends, do your own advertising in your own way. just becasue 0.0 have the loadest people kicking up the most dust doesnt make them any better than anyone else playing this game. get off your high horse, you have no idea if the silent guy that plays by himself brought 100 of his freinds that play similarly. is it just me or does 0.0 sound like the babies crib of eve?grow up ffs"
"my experience of tiered support organisations is that a million appeals get ignored with a \"not broken won't fix\" response, whilst major accounts get their badly thought though demands agreed to over dinner with the ceo completely outside the support organisation. oh."
"my experience is 9 times out of 10 the customer is utterly stupid and knows better or does't read the bold typed large type print.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"the timing on these threads is so transparent it makes me laugh. for months, csm6 has worked hard to bring home a whole pile of successes. past csms have rarely had more than one or two items they can declare 'theirs'; csm6 is the most effective body yet. and, the truth is, most of the 'null' csm folks that feed your conspiracy theories are relatively inactive. trebor, two step and meissa are incredibly active in csm6, and they hail from no alliance - wormholes, hiseccers and lowsec. and working with them, the active null reps have gotten a lot done. but of course, that's not what your thread is about. your thread is about miners being blown up in hisec, so you woke up and wrote a lot of uninformed words about \"goon control\" of the csm while mourning your lost mining barge."
"well here is my thoughs on csm & ccp & eve-when i started playing eve going on 4 years ago now the general warnings that were being handed out at the time were -- eve is a game that you need to be committed to for a very long time (read years) and will cost you money to play.- eve is a game that is mean, difficult to understand, and even more difficult to learn in the extreme most ways.it seems to me that these two messages have been lost sight of here in the last year or so. these two reasons above are exactly why i play this game. there are some of the 5000+ that have now left that i really hope come back because they had the smart's, the patience, and the endurence that this game requires. my advice to the csm and ccp is ignore this call for ending the csm because it's the bad and wrong advice that got you sideways with the players that are really eve. the renewed direction your speaking of will bring you back to what you need to be --- the best, the toughtest, the most difficult to play, mmo in this world.ccp's sand box is eve online. the sand is owned by ccp. we pay them a monthly fee to throw the sand at each other. that is all that is here, so move along. nothing more to be seen."
"even i have my misgivings on the csm...but ending them is the wrong answer.they aren't perfect...and they are a little biased..if not more.but they are not the problem.and until people get it through their thick skulls...i fear this will continue...but i sure as heck won't allow smoe noob get it in his head he knows better...not until he gets alot more experince under his belt.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"excuse me mr mittani sir, can i have a minute of your time.your <U+FFFD>successes<U+FFFD> as you say, will help, if i may quote you again, <U+FFFD>a small and insular group of players<U+FFFD>.if i am correct in assuming that 80% of all eve players live in high sec and will never venture to 0.0 then 80% of the people playing eve dont give a **** what you have accomplished. they will never see it. this is what the thread is about not stroking your new found love of ganking.thanks for your timeyour typical high sec execrable iskmonger."
"you've missed the point of what i proposed. it's not about you, or \"goon control.\" i would of course assume that yourself and the other members of the csm would disagree with my position. it's also not about the relative successes of csm6 vs any other past, or future csm group. this is about finding a better way of reaching out to all of the players in the eve community - this doesn't appear to be happening currently.a common argument is that people should vote if they want a say. that's a fine position in government, but terrible in business. the csm was made to represent the eve community and provide feedback to ccp on how the player-base feels about game elements. what i'm saying is that there is a better way to accomplish this goal."
"by goons, for goons."
"you need to calm down. you also need to learn to read better.i'm not making any suggestions on how the game should be played. i'm making suggestions on how the feedback to ccp should be handled. please take a moment to consider the differences.you have said repeatedly that customers are stupid. from the point of view of ccp, we are customers. i have combined those two statements and concluded that you think eve customers are stupid.if you re-read what i'm suggesting, you'll see that i'm not at all trying to tell you or anyone else in eve what is best for them. i'm proposing looking at a solution that incorporates player feedback from a larger portion of the eve community. customer service isn't about giving the customer what they want, but only a fool would think that a business wouldn't want to know what the customer wants, and make an informed decision based on customer feedback.of course you're welcome to discount my opinion using any reason you'd like, including ad hominem attacks."
"only a fool would listen to a noob make suggestions and expect to be heard when he has little to no time put in.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"you're wrong on this. the strength of an idea has little to do with how much time someone has put in. you sound like the poster-boy for entrenched thinking and the old boys club.i would bet that ccp sees my money as just as green as yours. in fact, if you've been playing for years, and make enough isk in game to buy plex each month to fund your monthly fee, mine is greener.a business doesn't care about the money you paid in the past - they're concerned about the money you're going to pay them in the future, which makes us equal in terms of voice.your opinion is appreciated."
"drake calling someone else a fool or noob.once again, the pot has called the kettle black.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"yes jack we all know your so bitter and obsessed in smack talking me at every turn that your obviosuly butthurt.get over yourself.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i find it so gratifying when i hear gamers from other mmo's and even those from other games talk about the bad reputation that goonswarm has among the gaming community. it's calling **** \"mud\" but still funny none the less. you are basically the worst that gamers have to offer and unfortunately you decided to join eve. i still find it amazing how you think you are accomplishing so much when in fact you are doing more damage than good. and that has nothing to do with the csm as a whole. that has to do with who is currently on top of the csm not representing anybody in eve except his little minority and his own interests."
"actually, neither of those are true. however, it is somewhat amusing to see what lame meme you're going to come up with next, or other unintelligent drivel you're going to spray.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"yes jack..keep talkng because you cant help yourself.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"look who's talking.after mulling this one over...i don't think calling for an end to the csm is the answer. i think having some representation to ccp is better than having no representation at all. however...the problem does lie in the csm representing a small minority of the playerbase, primarily goonswarm due to mittani and vile rat, when they should be representing the entire playerbases best interests.what is needed for the csm is people who want to bring balance to not only nullsec but lowsec, highsec and wh space as well. right now the csm is pushing for everything to go to nullsec. they aren't pushing for anything else because mittani believes that the only part of eve that matters is his little corner in null. right now it is all about take abc's out of wh space and make them null exclusive. take ice out of high and make it low and null. neither of which bring any balance to eve at all but simply server to line the pockets of those in null. they will whine about the risk vs reward of null when in fact you can already make a vast amount more isk in null than you possibly could ever dream of in highsec. next up...remove gas sites from wh space and only put them in null. the point is an overall balance for everything needs to be reached and it wasn't accomplished with the past csm's and certainly won't be with the current csm. i would say \"vote for change\" in 2012 but we all saw what happened with that one. we need a csm that has no specific interest in any specific part of eve. we need a csm that isn't comprised of leadership from some of the worst that gamers have to offer. we need a csm that has a leader dedicated to improving eve and helping ccp not creating drama and embarrassing ccp to the general public.unfortunately what we need and what we are going to get are likely two entirely different things."
"everything you brought up is nothing more than rumoring and conjecture.gossip at best...csm talks about alot of things...and most of them get rejected or don't go that far.even then most of those subjects are not raised by csm but by other people.if your going to live in sheer paranoia then thats your choice...i gave up being fearful of changes in this game simply beacuase the bulk of what they bring in..in-spite of the in-game problems not taken cared of are not all that bad.csm is elected....if you got a problem..vote for what you want or run yourself.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"you're wrong again on this. the csm only has 10 members. not all areas of eve are going to be represented with only 10 members. this should not be a question of \"the most votes get to be the voice of the players.\" especially since the voter turnout was so low.again, this is an issue of listening to the customer (even the stupid ones). not just the customers who voted. ccp has an obligation to the eve community, and to itself, to ensure that it understands the concerns of the players - not just the ones that have played the game for several years, and not just the ones that are parts of large voting alliances."
"how many people are in thie united states?how many representives do each state have?pretty damn good to have 10 people for how many actual customers again?last i checked its really 20...they have auxirarly members as well.all this keeps showing is your lack of experince in this.ccp is obligated to make money and be a business...they will listen to cash...like it or not.we're lucky when they actaully do pay attention...and the only time they tend to do that is when they start losing accounts.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i have never heard someone blow so much smoke up his own ass. thats laughable. timing being people have had enough of you and the csm. your fellow goons may troll and kiss your ass mittani, but its clear you dont have the support you think you have outside your alliance buddies. its a little strange that lots and lots of people are now speaking out against you and goons. quite frankly ill say what people are thinking gtfo.is that hurting your ego? get over it....."
"csm6 is obviously rigged on what they battle for.however, it's a csm who make more changes needed happen to tq.that's an huge improvement.if you want them to listen to you, make sure to vote for the one who will represent your playstyle next time, that's all.but anyway i doubt csm7 will be so nullsec focused, as people will have realized they need to elect more high sec / others guys, and anyway the big changes for null will be already done."
"blaming the goons for something everyone does in-game on a daily basis is a bit of a waste of time.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"it seems that a large number of wh space seems populated by farmers who experience very little danger from other players in wh space even without local and think the reward is too big for the risk involved. i would suggest removing moons or removing the ability to anchor a pos in wh space. think this changes would also slightly improve low-sec because pilots would need to explore more instead of basing out of one and collapsing other wh until new spawns."
"wtf...i expected this from mittani...this is stupid. have you ever even lived in a wh? do you have any idea how much time and effort it takes to scan every day, to keep your pos fueled every day? have you been in a fight in wh space? do you have any idea how much risk can be involved with collapsing a wh even if you are keeping track of the mass going through? appearently not..."
"your joking right?your trying to troll to hard.-10/10================ stop the evemail spam!"
"mittani? no.you? in light of your recent ideas? saddly..yes.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"sure, but only if we remove stations from empire."
"1.0"
"imo only covert op ships should have the possibility to be cloaked all the time. using improved or prototype should require cap usage so you can't cloak for more than 1 hour or 30 minutes."
"necro'ing is bad mkay?================ stop the evemail spam!"
"damnit...this thread was buried..."
"missions:make missions more dynamic. create mini-arcs that will take you all over a region, or even span empires. maybe even create corporate missions and arcs that will require coordinated effort by a dozen players. basically, create more \"co-op\" content for those players who aren't interested in pvp.allow players to use lps to gain standings with other corporations friendly to the one they have lps with. if i've got an amazing standing with the caldari navy, why should i have to start over with spacelane patrol? shouldn't a navy agent be able to put in a good word for me so i can start running l4s?nerf highsec incursions. seriously, right now everyone who knows how to make isk in incursions is out there getting stupidly big paychecks for almost no risk. let the low/null incursions pay the big bucks, highsec incursions need to pay about half what they do now.highsec pvp:create new ways to generate pvp in highsec without it turning into a shooting gallery where the killmail junkies shoot noobs all day until there are no more noobs. bounty hunting is a popular idea. i've put forth the idea of creating concord deputies as part of a massive content addition in lowsec, something similar could be done in high. pvp missions might even be a possibility, though that might end up being too much like arena combat, something that should be avoided in a sandbox game.fix highsec war and aggression mechanics: since i got into highsec pvp two months ago, i've seen some really goofy things happen with wardecs and aggression. make it consist and logical. also, stop using the band-aid of \"that's an exploit, don't do it\" and instead correct loopholes and bugs as they are discovered.and yes, we've been warned about using wardec exploits since the announcement that there are no more wardec exploits. i love consistency.basically, there's no compelling story being told in highsec, and there's not enough freedom to write your own story the way it's done in nullsec. it feels more like a place you go to grind for isk, and less like a thriving metropolis in the wild west, which is what i think it should be like."
"this indeed :)my main gripe is not really high-sec or most of the thing in high-sec, it's the overflow from null or low-sec. it's the mouth-breathing vocal minority on the forums (and often in-game) that get some sort of twisted joy from ruining the game for others.the first paragraph of the ts is a direct reversal of the feeling most pirates have: \"hurr, i blow up ship, derp... you no want? learn2play nub, you play my way, in which i force my standards upon you because ccp lets everyone play the game the way they want to play it, or the highway. no, i won't let you execute ccp's prerogative to play the game the way _you_ want, you'll have to play it the way _i_ want\". and for what? the only thing i can think of is causing grief, because killing a miner (or even a mission runner) is just about as exciting or difficult as running a level 1 courier mission.i do realize however this is difficult to address, and i also realize high-sec isn't supposed to be 100% safe, but there are a lot forum threads indicating this is a regular problem for high-sec dwellers. to me, it's not even the blowing up part (even though that is quite annoying), it's the total (censored) attitude displayed very vocally by those l33t pvpers killing defenseless miners. it's like all human decency gets thrown out as soon as they board their combat vessel...but then again, this is eve, so i grew a pair and huffed up. i don't have to like that particular part of the game though :p"
"time to remind what the wise man said:pain is weakness leaving the body"
"time to ask you to read carefully ;) or perhaps, to not let your misconceptions cloud your judgements.it may seem ppl are asking for \"happy, happy, fluffy, fluffy lala land filled with fun and adventures\" if you're always on the receiving end of the stick and don't know any better, but if you can't distinguish basic, decent human interaction from badmouthing others and taking joy in their suffering you're part of the problem.well, you already are, because you are only contemplating one side of the equation (the one having the guns). it seems some ppl think \"happy, happy, fluffy, fluffy lala land filled with fun and adventures\" is ganking defenseless (at least, as long as they are playing the way _they_ want to instead of the way _you_ want them to play) high-sec dwellers. so i guess eve isn't for those pirates/gankers, and therefor, by your own words, they should go to hello kitty online..."
"note for vile rat about careers:not sure about the career path fixation. there are career paths in hisec:1) guys who work for paychecks (mission runners)2) guys who supply stuff (miners, pi, building, invention)3) guys who move stuff around (arbitrage traders, station traders, suppliers to low/null, professional contract haulers)4) guys who take stuff (suicide cargo gankers, can flippers, market/ipo scammers, ninja salvagers, corp infiltrators)5) guys who blow other guys up for a living (hisec wardec corps, some of the guys from category 4 once someone aggresses)6) guys who do meta-stuff (write an app, build a training program, player-run/sponsored events)in lowsec you have a few less options; you can do about everything you can in hisec, but some of it is less practical. add on open aggression careers like pirate and mugger. nullsec offers sovereignty. none of these choices are appropriate for hisec. lowsec's issues are many, and they're covered in a lot more threads.i don't think there's that much wrong with hisec as it stands today, apart from little illogical things like insurance for ships blown up by concord. ui issues, terribad wardec mechanics (including remote rep problems, why not put them on the killmails?), and the like affect everyone no matter where they choose to play. if you're looking for new and different career paths for highsec, there are a lot of great ideas. i'd like to see the existing problems get ironed out first though. hacking into a pos to weaken its defenses sounds interesting, as does being an organizer/bookmaker for an open series of combat tournaments, as does improved ai for npc rats. but these take cpu cycles and developer resources.note for vile rat about bounties:flat death bounties have never worked in any game. too easy to exploit. only way to make them not profitable is to set up a bounty escrow with concord that pays out for less than the value of the destroyed items like so:dead ship: everyone on the killmail splits 50% of the base value of the destroyed ship and destroyed fittings (not dropped), up to the amount in escrow. the killers also split the insurance payout, if for some reason the wanted pilot had insurance.dead pod: everyone on the killmail splits 75% of the base value of the implants plus 75% of the cost of the clone, up to the amount in escrow.this makes it unprofitable to get podded by your own alt, makes the pod potentially more valuable to kill, and a high-bounty target can be hunted for a very long time. if the target flies small ships instead of supercaps, it lowers the value of an individual kill, but keeps the escrow running longer.example:vile rat gets bountied by annoyed highseccers after he trolled them in assembly hall, for 100m isk total (cheap bastards). this goes into the concord escrow.he gets his cruiser blown up by 5 attackers. the loss in hull and destroyed modules is 50m isk. (dropped stuff is up for grabs.) each of the 5 attackers gets a 5m bounty payout [(50m*50%)/5]. the escrow goes down to 75m still on vile rat's head.they manage to nab his pod and all 5 get on the killmail. vile rat had implants, and their base value + the cost of his clone are 500m. 500m*75% is more than what's left in the escrow, so each attacker gets (75m/5)=15m for the podkill instead of [(500m*75%)/5]=75m.now if the bounty was significant, like 10b isk, not only does vile rat's pod become a potentially juicier target, but the escrow stays high enough that he can be hunted again and again. he can hide in a station or go out without implants, but the clone value still makes it worthwhile, and not having implants only makes the escrow last longer.adding a bounty to the destroyed ship is just a thought, as it gives a solo roamer a reason to go after a wanted pilot even if he might not be able to nab the pod. if that gets too complicated, just forget it and keep the 75% bounty on the implants and clone price.note about security in hisec:i don't want hisec to become safer than it is now. you should have to stay on your toes. for folks who think suicide ganks and the like are horrible, keep in mind that eve lets you figure out solutions and execute them on your own. you can shoot back. you can learn to transport valuable stuff safely. you can choose to not move ridiculous amounts of valuable stuff in a paper ship. you can learn to run a mission without blinging out 2 billion on a space pinata. you can even try being a bad guy for a while, and if you go back to your old lifestyle at least you'll be aware of what can happen.if you think griefing in eve is bad, there's grief play in every game. it's just that in most of them your only recourse is to petition. (toontown and puzzle pirates were fun to grief in.)just stay aware and don't risk ridiculous amounts of your net worth for stupid reasons."
"find out what ccp's intended income is for high sec.currently it is possible to easily farm incursions for 100+mil isk/hr. this is stupid and pubbie high sec players with the concord blanket of safety should not be able to attain these rates. the \"risk\" of incursion rats is not true risk, thus the reward should not be so high."
"+1 to dedicated ore gas mining ships ... t1 & t2 versions please .... it's dumb that there are no \"industrial strength\" ships or modules for gas harvesting.oh, and the ships should look like maids with vacuum cleaners in their handle just like in spacebal"
"as others have said, don't put a probe launcher on an industrial. that would be silly. the whole idea of the mining barge/exhumer is that it's a purpose-built ship that doesn't mix roles. do one thing, and do it well.i'm all for an ore gas miner."
"the facts speak for themselves, if people wanted constant pvp, they'd already be living in nullsec ... but they aren't ... you think if you remove their sand, they'll suddenly want yours?that's quite the big assumption ... are you really willing to risk eve's future on that?"
"do it!if you think we lost subs because of incarna, implement this idea and you will really see a drop in subs and not just the whinny 0.0 dickheads. but again that is the #1 objective for the csm, kill eve.your doing a great job csm keep it up, the more crap like this the sooner you will be gone......dont forget to put a timer on the posses when they all go off line there are gooing to be 100's of offline posses in empty highsec systems. i hope you retards like to mine becasue thats what you will be doing.o wait you have bots......"
"no thanks, i like my ice in high sec."
"this idea is actually quite brilliant."
"what he said.seriously...ccp lost a lot of subs from the anomaly changes then more when incarna released. do this and you will see it happen again but only because you are directly ******* over your largest player base...the high sec bears. why would you completely screw over a larger group of players just to appease the smaller group? nullsec doesn't need more ice. nullsec doesn't need to be the only place to mine ice. mittani already wants to remove abc ores from wh space so that nullsec can be the only place to mine that too. see a trend here? yeah."
"mentally-challenged idea. even thinking about spelling out the reasons why it's mentally-challenged is making me mentally-challenged. edit: damn filter"
"it is because nobody uses the word \"******\" correctly (including me) and those that call other people \"retards\" upset the \"retards\" and to keep the \"retards\" from crying other \"retards\" ban the word \"******\".it is a cruel never ending cycle.it looks like the plural of ****** is not a banned word though. isn't that ********? lol"
"no i think you should grow a brain buddy.selective reading is great, no?read what i wrote. everything in eve is geared to pvp. that is what i said. just because you sit and mine in a belt all day without shooting at anything does not mean you are not actively participating in the pvp element of eve. you are just doing it from a different perspective. where do you think all your minerals go? think about it before you open your gob and let hot air out.i have done all aspects of eve from actively shooting at other players, mining, pi, missions and plexes. i have done it all as most have. it's still a stupid idea to have a simulator of eve in eve."
"i love hearing the \"veteral pvp'ers\" whine .... \"oh no, the only possible pvp is our pvp\" .... \"no one else's sand is as good as ours, and to prove it, we want to take yours away\" .... blah blah blah ...again, if people actually loved nullsec / pvp as much as the \"only true pvp'ers\" claim ... they'd already be living in nullsec ... but they aren't ... veteran pvp'ers should be thankful to carebears for paying ccp to keep eve alive ... and should be thinking of ways to retain new subscribers rather than congratulating themselves on how great they are at killing noobs."
"adding \"virtual pvp\" in eve is adding risk-free pvp. that flies in the face of the entire notion of a sandbox where everyone is living in the same universe and everything you do has consequences. if every time you wanted pvp you could simply hop onto your virtual console and have a few fights without risk of losing any assets, you are removing yourself and the act of pvp from the sandbox.this isn't about \"our sand\" versus \"your sand\" this is the fact that you want to be able to step outside the sandbox and play in the house for a bit, for fear of getting dirty.this won't retain new subscribers."
"if you love \"real\" pvp soooo much, why are you so afraid people will stop \"real\" pvp'ing?i don't see the problem ... simulated pvp would come with no rewards, no reputation, no feeling of accomplishment ... same as \"dueling\" or whatever in (insert random other game name here with millions more players and millions more dollars to improve and sustain their game ecosystem, even though it's not as good as eve).true pvp will remain just that ... beloved and accessible to the elite few who aspire to it ... and the countless clueless noobs and carebears they love to prey upon :) i get a kick out of the \"nullsec pvp elite\" telling hisec carebears how great pvp is .... lol ... kinda like the fisherman telling the fish to jump into his boat, because of how awesome the \"bait\" there is .... hilarious."
"not sure if troll...if you're responding to me (you must be, as i'm the only one who posted since your last nonsensical post), then you really need to work on your reading comprehension. i never said people will stop. i said that virtual combat, virtual anything in eve flies in the face of the established notion that eve is one big sandbox and that the action of every player can affect every other player. what you're asking for is something that directly contradicts that.right now if you run missions and bring back mission loot and sell it, someone else is going to buy that loot and use it. if no mission runners bring back loot, meta 1-4 modules go up in price as the supply dwindles.pvp is the largest sink of minerals and loot modules in the game. if you introduce virtual pvp that *does* result in a drop in pvp losses, then all the minerals and loot will drop in price, damaging the market and making it harder for you carebears to make isk. you don't realize it, but you rely on us blowing stuff up :)i get a kick out of your assumption that i'm anything resembling \"nullsec pvp elite\"."
"again, i disagree with your assumption that virtual pvp would decrease the frequency of real pvp .... i suspect the opposite.and nah, banjo, i'm not assuming your one of the \"pvp elite\" (though you, or i even, could very easily be for all any of us know) ... the reply was intended to be more general than that :) (and the term \"pvp elite refers more to how highly \"they\" (a certain very arrogant class of pilot) think of themselves, not their actual skill)"
"i again state (more or less) what i said earlier in the thread... when you can get your rocks off doing ship to ship combat in a \"virtual environment\" against other players without gain or loss... why risk actual isk and effort looking for \"real\" pvp?"
"sweet god no. no. no. every so often someone comes along with an idea to make arena pvp, and we all hate it, so just no."
"interesting that people hate the thought of \"arena pvp\" ... but love the idea of alliance tournament, etc.? --> seem very similar to me .... and i don't think isk losses (compared to \"real pvp\") are the real factor at play .... there's something deeper isn't there?"
"how much pvp happens in wow outside of instances since battlegrounds were introduced?hint: its almost none"
"lawl, really, lawl. the tournament is once a year and losses are real - eve real - that is. you **** and moan about bitter pvpers not wanting change, but what you're after is instance pvp, like wow or world of tanks. if you really want instance pvp that bad, play wot while your mining veld in the background. leave eve alone."
"so if incarna and walking around in stations is going to be a permanent addition to the game, then ccp needs to go all out and give us players machinima tools. we all loved the clear skies trilogy movies. even gamers who don't play eve appreciate them, but the director had to rely on half life 2 graphics and animations to fulfill the non ship part of the movies.now that we have incarna, we have actual characters. ccp needs to go all out and give us the tools for us players to create our own movies and clips. ccp, let incarna really shine by giving players some creative control.as it sits now, incarna seems to lack any sense of focus or direction. we get the impression that it's more of a gimmick or an excuse to create a micro transaction business model rather than an actual part of the game.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"i'd rather see an in-space replay recording system first, similar to team fortress 2's where you can load up the scene and replay it from other angles and such later.less space barbie, more space ships."
"you know, call me crazy, but i'd rather ccp work on actual game content then waste time with movie-making tools."
"i really just want to se the ability to run with my character in station. i'm just saying...it already takes 5 minutes to get from my ship to the other end of my captains quarters walking. if they want to make it even bigger i don't want to have to take 30 minutes just to get to the bar to watch the dancing girls. make a ******* run animation...tie it to \"shift\" and let us ******* run.oh...and bouncing boobies..."
"i wanted incana with sov wars inside massive stations. not captain quarters. i wanted to be able to leave my ship and gun-up in station. i wanted to fight reds or war decs inside massive stations. i wanted a real time mmorpg element with 2k other payers in real time in jita 4 4.the problem with ccp implementing my wish is a limitation of current computer technology. ccp can't tweak eve to let it run a single instance jita 4 4 station with 1,500 to 2,000 players in real time and in the same station. this was the real problem with developing incana in eve's existing platform.ccp decided to develop fps avatar content to run on a separate platform, in the form of the ps3, and on a separate instance; on a planet surface, rather than in existing space stations with existing eve characters.ccp took this bold decision because of the insurmountable technology issues of making a reasonable fps with 2k players. i don't think you can have a game like that with 2k players while maintaining >20fps even with wow graphics let alone wod graphics. what's the point in being able to walk around in station if you can't interact with the other 1,500+ people in the station. allowing us to walk out of an empty captain's quarter and into an empty station or a station with only npcs to interact with...what's the point of that? why even bother spending resources on that? i'm glad ccp spent resource on a workable fp avatar model like dust than expanding cq into walking around empty station."
"you make it sound so fun! how can i not gank stuff after posts like this?the risk vs reward would completely disappear for miners if you had your way. mining in highsec would be utterly risk-free, and that's what you want. when i enter a wormhole and run anomalies, my pve ship can't take on most pvp ships. that's a risk. the noctis i use to salvage the sleeper wrecks is even more vulnerable. that's another risk i take. why do i accept these risks? because there's profit to be made.this is eve. go do something dangerous for a bit."
"you completely miss my point. i am not saying remove the ability for someone to gank. i am saying make it a lot more difficult. the risk vs reward for the miner isn't the issue. its the risk vs reward for the gankers that is. gankers deliberately lose their ship with no risk of being podded and have a huge reward depending on the target. usually way more than the dinky ship they lost. that is the problem! lose 1 100 mill ship for a reward of anything from 0-god knows what. only an idiot ganker targets a ship that has little of value in its hold. we have seen gankers make billions off a single hauler kill and what did they lose? a few measly points of sec status and a cheap ass ship. is it clearer now? risk vs reward unbalanced!"
"if you're hauling high value goods in an easily-ganked ship, you're an idiot and need to shut up and accept that you took a big risk and lost. remember that industrial ships cost far less than the battleships used to gank them. what you want is higher penalties from ccp because you can't be bothered to carry a billion isk worth of goods in a ship able to withstand a single gank ship. freighter ganks require a lot more firepower than 100 million isk can put on the field.once again: risk versus reward. if you want to be a cheapass and haul expensive stuff in cheap ships, you run the risk of being ganked with cheap ships. if you want to protect your goods, get a freighter. use a blockade runner so you can cloak up and avoid being scanned. move it in a battleship. hire a courier that can cover the price of your stuff on collateral. don't autopilot. learn to watch your surroundings. there are ways to avoid being ganked. i've never lost a hauler to a highsec gank, even when transporting absurdly expensive goods in a bestower.podding gankers won't fix the problem. go ahead and do it, it'll save us the trip back to where we stored our gank ships."
"eh, the only annoying thing about all of it is that the t2 exhumers are made out of paper and are easily killed with something costing a few million isk. even if you *do* tank them, it's like spitting in the wind for the most part. a fully tanked hulk is about 22k ehp while the mackinaw only gets up to 13k ehp. if they had about 20 more cpu and another 50-75 pg, they'd be a lot more viable.in comparison, the orca was a well designed ship by ccp - because you can fit it in a variety of ways as anything from a fragile max-cargo version to a well-tanked version or something in between."
"this.... the argument of \"well life sucks get a helment\" in eve loses its value when you start spitting hard data on tankability of mining ships these days.not saying mechanics suck.just saying...its too easy gank sa it is.some....not much but some consideration should be given to defensive capabilities.it's not enough for me to get loud and crazy about...yet...but its a problem that's becoming a little too obvious.it would be nice to require a little bit more than a single ship to gank a tech 2 \"mining barge\" ship for crying out loud.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"thats a better approach. change corporation management to 2x with +1 members per levelbump mega corp and empire control to 5x and 7xinsert a new 4x skill giving +5 members and also needing social vanddrop the mechanic that allows an unskilled player to inherit control of corps and alliances."
"looks like he is listening to those bothered by the goon and null-sec slanted csm. \"but some of my concerns right now relate to whether the csm is maybe focused on a particular aspect of the game and i'm starting to get feedback from players that they worry the csm is too pre-occupied by a certain playstyle. that might mean we may need to change the structure....\"eurogamer interview"
"a: proof or get out.b: dont hold your breath.c: all of the above.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i to would like to see where you got that quote from.proof or it did not happen."
"op edited to add link."
"an itnerview isn't something i'd hold much stock in....i'd be more keen on a devblog at that rate.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"assuming what is in this interview is actually what was said and legit then this can only be a good thing. i take this article as a hint that ccp see's the problem but hasn't found a resolution yet. i would expect to see a devblog someday with more information and what they intend to do to correct said issue."
"a step in the right directin, is still a step :)"
"why is it a problem that ccp's pr tool is focussed on the part of the game that actually generates headlines and interest from external media?when was the last time you guys did something to affect the way thousands of people play the game?"
"so i am not sure where this came from...i saw an image somewhere i think or i had a hallucination. either way this would be cool. we all want corp and alliance logo's on ships. i propose it not be a paintjob but a holographic glowing image that hovers slightly over the hull. not sticking straight up in the air on top of the ship or nothing but placed in a few spots on each ship depending on the size of the ship and flat against the hull just raised up a bit and glowing.if this was already proposed somewhere or ccp has already stated this is being done then please disregard this post. but please provide a link to said image or thread."
"seriously? this idea is far better than my boobies thread and its getting more attention. nobody thinks this would be cool for logo's on ships?"
"restricting a module bonus to certain shiptypes seems dubious. i'm all for 'railguns have integrated sensor systems', that's a cool idea... but if an amarrian or minmatar captain wants to mount railguns too, i don't see any reason to **** on them."
"tbh been looking at the numbers in evehq and looking at the bonuses itd bring compared to logi lock times the 5% is still lacking so id be tempted to boost it to 10% per turret (with no stacking penalty btw)yahh and drop that race id thing i think. it was more there to encourage use of lesser used pvp ships... bt tbh they individually need to be rebalanced instead of having additional trinkets bundled in with them."
"+1 for option 2have fun - make isk - no drama no api's - no wars - no awoxing - no kidding! hogs is open for recruiting! join our in-game channel \"airhogs\""
"i can not resist this thread about boobs ...i do have to ask, since you're av is alone in a room, no one will see boobs bounce but you. i must assume you have a female av to \"play with\". should ccp add some dance moves and maybe wiggling sexual poses to the sofa so you can um, \"watch\" your av one handed?sorry, i could not resist, don't take this response personally. :)necessity is the plea for every infringement of human freedom. it is the argument of tyrants; it is the creed of slaves. - william pitt"
"you're in luck. we now have the technology to minimize running programs and bring up pornographic web sites. you can see all the bouncing boobies you want. isn't the future wonderful?summary of eves last four expansions:"
"i support adding jiggly boobs in game. anyone who disagree with me or other wise say boobs shouldn't jiggle a bit in a realistic fashion is a raging homesexual. end of thread. end of debate."
"i am sure that in time when wis is fully realized we will be able to see other players."
"simply because some of us (namely you) spend their entire life on a game and thus have never seen a boob.flamers gonna flame.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"the problem i have with name changing is the ability to see who's in local in the area i currently live in. this means that i know most of the bad guys at a glance, know what they fly and how they behave.allowing name changes for everyone would lead to a lot more effort for the people that do live in an area for awhile(read null/low, less population so easier to know everyone around you). i think i would allow a name change only once per character on an account if it was due to a bad choice of name for someone but as to giving people carte blanche to change whenever they felt like it a definite no go for me i am afraid. i still think this would only affect a small number of subscribers as most people once they've chosen a name identify with this name so are likely to keep it anyway.i probably wouldn't have chosen the name i have on my main account but it's me now and i will never change it."
"this topic has been going on for a year now with the same arguments going back and forth without any new contributions for the last 6 months. you have touched upon the key factor here in your mention of the fact that this indeed should affect only a small fraction of the population. (i brought up this same point earlier this year in the old thread in the old forums) anyone who has been been in these forums long enough and who can read between the lines can see that the real hidden agenda here has nothing to do with charity for those few cases of badly named characters who want to have it changed to improve their sense of self worth and enjoyment in the game. that's just the charitable front. what it is really for is the sanctioned legalization of systematic 1 time name changes for everyone. which can only benefit 2 demographics, those who buy farmed characters, and those who sell farmed characters. (not that there is anything illegal about the farmed character market)"
"and there is never a new bad guy? whats the difference if there comes some new contact in local and blows you up, or some of the old ones changes name and blows you up...but anyways, most of us are for one time change per account, so that wouldn't really be a great deal for pirates and alike"
"bigger voice...we need more x's to be noticed!"
"this i agree with. i'd like to say this. i've introduced a lot of people to the game, and not one of them has ever used a reactivated trial account to do it. there are a few reasons for this. people usually don't remember the login credentials for a 4 year old account.steam often has $5 eve sales, but these only cover new accounts, not existing ones, including trials.the buddy system only works for new accounts, not existing ones, including trials.basically, theres zero incentive for people to use an old account.also, i know that new players don't really understand this, but two weeks is not a lot of training time. if they have to retrain it, they'll deal with it somehow, poor muffins.so ya, if you've paid for an account, that should reserve your name and account indefinitely. but all abandoned trials more then a year old should be deleted."
"edit: lowered ship explosion value to 25% due to insurance shenanigans; see post 14. changed values are in bold.pulled from vile rat's thread on highsec, since it affects players everywhere:flat death bounties have never worked in any game. too easy to exploit. only way to make them not profitable is to set up a bounty escrow with concord that pays out for less than the value of the destroyed items like so:dead ship: everyone on the killmail splits 25% of the base value of the destroyed ship and destroyed fittings (not dropped), up to the amount in escrow. (deleted the insurance thingy since i forgot to do it before, doh; yeep reminded me about it.)dead pod: everyone on the killmail splits 75% of the base value of the implants plus 75% of the cost of the clone*, up to the amount in escrow.(base value determined by typeid, not by market value. i need to look up implant base values to see if they need adjustment. <-- clarification)this makes it unprofitable to get podded by your own alt, makes the pod potentially more valuable to kill, and a high-bounty target can be hunted for a very long time. if the target flies small ships instead of supercaps, it lowers the value of an individual kill, but keeps the escrow running longer.example:vile rat gets bountied by annoyed highseccers after he trolled them in assembly hall, for 100m isk total (cheap bastards). this goes into the concord escrow.he gets his cruiser blown up by 5 attackers. the loss in hull and destroyed modules is 50m isk. (dropped stuff is up for grabs.) each of the 5 attackers gets a 2.5m bounty payout [(50m*25%)/5]. the escrow goes down to 87.5m still on vile rat's head.they manage to nab his pod and all 5 get on the killmail. vile rat had implants, and their base value + the cost of his clone are 500m. 500m*75% is more than what's left in the escrow, so each attacker gets (87.5m/5)=17.5m for the podkill instead of [(500m*75%)/5]=75m.now if the bounty was significant, like 10b isk, not only does vile rat's pod become a potentially juicier target, but the escrow stays high enough that he can be hunted again and again. he can hide in a station or go out without implants, but the clone value still makes it worthwhile, and not having implants only makes the escrow last longer.adding a bounty to the destroyed ship is just a thought, as it gives a solo roamer a reason to go after a wanted pilot even if he might not be able to nab the pod. if that gets too complicated, just forget it and keep the 75% bounty on the implants and clone price.*clone cost: since clone cost is in flux and not necessarily directly related to sp, use the cost of a clone that would cover the wanted player's sp. over- or under- cloning doesn't count, and just results in expense or sp loss as normal."
"most elegant! +1"
"as someone already pointed out, the csm is better than nothing at this point in time.how do you propose we get a more balanced view of the 'customers' of eve?there are 10 members, only 2 of them are goons so i seriously doubt that mittani and vile rat are running the show and telling everyone else what to agree to. you also have ccp representatives there who will not allow one alliance to run eve their way. there will be balances and checks on anything proposed.eve has been here since 2003, it's now 2011 and it's still the best mmo out there because ccp do listen (eventually) to their customers. csm just helps them a long a little but doesn't dictate ccp's ultimate strategy for their business, only ccp can do that."
"for youthis is a space ghost from coast to coast, talking about csm and goons.enjoy"
"i wholeheartedly approve of this product and or service.give this man a bells.+1"
"csm are hardly even active within the community. even their own forums section. they work more for their alliance than the game community as a hole. i see their posts once in awhile nothing really productive comes from it. yeah sure you read their logs but what good is that really?i support their removal due to their uselessness to the community as a whole."
"feh, not even an interesting troll..."
"you've obviously never lived in a wormhole ever. your ignorant statement is proof enough. just yesterday we lost an orca in pvp inside our wormhole. we get neutrals coming and going inside our wormhole all the time. we have to arm ourselves and keep vigilant at all times to stay alive. very little danger from other players my ass.the reward is only for those who can take it. not every corp who waltzes into a wormhole become wealthy. many corps who choose wh life fail because they cannot keep up with the costs of pos fuel or the constant harassment of other players. i would suggest actually living in wormhole space first before forming an opinion about it.without exploration there's nothing to be had in wormholes. seriously, your ignorance of wh mechanics and life is one thing, but having the gall to form opinions about a subject you clearly know nothing about reeks of stupidity.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"troll or not, biomass yourself."
"remove pos for c1-c2, maybe c3 holes. they're impossible to kill given wh limit. and it would free up holes for beginner wh explorers from highsec to get into the trade."
"not anymore.....wait for tier 3 bc's.pos bashing just got a little more interesting.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"doesn't even say it. my iq dropped reading this."
"or ... maybe throw up your own pos, build stuff... bash theirs (yes, it's a long campaign... but if you're that interested in bashing the other pos...)"
"\"too much of space is taken up by people putting up structures that are too hard to destroy\" .... \"there's no reason casual boneheads shouldn't be able to easily destroy other peoples (weeks and months of hard work hauling, constructing, etc.) structures on a whim whenever they want, easily and without having to work hard for it\".also, just b/c there's a pos inside a wh, doesn't keep you from raiding all the sites, which is evidently all you intend to do anyway ..."
"this is a great thread.i know i've been conditioned as a young player to not trust anything with \"goon\" as a prefix - but from reading this thread i have new found respect for the op.this idea seems pretty out there - but what about the idea that players, through large cooperative actions, could change the security status of certain areas.i.e. through a concord directed set of objectives, a section could move from 0.4 to 0.5.the reverse could also be true - by connecting with pirate groups, a system could be moved from 0.5 to 0.4."
"half page long post eaten, wonderful attempt 2ok, the opinion of a (mostly) high sec resident, who transits low regularly, and used to live in null (prior to warp to 0 ).i honestly don't think that high needs 'buffing' in any way. in fact my feeling from a few runs is that incursions have excessive payouts (though the benefits of gang experience is great). what high needs is bug fixing, which would improve life in null/wh also. i know pos are being worked on, and thats great. my big concern is honestly more that there are large powerblocks in null that feel high needs nerfing to death. they have messed up their own kitty litter with 'supercaps online' and too many blues, and seem to feel that the cure is to destroy high sec. all this would achieve is more lost subs and even less devs/community reps than we currently have. the fix? my discussions with alliance members and randoms in high sec systems seems to indicate that a large portion want to move to null or wormholes[u][/u] however the price of admission is too high, be it time (which there isn't much anyone can do about) or more importantly, the repulsion towards being renters or 'pets' to a massive superblob alliance. so in a funny way, the best way to 'improve high' might well be to concentrate on null (and likely add a series of new wormholes). this would have the benefit of improving high sec markets, giving people something to aim for outside of high sec, and encouraging the bored ex-nullsec types to get out and stop annoying the living &^%& out of everyone in high (this has been a problem since maybe feb/march at least - the death of the nc was not kind to high sec).my reading of various solutions lead me to some by malcanis on how to limit easy travel and reduce the superblobs influence without artifical means that would ruin the 'sandbox' feeling. i must admit to being impressed by them.in summary: fix bugs (which helps everyone) and do something about the mess in null. the flow on effects should be outstanding for high sec residents. p.s in my time of living in null we had no warp to 0, no jumpbridges, very few eggs (ascn had only just laid their first one iirc), no anoms and no billion isk plexes, yet we survived, and thrived extremely well. isk is not the problem imho. bring back the feeling of being of an adventure, in a wild frontier, limit the superblobs ability to project power anywhere on the map and give people something to work on as a group, outside of random destruction and structure grinding, and i suspect null will thrive. oh and kill the bots.sadly many of the problems seem to be player created, null is now basically a crappy version of high sec run by super factions with the main difference being war decs are not required to shoot at opponents. it should be a frontier of adventure.apologies for the derail, however i really feel this is relevant to your question. all eve is interconnected, and if one part falls ill we all suffer as has been the case over the last 12 months. derail off -/"
"agreed -- null already has the best isk in the game ... yet only a minority of players live there ... isk is not their main concern ... they're looking for adventure ....find a way to actually attract players to nullsec, rather than trying to force them there ... forcing will only result in lost subs.at the end of the day, most players simply aren't attracted by 24x7 pvp living under the thumb of some large powerbloc ... that level of politicking and (for average pilots) isk loss is simply never going to be \"fun\" for most players .... your average joe already slaves away 12 hrs a day working under someone's thumb or feeling bullied by people with more money than they can ever hope to have ... why play a game (nullsec) that's just more of the same? sure it's great for those on top ... but most people by definition will never be on top.nullsec alliances are great - they have their critical place in the large backdrop of eve ... but what will attract and keep \"average\" players, are new types of gameplay and new territories, made more accessible to a lower experienced / less pvp skilled class of pilot.the nullsec elite can denigrate this all they like, but should realize that it's this huge bulk of more average / armchair players that are needed to feed the ccp subscription engine so we can keep eve alive. if you want them to stay and keep paying, you've got to give them a reason .... and they've already told us (by not living in nullsec) that nullsec life, is not very attractive ...."
"+1 on this bounty ideanecessity is the plea for every infringement of human freedom. it is the argument of tyrants; it is the creed of slaves. - william pitt"
"no it doesn't. what makes sense is that there is more profit in null and low moongoop. there is nothing stopping ccp from having a new set of moongoops that can be found in high sec that are all new and take none of the profit from null or low sec.what doesn't make sense is keeping moongoop and moon operations a mystery to those that would like to try it out, and then perhaps grow into low and null sec operations. having something in high sec to fight over, moons, planets, resources, may be just what high sec needs and may be just the right level of \"training ground\" that encourages more people to pvp, learn the ropes in \"saftey\" and then go out into the big red part of the map.necessity is the plea for every infringement of human freedom. it is the argument of tyrants; it is the creed of slaves. - william pitt"
"oh my underwear. what did you do !but seriously though. this idea is awesome. some csm guy or ccp devs, please, give some feedback about this thingy. it looks, wonderfull. really. awesomeness concentrated in a wall of text."
"what i'm looking for in high sec is exactly the same that i look for in low sec and that i'd probably look for in null if i found an incentive to venture there:i want to immerse into (the illusion of) a living, breathing world, not just a \"game\". places i visit should be interesting, with backgrounds by both players and npcs visible and easily accessible. i want to see a difference if the planet next to me has a population of 10 billion or none. things should \"make sense\" and not disrupt the illusion.i want a universe that changes. i want random events that change the game locally. i want markets, rats and system security that change dependent on player activity. i want places that are not frequented to offer more and better missions and former hubs that have become deserted. i want a different jita every few years.i want lots of things to do that are actually interesting, with depth and variety. missions that are not ever-the-same, smuggling that works, trading that requires more than updating my orders, mining that includes a set of tools and decisions that make it a challenge, etc.. i want to be able to get better at things not just by training to level 5 but because i devised a better tactic. i want every of these systems to be as complex as fitting and combat currently is.i want there to be choices and consequences. i want standings to npc corps, sec status and fw results to really affect my options. i want to be able to antagonize faction x so that they will never let me dock again. i want there to always be a tradeoff with every decision. i want death to really hurt. i want to be surprised at every corner. i don't want to be able to predict everything. i want branching missions that i don't know where they will lead by visiting a website. i want to be able to get incredibly lucky or really misfortunate."
"also, this is brilliant. + 1 a billion times.shouldn't there be a seperate proposal for this somewhere?"
"so the actual bounty is escrowed and the payout depends on the actual cost to the person losing it?this is really good, i like this a lot. it doesn't create new money in the game since you have to put it up front and it causes you to only get paid if you cause hurt to the person who died.thank you for offering this idea, i'm going to see if it can get some legs."
"okay.much obliged. yes, it's an isk sink, makes it financially incorrect to kill yourself, and bountying the ship makes the target a primary in gang/fleet (which can lead to interesting dynamics, like a high-bounty player in a pure bait tank) and also gives a solo player a reason to take a shot."
"i support booster/low sec improvements. boosters are really just used by active tanked cap pilots and so hard core low sec players. other than that not really used. would love to see more of them."
"eve sounds need a redo.eve needs a new sound engine as the foundation because the current one is obviously too poorly written from the ground up. better sound channel management (no more cut-offs, no more disabled sounds) better sound playback engine (no more superloud guns which is stupid in the first place. soundwaves (or the volume, or the power) do not multiply or \"stack\", they simply overlap, so 8 guns firing together should only sound slightly louder not 8 times louder and blowing up my speakers) better directional enumeration. (like a real directional engine not just \"louder left louder right\"?) on top of the technical foundation of a new sound engine, we need better made sound effects. hollywood class recording and sampling and production (we like they way you did the new nabulae. do it the same way to the sounds!) trash all the effects you got from that cheap soundeffectlibrary cd no more lo-fi cracking sounds that clips the sound (some sound effects are made too loud to begin with) the overall feel of all the sounds should be deep and rumbling and epic. low frequencies should be the dominating tone of the sounds. things in eve are all in massive scale and they don't really give off much high frequency noise. not sounding like the ships come with cheap plastic toys speakers. feel free to add to the list.tldr: 1. new sound engine, 2. new sound effects."
"ahh what the heck... the gate sound is a little under whelming... would be nice to see some sound reworks."
"supporting this. sound needs a serious overhaul."
"can you add the jukebox problems to that? (never ending scrolling issues along with others) been broken for some of us for over 2 years. all you usually get from support is something along the lines of \"we know about this issue\""
"eve has sound?"
"i am a curator of one of the largest eve online fan sites.running by forum estimates we hover around 20 thousand active members. we have a registered population of 46 thousand members.our website is dedicated to eve online discussion.we have many alliance leaders and csm members who visit our site to discuss their agendas and news.our team have worked to welcome ever larger numbers of players from various alliances and corporations, as well as to promote discussion and news from many different sides.we have many posters who are no longer subscribed to eve online and yet still continue to visit our site.and yet anyone who mentions the name of the site is censored automatically by this forum.if ccp hilmar is honestly dedicated to repairing the grievous damage to ccp's reputation, if he is open to new strategies to reignite interest in the game, it is time for eve to no longer censor the name of one of the largest fan communities in eve online.i therefore propose that the csm and ccp make an effort to restore the largest fansite of eve online to its rightful place as an acceptable word and topic on any official ccp website.if ccp cannot allow this to occur, i propose that they make clear the reasons for their continued ban to the csm who should provide guidance and advice on their decision.you do not have to promote or respect the site, but you should respect the people who visit it as part of their integral eve experience."
"if it's the fail heap website you're referring to, then good riddance. that place is worse than wow forums and diarrhea combined.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"i support this proposal!"
"support this proposal!"
"let our people go!"
"i am not a representative of fhc. fhc has 1200 active members and 3800 total members. however if they are censored i would hope their situation is reviewed as well."
"it's me. i'm the censored website in the op."
"kugutsumen.com also has the advantage of being the only eve site with a theme that is safe for work. the pleasant blue on white is similar enough to microsoft technet that i don't even have to rush to close the window when my boss comes by.edit:whoa, i literally can't type the name of the website.what the heck?why is that name profane?"
"this site gives us a place to post when 80% of these forums are full of drawl... +1"
"this forum atleast has a negrep option, end the oppression uncensor kugu."
"if they are censored it's a good thing."
"the original kugu kind of ticked off ccp what with revealing the whole t20 thing. he was banned and his name censored. the website has been unlinkable ever since."
"i knew that story, but it's pretty hilarious that his name is now censored and you can't even link the kugu website.so is the name of everyone who has been banned censored? lol"
"free kugu"
"nope. k is a special case."
"i approve"
"if hillmar wants a new start let it be here.free kug u tsu men."
"i support this product/service/idea."
"the time for action is now!"
"supporting this"
"ok let me not ever post on eve-o again this was pushing it"
"i support this cause.free kugu!"
"free us"
"i support this product and/or service."
"k is for kneejerk reactionsu is for uncensored (requires mod approval)g is for greenbarsu is for useless attempts at whitewasht is for techno vikings is for small-minded feudsu is for u mad bro will get you infractedm is for mullae is for exponentially more entertaining than eve-on is for never stop posting"
"what was the reason given by ccp to have this website censored in the first place?"
"you have a short summary on the first page:"
"free plox"
"we welcome change and openness; for we believe that freedom and security go together, that the advance of human liberty can only strengthen the cause of world peace. there is one sign ccp can make that would be unmistakable, that would advance dramatically the cause of freedom and peace. hilmar, if you seek peace, if you seek prosperity for ccp and eve online, if you seek liberalization, come here to this gate. hilmar, open this gate. hilmar, hilmar, tear down this wall!"
"free kugu.it's time to get over the fact that someone outted a cheating dev. let's all move on into a bright shitposting future together."
"i support this."
"keep him banned if you want, but you can't deny that kugu.com is one of (if not *the*) biggest eve fansites, and deserves recognition as such."
"free kuguwhy u mad ccp?"
"free kugu!"
"as a scrublord pubbiefgt that lurks kugu more than i log into eve, i approve and/or endorse this product/service"
"free kugu"
"die noobwaffles"
"free k.com"
"let my people post!"
"supporting this proposal. free kugu at long last!excellent and reasonable op posting, i hope ccp takes the time to carefully review the post prior to locking this thread."
"free kugu"
"definitely."
"its full of the biggest douches and scum of eve. ran by pl idiots. your numbers of membership etc is bs. there are only so many (usual suspects) that post on k,com.all the same idiots and epeen losers that should stay there. it really is the sespit of eve players.....never ever supported...ever.....oh at least make the site look decent instead of a crappy basic forum template....get out and stay out"
"i'm pretty sure they have posters from pretty much every major nullsec alliance in eve. nice attempt at a troll though. i'm sure some highsec ice miners thought you were being serious."
"supported.free kugu."
"won't it be overrun by \"ban 2011-2012 scrub poster\" threads again??not sure if support.... the censorship of the name is so petty on ccp's part, i think it attracts the curious and keeps t20 and ccp's behaviour in question.free alex tho :p love the negrep drahma"
"free kugudual pane idea: click!"
"hey i take offense to that! i'm an ice miner and i visit the site on a regular basis. only not a member because... well, i don't like talking much... i tend to say stupid things like this whole stupid sentence.oh and supported. because its stupid that it is censored.and did anyone notice that ccp \"fixed\" the bug where if you did quote it would show the original word?"
"its not about people not researching, its about csm being deaf about requests."
"many corps are already preparing a large action versus ruling rogue and grief alliances,dust514 will receive a huge number of free corps players that will battle against these undesired people.as these alliances are pretty much involved in csm we will not support csm anymore. instead we will build a new mining coalition.different from short minded csm we will support and help ccp to prepare and deploy revenues initiatives to improve their profits and let them better invest in our beautiful eve and dust universe.all miner corporation have been subject to the intolerant and abusing power of ruling alliances in low and null sec. high sec space is no longer safe and concord does not provide any security for those that are interested in a free and prosperous space...butwhat if all mining corporations joined to create a big and unprecedent alliance?what if griefing and can flipping alliances would not be able to enter high sec anymore?what if jita was no longer a place where they could replenish their missing productions?what if someone leaded the creation of the \"mining syndicate alliance\" to beat the big guys?what if we freed low and null sec for everyone?lets restore faith in the galaxy....we can lead this process and free the opressed corporations from abusive mining embargoes, hulkaggedons and mackageddons.inspire yourself.....you have what it takes to do it....(watch it in hd)"
"i lol'dgood luck"
"its about putting some salt & pepper. lolfly safe dude."
"great video (needs a more epic soundtrack though!)i think a mining cartel would be an interesting idea if you could do it."
"thanks for the post.everyone is invited to join...agree on the soundtrack....prolly il change it.any suggestions?"
"i was kidding about the soundtrack - that's actually one of my favorite songs. (it's going to be in my head all day now thank you very much) i does have a different feel to it if you watch requiem for a dream though."
"ok, thanks. im open to suggestions about soundtracks...."
"oh god yes please do this it would be hilarious"
"thanks noobwaffle."
"not emptyquoting"
"let's face it, in order to survive, eve needs more subscribers ... if you want to keep them, you'll have to appeal to a broader audience (and yes, that may mean doing a few things like ..... the other mmo's out there) ... that may mean doing things hardcore pvp'ers don't respect .... but most players, are not and never will be hardcore pvp'ers ... the magic, if ccp can make it happen, will be to please both playerbases ... not one or the other ... the game ecosystem can't survive nor expand like it needs to based on hardcore pvp'er subs alone ... it doesn't matter which side of the argument you're on, this is the reality."
"lol man, i hate to say this becasue i hate it when others say it in the forums (i just find it a stupid thing to say) but im gonna say it here and i mean no offense at all by it.eve is not the game for you. sorry :("
"i agree with you that t2 barges are a bit too easy to kill but having said that, if you are not afk mining and an obvious combat ship jumps into your belt, wouldn't you be likely to watch them closely? if they start burning towards you, wouldn't you be spamming the warp button? of course you did align to a station or a safe spot, right?if you are afk mining then this is your own fault. if you are not watching local and you allow another ship that's obviously not there for some ore to close on you, then this is your fault.same with being ganked in a paper thin hauler. use the tools you have and you will be safe from gankers. a corp mate and i recently had to move 2bil worth of faction mods through hi sec. we used a battleship that was tanked to hell with the other as scout. guess what? we didn't get ganked even though there were gankers on the gates.i have not been suicide ganked by anything in hi sec in the nearly 5 years i have been playing eve. i learned very early on from other people's mistakes not to let your guard down once you undock. the only safe place in eve with 100% security guaranteed is in station. undock at your peril."
"nothing wrong with mining ships not being able to tank .... just stop insurance payouts for ships destroyed by concord (gankers) and all will be fine."
"with all due respect.no #### sherlock.and further more.... its a little late if someone warps to your belt and approaches you with intent to kill... ever try warping out in a hulk at full 180degree turn radius to escape from alpha strike?thought so....you can say what you want..but when the data hits the paper...gankers have the advantage...full alert and all.don't get me wrong..not saying we should nerf suicide ganking...but a balance would be nice.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"in general, yes, you need to watch local carefully - we always tell the new folks that more then 15-20 in local is too crowded for a regular mining system. ideally, you want a system with fewer then 10 regulars and not a lot of through traffic so that you can spot possible trouble when it hits local. and if something enters the belt like a newbie frigate, shuttle, etc. it does raise the nerves a bit and you do start paying closer attention.but once the hostile lands on grid (often at optimal range because you've been scouted by a cloaky), it's basically too late to warp out a mack / hulk - you will be locked and alpha'd before you get up to speed. align time on a mackinaw is a lazy 12.9 sec, the hulk takes 17.4 seconds to warp off from a dead-stop. both are the size of a large barn with short lock times from a bc/bs sized ship. (the only solution to the align time is to have each hulk/mack web another hulk/mack so that everyone can escape faster. not really possible in a fleet with members from different corporations and it makes the tank even weaker.)general concepts that we try to explain to the younger players:- don't mine where the gankers tend to look (newbie systems, market hubs, main travel routes).- don't mine where there is a lot of traffic (look at # of jumps in past 24/48 hours).- don't mine where there are more then 15-20 in local.- tank your ship.- watch local.- watch the overview.- make sure that you are always clear of the asteroids so you can warp-out easily.- don't engage a can-flipper, just dock up at the first sign of trouble."
"sound advice...but you can't tank your ship...your dead anyway.....thats the problem.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"op is a butthurt pubbie.... lots of other pubbies rally round him.... they all propose to \"fix\" high-sec, high sec is fine, stop yer bitching. you don't like being picked on in internet space ship game? either fight back or stop playing. sure you can dock n hide, but that just staves off the inevitable. so stop filling up forumspace with useless ****."
"^ perfect example of useless ****particularly when they don't read.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"enjoy"
"wow! you are so smart!go get another thread loser!"
"this is hilarious. if you don't like the brutality of eve, go play something simpler. like bubble spinner or wow.don't get me wrong, i hate goons too. but for completely different, perfectly legitimate reasons. what they did to you was funny."
"you mean the op or whom?"
"if translated in the context of current events:\"myself and some friends were in africa mining minerals in a territory we have no claim or rights to and the local warlord said he didn't care about the minerals but that we needed to pay him protection money or we might have an 'accident'...that's not fair...\"good luck with that...;)options: 1.) go somewhere else.2.) pay the protection money and hope the warlord keeps his word.3.) bring your own protection and risk protracted conflict with the warlord."
"haha! funny ! more pissed off publords also, this is eve, if you don't like that no where but station is safe, stop playing, nothing regarding the sec system and concord is broken. this thread is rather useless, suicide ganking is part of the game as much as mining is, so deal with it."
"maybe if you took the time to read...and think (there's a concept) you might realize we where discussing the problem that the suicide gank mechanic is increasingly easier these days due to the fact there's not much to do in the way of defense as far as balance is concerned.but your soo busy strutting your stuff like some crazed ape...your too busy beating you chest and saying you sux haha that your looking like a total idiot.so please....give up while you still can before you embarrass your alliance....again.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i ******* hate it when drake and i agree on something. it means the end is near."
"suicide gank mechanic has always been easy ( like your mom! ba dum tiss). also i might add there are indeed ways to defend against the suicide gankers (unless they're really motivated to kill that hulk or whatever).some methods are:1) orca with remote reps2)oversized local reps3) common sense (op has none of it)these three tactics will help you not be a victim of the suicide gank, as easy it is to gank, its just as easy to avoid being ganked so please, shut the **** up what you nothing about draconis.p.s test alliance flat out don't give a ****. they remember this is a game"
"suicide gank mechanic has always been easy ( like your mom! ba dum tiss). also i might add there are indeed ways to defend against the suicide gankers (unless they're really motivated to kill that hulk or whatever).some methods are:1) orca with remote reps2)oversized local reps3) common sense (op has none of it)these three tactics will help you not be a victim of the suicide gank, as easy it is to gank, its just as easy to avoid being ganked so please, shut the **** up what you nothing about draconis.p.s test alliance flat out don't give a ****. they remember this is a gameedit: my bad for 2x post, browser lagged"
"problem brutix?"
"1: no one will fit an orca with remote reps you noob... there's 3 high slots and 2 are always fitted with gang links and i seriously doubt 1 remote rep will be enough to stop a gank. try flying one sometime before you start spouting non-sense.2: oversized local reps? what the hell are you getting at again? local remote rep? you ever fit a hulk with such a thing? you even understand the concept of fitting mechanics in a industrailist sense?3: agreed...op never had any to begin with....nor do you when it comes to mining.the problem is obvious...one you fail to understand because your too busy acting like an \"expert\" short of blowing #### up so let me spell it out for you nooblet.if someone wants to suicide gank they will do so without resistance or hesitation...and they will always (99%) succeed in doing so. a protection fleet will fail at that point. waste of time to debate.that is why people hate it.you cannot and you will not fit any mining barge in this game to withstand even an tempest fitted for alpha strike.as that is what seems to be the benchmark for most ganks.i here people do it with smaller ships...destroyer or cruiser class.that is a major gap.the problem is not the gank...how the hell else can you eliminate someone with concord protection in the first place.the problem is inability to defend from such a strike in any shape form or fashion....it only takes 1 salvo to do the job...possibly 2 if your in a lower rated security system.so for once angry...engage that thing we call a brain before you respond.we already know you hate me..we already know your a nice big strong pvp'er who preys on easy targets with little to no effort.that's not what we are discussing here.get with the program or get out.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"someone's just mad that their free isk isn't without risk.and if you want to spend 125m on a t2 fit 'pest to gank a hulk on the off chance that you get a wrecking blow. feel free.questions? see above fit-post.34.2k ehp vs quake28.5k ehp v. rf phased plas.foolproof? no. but unless the tempest gets a wrecking blow, chances are you're in low shields or armor, not your pod.also, if they use 2-3 tempests to 'guarantee' the kill, they're wasting a lot of isk for a 50m bounty :d"
"where the hell did my arguement go? damn ****** ingame browser, oh well, hiro is making my point clearly and simply.tank the ******* ship and use common sense"
"according to a recent dev blog ccp is trying to introduce a new class of batlecruiser that uses large weapons and \"will be capable of similar damage output as a battleship\". (url is"
"honestly....as scary as it looks...i'm interested in seeing what it will do to the use of the battleship overall.if anything if it fails or gets overpowered..they'll just nerf the crap out of it later.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"the tier 3's interest me, just in the sense that while they have the ability to fit large (battleship-class) weaponry, they also will not be able to tank like a battleship, and will have to rely on more maneuverability.so you have a couple options:- fit large weapons, and half*** tank- fit medium weapons, and massive tankeither show potential to either be an incredible strategic tool, or an overpowered piece of **** that needs to be nerfed severely.only time will tell. i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"gentlemen... it is largely speculated that tier 3 battlecruisers will receive bonuses that reduce the cpu/pg requirements to fit battleships sized weapons (similar to the way stealth bombers get reduction bonuses). the idea behind them is that they will \"pack a punch\" but won't be able to fit anywhere close to a battleship-class (or even a high-end battlecruiser-class) tank."
"agreed the last thing this game needs is another bc hull much less another t3. fix the broke stuff first!!!!!!!!!!!!!!"
"bc cost?as much as i enjoy wild knee-jerk speculation, they're ******* t3 - how cheap do you think these things are going to be? not only that but they're obviously designed as glass cannons, making them an even larger target than they would be on price alone. until we see what the hulls can do on singularity this is a complete non-issue as we simply do not know what the ships are capable of."
"buff battleships. battlecruisers are currently really close to battleships in terms of damage. which isn't how things are supposed to work.the problem is, battleships have troubles applying their damages to smaller ships (basicly, everything is smaller than a battleship), and when they manage to really apply their damage, they don't do much more than battlecruisers. and it's pretty sad.try yourself, almost every battlecruiser can achieve 700 dps (the brutix can go over 1k but hey, blasters). battleships can reach 1k, some of them can reach more than 1k (blaster battleships, maybe the raven). battlecruisers will apply 90% of their dps, battleships will apply, say, 70% or their dps. if i keep the numbers from the previous paragraph, that gives you 630 dps for a random battlecruiser (hurricane, harbinger, brutix, the drake being an exception, or maybe not, didn't try the ham fit yet), and 700 dps for a random battleship. those are ingame, real dps against a decent target, not a structure or a ship that is sitting still.all that with a tracking problem, more tank, less maneuverability, more skills needed for large weaponry and 3 times the price. the few added dps doesn't make up for all that. the added range however is great, but still. pretty much the only thing that's great about large weaponry (aside with alphastrike for arties)."
"alternatively: nerf tier 2 bcs. there - you've now indirectly buffed both battleships and tech 1 cruisers."
"i would like to be able to see by way of the api, or other means, on a monthly schedule, two numbers, how much new isk entered the sandbox, and how much left the sandbox. i would even accept one number, the ratio of in to out.thanks!"
"i think we've all trained a few skills then looked back and thought.... why did i do that :/ it's basically \"wasted sp\", usually in stuff that players never use and have or will subsequently train an alt for.the learning skills redistribution demonstrated that ccp have the ability to implement this in some fashion. not sure if they were considering offering sp for aurum, but i'd imagine that will be on long term hold now, and not welcomed by the community. that doesn't mean that players would not appreciate being able to redistribute \"wasted sp\", so i think given the current climate, might be worth a look from both devs and players, see if it's viable, and if it could be done... should it be? if so, how?some ideas:- once a year fixed sp redistribute. i was thinking 1-3m sp, enough to train a couple of skills, but not max. or no more than a month's worth of skill training. players could either take it up, or chose to accumulate as remaps are handled now.- the ability to redistribute any amount of sp at any time, for a fixed penalty, say at a 20% loss. perhaps add some fees to that, a plex or two, as character transfers are handled now. or leave it isk/money free as the player will ultimately end up paying more in subs to cover the penalty loss long term.it's a relatively simple idea, but i think it's something that many players would be happy to see, and hopefully isn't disadvantaging anyone or causing additional hassle for ccp. if anything it might make a nice bit of side income, but i suspect the key to this is, if ccp does decide to charge for the service, it should not be done via aurum or the nex store as it will immediately be treated as a non vanity micro transaction.the fact is, it is a non vanity mico transaction, but depending on how it is handled, and my preference would be for the first proposal as opposed to the second, not one that should disadvantage the wider playerbase. cleaning up your skillsheet from training mistakes made as a noob, or by previous character owners, might well be considered a luxury, but in moderate increments should not have a massive effect on gameplay advantage/disadvantagesthoughts?apologies if this has been proposed previously"
"this was acccidentally posted due to a forum bug parsing bbcode, please delete this thread."
"this thread was accidentally posted due to a forum error parsing bbcode, please delete it."
"i'm the new boss *****."
"not a valid proposal. thread locked."
"you somehow think that the media only paid attention because the csm is slanted towards null sec? i am sorry but that isn't the case at all. the media only became interested when folks in highsec started attacking monuments in the trade hubs. i assure you the media doesn't give a crap or even knows what highsec, lowsec or null sec is lol!"
"when was the last time anyone did something to affect the way thousands of people play the game?what have the big nullsec alliances done recently that affected anything besides other big nullsec alliances? and don't say the goon icecapades. i've seen too many ice miners happily operating unganked to believe it's had that much impact. and it hasn't affected most of us at all."
"duplicate thread.thread locked.please use the already existing thread to post your feedback. thank you."
"in real life clothes hide the jiggle. solution: remove all the clothes!"
"if it didn't take away from dev's working on making the game more fun, i wouldn't mind name changing. dev cycles are precious."
"let's try to keep our comments in list view. it's easier to read, and this thread isn't about one thing, it's about all the little things that combined could give eve a bad image. there's potential for a lot of posts. let's keep it simple for ccp in case they want to take a look."
"i like the idea of the bounty not being fully paid each turn."
"great idea. +1"
"+1but i hereby offer a 100m bounty to the first person who can figure out a way it can be gamed so the guy with the price on his head makes a profit."
"trebor =>in my humble opinion there is no way to be gamed.the bounty is based on 75% of how much did the hunted guy loose. if he ask a friend or if he destroy himself with an alt, he will still loose 25% of his ship+non-dropped items value.however, the hunted guy can repeatedly kill himself so he can basically consume the bounty that was put on his head. but it will cost him the bounty + 25%.this means, whatever you do, if you're in any way related to the hunted guy, you don't make a profit. a third party won't care about the hunted guy's loss, so it's all good."
"wanted man gets podded once, then doesn't pay for a medical clone upgrade, and lets his alt kill him repeatedly, losing skillpoints.please send isk. edit: you didn't say it had to be a sane way."
"hi please pay attention to this post if you care about this at alli love caps. i like this idea a lot. i think it can get some traction. a possible part of this mechanism has been suggested that i'd love for you guys to smell test.\"maybe if you get below -5, insurance payouts go onto your bounty instead of your wallet or something\"thoughts? i personally like it. rip this idea apart if you can."
"insurance is its own bucket of worms. the problem with insurance going to paying down a bounty is that insurance pays more than the investment, so then you create isk out of nothing, if that's the mechanism suggested. plus, you get to profit as the wanted man (get an empty hull and plat-insure, then destroy it a lot). i think i originally posted that the killers get the insurance in addition to the bounty escrow portion, without affecting the bounty at all, but that gets messy and math-heavy. would it make more sense to say that wanted people are uninsurable (due to the increaed risk of shiploss when everyone is paid to blow up your ship) and existing policies just don't pay out?of course, i'm not sure what happens when you are at sec -1.0, you get a bounty, and then rat your way back to 0. i'd recommend staying uninsurable for as long as you have a bounty on you, regardless of security status."
"could a person be allowed to simply \"buy out\" whatever bounty remains on his head btw??"
"+100, and a few guardians to boot. bump! (this idea needs a csm champion, tbh. i wonder if anyone from hark has seen it yet, btw?)"
"we need better poses."
"looking at ccp's winter expansion list, it just says starbase logistcis management. it sounds like a change to hangars and stuff instead of the whole pos system.i don't know about you guys, but i need to see this whole plan contained within this thread go into the winter expansion to be happy. it's been far too long, and i'm not going to wait through another expansion for something as epic as this! here's to hoping ccp has this up their sleeve and are underplaying it on the expansion list..."
"i agree. the pos needs revision!"
"only if you are incompetent."
"you're right, that would make its role appear a bit undefined. then i think it should have a good bonus to harvesters' cpu usage, at least..."
"low sec can use any buffs it can get. low sec always seems kept out of discussions when it comes to major game changes. it's always \"high sec this... null sec that...\" but never anything about low sec and its gotten depressing seeing this happen for so long. low sec might not be the most populated area, but its still a significant part of the game that is being left to deteriorate."
"double post"
"this is probably the most well-thought out and presented idea for the improvement of low security space that i have seen in a while. all of the suggestions are ****ing awesome. and with these suggestions (especially the gas cloud spawns), it may draw more of the miner/industrialist element into low sec, as they could be working for varying local pirate groups as a contractor to assist in the manufacturing of boosters. thus it is quite well rounded, and has an appeal for just about everyone.i definitely support this idea. +1i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"i like your ideas for faction contested space, which yes should include pirates.but eve is a universe which should be diverse, so not all of low sec. and while pvp is a draw, there are many of us who don't want to play pvp in ships, but do want to play in a dangerous universe where this happens.other options should exist for low sec as well in areas not involved in faction conflict to allow people to play as they wish.but for faction areas, good call"
"hi if you don't know what siri is, check the following vid."
"no support."
"i respect you opinion but why? i think we should introduce new technology to eve before it comes out on other mmos"
"me too. dont want that.ccp really please dont use upgraded, limited, experimental and prototype in item names. it sounds like the item is actually worse than basic meta 1 item. use calibrated, enhanced, optimized and upgraded. its really easy to understand that the item is better than meta 1 and its also in alphabetic order."
"no. there are plenty of voice recognition programs out there, i know dragon naturally speaking is the most popular, if you want to talk to your computer then you should use one of them. they should be able to interface fine with eve's text boxes so you can dictate mail like that.i see no reason at all to spend developer time implementing a new control system that's less accurate and efficient than the current one just because it's something different. that kind of feature bloat of adding things that don't actually add anything to eve just because it sounds cool is what caused all of this uproar over the last 6 months. so, no, just no."
"i think there should at least be an api exposed for softwares such as this so handicapped (and non handicapped if they prefer) can make use of the software to actually have a chance at playing eve. most of this software cannot recognize buttons and other objects on the eve screen. the farthest that i have seen in terms of compatibility are something along the lines of \"move mouse up, click, move mouse down\" etc. programs with a standard windows forms interface can be accessed by these programs in an easier manner, such as \"click submit, select name textbox\". if a similar mechanism was exposed for eve (even if ccp didn't do the voice recognition themselves) software may work so that a player can say more intelligent things. instead of \" move left, click here, etc\" a player may say \"click science and industry, click agent finder, etc.\". i think that would be beneficial, and may not require much work on the part of ccp."
"i've used siri.the problem is reaction time and accuracy.if you need fast, voice recognition will not be useful. and it still makes mistakes.and cost. i don't think ccp can afford to develope their own or purchase the license for someone else's."
"although exposing information so that a number of voice programs can use hook into them shouldn't have a prohibitive cost associated with it, and would be a huge leap for disabled and lazy gamers."
"hmm, if the cost was passed onto the gamer (in the form of them paying for the licence) that might be doable.and as you said it would help those with physical disabilities (don't care about the lazy ones)."
"the cost should be minimal, and it is unreasonable to charge for this. i am not saying license out voice recognition software , i am saying expose an api or informational system of some sort so existing or new programs can hook into eve and play. one shouldn't have to use a specific voice recognition software to use it."
"someone still has to buy a license to use the voice recognition software (unless a freeware version exists that i am unaware of)."
"any kind of external api to allow interfacing with the gameplay would be heaven for all botters, it'll never happen. and, no, rmters will not care at all about paying $30 for a license to run their bot farms."
"right, however the software could be left up to the end user, much like many other applications. as for the concern of botting, it only makes it marginally easier to write a bot. however, most botters do not write the bot, but pay for the bot and bot all day. writing bots isn't the issue, it is the use of bots. from an end user's perspective, bot usage is the same either way. bot detection still has to be done another way."
"yeah. mocam hits the nail on the head here, although shortening the clone timer does seem like a slightly higher priority, as it would make clones finally useful for w-space dwellers, as the 24hr jc timer atm interacts with the 24hr cycle of (most) k-space whs to create a cycle of unwanted clone movement all over the place. in fact, i may need to take a week's sabbatical from w-space in the not-so-distant future just to do the clone shopping thing without interference from what the k-space exit from home is doing.so, in short:first priority: \"infomorph interfacing\". rank 5 skill. charisma/willpower. requires informorph psychology 5 and science 5. shortens one's clone timer by 3% per level.second priority: \"advanced informorph psychology\". rank 6 skill. charisma/willpower. requires informorph psychology 5 and science 5. gives 1 extra clone per level."
"only 3% ? i'd rather see the timer reduced by 10% per level. otherwise we would still have to wait over 20 hours even with the skill at lvl 5. heck, why not 15% so at lvl 5 it's reduced by 75%. most people i know of use jcs so they dont have to risk their expensive implants for some casual pvp, and having to wait 24 hours before getting back to your +4s or +5s is the main reason i and lots of people i know, don't pvp very often. a 20 or 12 hours is till a long time to wait and most people will have gone back to bed by then. the best solution might actually be to add a skill that allows several s each cylce rather than shorten it. that way you could do your business and then not have to wait all that time just to back."
"free kugu csm, hear out pleas! bring this important issue to the attention of ccp!"
"i'll have you know we fixed this problem by burning bridges with pl after they failed to pay our rent. we are now a 100% owned subsidiary of the cfc."
"sensoring the word kugutsumen is petty and just draws attention to it."
"showing my support for this proposal.free kugu!!!"
"free kugu"
"that's a pretty close minded view to what is honestly a very wide spectrum of players. just because people are willing to be blunt and honest about each other's success and shortcomings there doesn't make it any less of a member of the eve community as a whole.in fact, in this poster's opinion, it seems all the more fitting, what with being an eve forum and all."
"in the name of an ever growing \"minority\",in the name of russian model-banging hackers,in the name of liberty and justicewith one voice are we telling you:ccp, stop this madness - free kugu.com now!"
"supporting this"
"free kugu 2011"
"free kugu"
"+1the forum name in question is no longer a primary reference to a certain notorious individual; moreover, you cannot make the claim that the site is itself especially bad, as there are innumerable other forums which discuss the sam things with no reprecu"
"free kugu!"
"censorship is bad m<U+FFFD>kay!free kugu tsu men dot com"
"let out people goooooooooooooo!<U+FFFD>also, free k.com."
"kugu is the only eve forum besides goonfleet.com worth visiting"
"this sounds aawesome!a sight that makes money supporting bot adds. this will help the game, more bots more subs everyone wins. hell why not just add bot adds right to the home page here. why not just use kugu as the main forum and people can see how deep the bot problem actually is, i suggest everyone take a look over there and see how these people really help the game. they are all white knights defending your game.... free kugu... ya right gtfo"
"supporting this."
"congrats for making it clear to everyone that you don't know a thing about internet advertising.seriously, stellar work."
"certain ads only appear based upon your search history which would imply...oh dear."
"free kugutsumen"
"good site, interesting and insightful, lots of content. all the major personalities of eve are represented there and many post regularly.often linked as a source in evenews24.com, for bad or ill.the fact its banned from the eve forums and the reason why kugu was banned in the first place lends legitimacy to the site, incase ccp were wondering."
"we have a policy of asking our advertisers to not give us ads for \"eve gold\" selling sites or sites related to activities not allowed under the eula. however many of our advertisers use google analytics (and other such services) to provide ad viewers with advertisements typical of their common internet browsing experiences. this means that the advertisements you see are related to the sites you commonly visit.if you are getting advertisements which advocate botting, this means that you often frequent sites whose contents include botting. this does not mean you bot - i would never unjustly accuse someone of that - but it does mean you might often visit conversations about botting. it is an irony that a person who often engages in discussion against botting would receive custom-made advertisements for bots, but that is the way it works.this is the same reason that people like vile rat (moderator of a political forum on a comedy website) gets ads for things like ron paul."
"if you could pull this off, you would have my axe... and a few bows... and a few swords..."
"it would be pretty awesome to see if yo can pull it off. im always in favour of war, no matter who starts it or why.the biggest stumbling block will be the enormous apathy and discontent that the hisec alliances seem to hold. perhaps the time has come - hisec vs nullsec."
"i hope that ccp does keep 1 team on the wis at least so that progress can be made on establishments. even though it may take a full year to come out.there has been a lot of work done on in wis i would like 1 team to tie it up together and produce something.i am willing to accept buggy incarna if given a heads up that it is \"buggy and optional\" i have been waiting since 2007 for this expansion when it was originally called ambulation"
"uh, i don't think incarna was ever intended to be an fps. space stations are delicate enclosed artificial ecosystems, like aquariums, you don't let people run around with weapons that can poke holes in them. jita 4-4 is a military owned space station, no way would the caldari navy let civilians run around with guns. if you want to shoot people in the eve universe you'll have to play dust.incarna is a social simulator, like second life in space (but without furries or flying dongs). boring for dedicated pvpers, but a goldmine for social players and roleplayers. apparently roleplayers already have \"tavern\" channels where they all pretend they are in a room together, incarna just throws them a bone. more subscriptions is better for all of us, even if some of the new players are playing the game the \"wrong\" way. on the upside, not needing combat mechanics means it should be relatively easy to get a basic multi-player version functional. they just need to code a few basic social animations appropriate to the setting (please not the macarena) , a couple simple table top games like space poker and space chess so players have something to do, and figure out a way to have more than one avatar in a room without melting graphics cards.1000 avatars potentially all being the the same corridor together is probably unfeasible for the first iteration. instead of having the door open to \"the station\" the door can open to an elevator. you enter and select a destination, if the destination is \"full\" (or the owner doesn't want you) then you don't get to go there. i'm sure fire codes and environmental regulations on a space station are quite strict, so there will be no problem coming up with a lore reason why hundreds of people aren't allowed in the same room. if all the public establishments are full, your buddy can at least invite you to come to his cq and watch space tv together. even as few as a dozen people in a room would provide something for social players to latch on to, and give people a reason to buy expensive shoes. it could be like the sims, but in space. people love the sims."
"sigh...learn reading comprehension to level 5 please.if you have to do a full 180 degree turn in anything other than a frigate in a belt, you fail at eve. get out.oh another protip for those that haven't worked it out yet....don't mine in systems of less than 0.8.there is nothing wrong with the game mechanics. suicide ganking is a fact of eve life. stop crying like little girls, htfu and deal with it. and before anyone else makes comment, think about this....suicide ganking is nothing new, but yet everyone else manages to get by without crying about nerfing gankers? *edit*i am not a suicide ganker by the way. i don't like it anymore than anyone else does but they pay to play same as we do so each to their own."
"look who's talking.sounds like you need to learn to read as well.i never said one bloody thing about suicide ganking being not fair or complaining about it.i'm only talking about hard facts and data.you obviously have never tried to pilot a hulk....the 180 bit is a metaphor...aligning a hulk is a waste of time at best because even if your nose is aimed in the correct exit vector you still have to throttle up and then get at the right angle of attack to warp out...especially if the exit vector is above or below your zero elevation. and even if your safe spot is spot on...your hulk or mack is slow as the slowest fat cat... and lets be honest...who doesn't land at zero on a gank strike without a cloaky pilot?when they strike..its first salvo and your dead...period.lower sec rated systems gives them more time to take you down. they can bump you off course as well.its easier than shooting fish in a barrel at that rate...just look at all the fun the goons are having after all.i'm also finding it laughable that people think they can tank their hulks to survive a suicide gank.yeah...right...keep going with that idea...you'll find out real fast its a total waste of time.if it was possible...it wouldn't be so popular now would it.wake up and smell the quafe people...your just making pitiful excuses and refusing to read.suicide ganking is here to stay....but lets try to make it a little bit more interesting and try to make it challenging enough shall we?if you haven't figured that much out...your just as dumb...if not worse... as you accuse me to be.serious case of \"selective reading loss\" if i ever saw one.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"wuts goin on her?"
"a few notes on \"aligning\".if you are at a dead-stop, then it doesn't matter which way you are pointing when you click align-to (or warp-to or double-click in space). your ship instantly turns (ignore the graphic) and immediately starts accelerating to 75% max velocity in order to enter warp. doesn't matter whether you were originally pointed in the right direction, 180 degrees opposite, whatever.where alignment does come into play is if you are at a non-zero speed. in order for your ship to warp off in the direction that you want it to, the engines have to beat the inertia of the moving ship around and line it up on the vector at the same time that it is trying to get to 75% speed.for those curious to test this - try webbing a corp-mate's freighter sometime. if you apply the web when it is sitting at zero velocity, you'll find that it warps off almost immediately (such as after a gate jump). if you apply the web as it exits a station or when it is moving at full speed, the freighter will spend a lot of time turning around to get on the outbound vector before it can warp off."
"that's okay, we don't mind role playing the bad guys so that other players have the opportunity to role play the heroes. just think of us as rats like sanchas or serpentis, but with slightly better ai and a (terrible) forum presence. once you learn our moves we're not much more troublesome to deal with than belt rats."
"nicely said. :)================ stop the evemail spam!"
"your not the bad guys.your just playing the game more seriously than most.there is not one bloody thing wrong with that.everyone else can do the very same things... that's why i think people are stupid to be yelling at \"goons doing this\" \"goons doing that\"yes...your \"style\" may be in question...even in my case...but that's not a cheat.otherwise you'd cease to exist.your doing the things everyone else can do and they do those things regardless.your alliance is the glorified scapegoat of the mob....that's just wrong imho.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"op, you must have clicked on the \"i consent to pvp , anytime, anyplace\" button. amirite? that one down in the lower left hand corner? otherwise...................how did you get violenced?"
"don't pay em. if the goons are asking for anything assume its a scam and most likely is"
"why in the nine crimson hells is this thread still going? it's getting nowhere.bullet points to consider:- barges and exhumers can be tanked to survive (but can only survive for so long)- barges and exhumers with logistics support can survive a gank fairly well- barges and exhumers actually have scored kills due to the above listed point (the second one)- barges and exhumers are broken down by class with each having a relative amount of ehp tier 1 - procurer/skiff (frigate-class) tier 2 - retriever/mackinaw (cruiser-class) tier 3 - covetor/hulk (battlecruiser-class)- the more you feed the trolls, the more they'll just keep coming back- drake, you're a ****ing moron in both an industrial sense and a literal sense as you neither read nor acknowledge the content of previous posters, but just throw a tantrum and try to make your \"point\" (also your grammar and spelling is atrocious)- suicide ganking is going to happen wherever, and whenever- high security space offers relative safety directly correlative to the security level of the system in question- if you don't want to lose your barge/exhumer, mine in something more durable but less efficient and stop ****ing being a *****- if you're sick of being picked on, either bring logistical support, mine in grav sites, or just don't mine (be a harder target)- if eve is too hard for you, give me your stuff and biomassi am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"thissome days you're the bug, and some days your the windscreen. and some days, you're just a man with a gun."
"what the hell does aggression mechanics have to do with gccs?and saying that \"in high sec, ships don't explode because concord says so\" is, ahem, dumb. (or any other entity for that matter)"
"i too like the idea of exploding ships, howerver... because the ship scraps spread out, like a shotgun, the explosion radius would be more like the closer you are, the more damage you recieve.and whats more, because the captials have such big jump engines, the explosion should be much more violent.to balance it out against smaller ships, the explosion of capitals should be prolonged for about 10-15 sec. enouch time for smal ships to get the hell out."
"no, they aren't.they're tier 3 tech 1 bcs, the same way a maelstrom is a tier 3 tech 1 bs.and we don't have a clue what they'll be like, so let's not scream for nerfs yet? :v"
"that doesn't look nice... i think that if they want to make t3 bcs, they should improve bss in general, as they're too close to bcs right now..."
"battle cruisers as far as i am aware were supposed to be less capably tanked battle ships with similar damage output. bc's make up for this in speed and agility though. this new tier 3 bc is just an extension of this although magnified.ship for ship, even the new tier 3's will die in a fire to a bs so why do bs's need buffing?"
"i might once have agreed with this proposal but for the fact that alpha tempests kick the snot out of bc fleets. one may argue that for this to be viable that the battleship must be in a large fleet, but that's the nature of that particular beast. the battleship isn't a small gang roamer, it's the backbone of fleet combat. i don't think they need buffing for a role they already fill nicely."
"i am very interested to see exactly what these machines do to the face of the battlefield. will they be able to fit 7 or 8 of the largest bs guns? probably not. will they tank like an abbadon? no way. will 10 of these things be able to outfight half a dozen bss? i guess it depends on what fits are used and so on.i dont think they will unbalance play, or make bss redundant. i think it will just make for a changing and more dynamic battlefield, exactly what we need."
"thank god you don't work for ccp...if you had your way these things would be 100% worthless...as a whole people are freaking out way too much about these ships... they will not be doing 1200dps like many bs are capable of, and they will not be tanking 1000+ dps like many bs are capable of... chances are they will be a faster bs with 1 or 2 less guns, 1/2 the cap, 1/2 the nuet range, a smaller drone bay and about 1/2 the hp. i don't see these new ships greatly exceeding the dps of the current bcs, instead they will be trading the tracking and cap consumption of the medium guns for the range and alpha of the larges... expect 6 guns with a single dmg bonus."
"they're just mad little carebears. they're mad because they didn't get a shiny new toy before the pvpers.well here's the harsh reality:eve is a pvp gameeverything you do in eve is pvpcombat: pvpmarket: pvpcontracts: pvpscams: pvppi: pvp (either by marketting or using it to fuel a pos)trading: pvpmining: pvp (competition for belts, marketting, marketting of manufactured goods)single shard universe folks. i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"lets clear up some things about le new battlecruisers shall we?1) while they will have the damage out put similar to a battleship, they won't have a tank anywhere close to it.2) they are a tier 3 ship, not a tech 3 ship. what this means is that they will be more expensive than the other two existing battle cruisers and will hopefully perform better. they will still be able to be one upped by hac's or strategic cruisers (assuming both pilots aren't stupid).3) these new battle cruisers will be very effective against battleships and other battle cruisers, but the effectiveness against other ships of smaller size will be less due the slow tracking speed of battleship guns and the increased speed/maneuverability of the battle cruiser. 4) it will still have the tanking ability of a battle cruiser so it won't be a very hard nut to crack.5) they are fulfilling a specific role in the standard fleet that has been missing. tl;dr = stop bitching about new ships that are actually a good idea!"
"hmm... bc with large guns: slower and less accurate then hac or t3... yeah, an engagement between the two will go badly for the tornado pilots, i think. sounds about right."
"agreed! this thread is totally jumping the gun. they haven't even been tested and we're already tearing down ccp's ideas (our ideas). i love this community, but we're a bunch of pre-mature whiners."
"no."
"biomass your character."
"never. reversible decisions greatly lessen a multiplayer enviroment's tangibility."
"short answer no.long answer: only if they took back every isk/item/asset you ever aquired while you had those skills. another answer: what a horrible idea."
"definitely not. ever."
"i think this goes back that people need to be held accountable for their good and/or **** poor decisions. therefore, i cannot support this as it would be **** near gamebreaking as it would create a huge imbalance. furthermore, accountability for one's actions. you make a good decision? good for you.you make a bad decision? live with it, and learn from it (furthermore, figure out what the **** you want to do, or where you failed to make a good decision, and train said skills)and if that doesn't work? i agree with sketch. biomass your toon.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"\"toon\""
"system ate my post, please delete."
"insurance isn't going to help a hauler pilot.again, insurance doesn't help here, and the problem with t1 haulers isn't the ship, it's the cargo.the only tanky haulers out there are deep space transports and orcas. both have quite large vulnerability windows on gates and undocks due to their long align times; at least the orca's cha doesn't drop its contents when the ship pops, making it a semi-viable option, albeit one that takes a while to train for. blockade runners, despite their covops cloak and fast align time, have trouble when they land short on stations and get decloaked by the station, rendering them surprisingly vulnerable to a waiting gank fleet (pl lost a 6+billion isk viator in jita this way).i'll leave points 4,5, and 6 for others to answer, with one exception: that fast-locking alpha ships (within a few seconds) can gain an unexpected edge, because even if you click warp as soon as they land on grid, there's a good chance they'll simply pop you while you're still aligning out to warp, and instawarps out of belts aren't practical given the requirements of mining one."
"hmm, yes insurance should be removed for criminal activity.then again, it should also be removed for:dying in a warzoneself destructingit should also:have increased rates the more you lose shipshave a ridiculous 30 page contract that you must sign and follow to the letter or risk voidance of insurancehave an actual budget instead of infinite iskforce you to pay to get anything (ie no free 40%)you want all that too?"
"yes"
"^thissupported +1"
"i agree with betoli."
"this whole thing is ridiculous. back in late 2003 when my (at the time) bf started to play eve he also felt the need for a bit more of a female touch to the game... including boobies and everything else that comes with a lady. it took him a few months, but he eventually (in early 2004) got me to play the game with him. then he had the best of all worlds. he had eve and could see boobies while he played. he had a girlfriend who enjoyed his weird obsession as well as had fun playing eve with him, but most importantly, he had the ability to have s3x while eve was on. i can not tell you how many times we did it to eve's sound track (miner stories and nouvelle rouvenor hero ftw).so instead of implying that ccp should do this soon (no you didn't say it, but you did imply it) maybe you should get a girlfriend. she might not play eve with you, but at least you can see some realistic boobage. oh wait, you're whining about a lack of boobage in a game that's primary focus (and pretty much only focus) is flying around in space ships doing things. whether those things are done at pos's, or in missions or asteroid belts, the primary (and only) focus is with ships. now granted there's also a focus on how ships are fitted and what you do with them, but guess what? that includes what? ships!so yeah, go get a girlfriend. if you can't, then change your life style so that you can.edit: oh yeah, forgot to mention that the ships we fly in this game don't even have crews. we're in pods that allow us to control the entire ship thus negating the need for a crew."
"i'm married and i wouldn't object to realistic fluid motion in incarna but adding \"jiggle\" to models is a lot more work than then op probably thinks, and isn't worth ccp's time until wis becomes a compelling reason for new players to subscribe to eve."
"im married...my wife agrees with me on this topic. oh...and our ships have crews.@ clown, i figured that it wouldn't be too hard since they managed to get hair done pretty well and after seeing the carbon video's on youtube and how they are going for realism i figured this shouldn't be much to ask for. i could be wrong though."
"it's bump time."
"i support punching-warps. they look so cool, and the current warp effect is so old and lame..."
"for further inspiration:"
"do like. it's awesome (though we might need some kind of effect showing where is the target warping. it would be a bit too far if there is literally no way to tell where did the target warp even if we had our eyes on it)."
"1.0"
"."
"oh there always is. bad guys are like cockroaches where i live but here's the thing, once identified, i don't need to check again because their name doesn't change at present. saves me some effort trying to decide if it's a threat or not (but of course, this is eve....you are all a threat, curse you all )"
"again an argument based on an assumption that everyone will change their name as soon as this feature is made available. this is simply not going to be the case.if you can afford one glance, surely another glance at their \"aka\" tab would not be too much trouble to go through to have this feature implemented. alternatively, set standings with your \"bad guys\" and your one-glance scenario returns with amazing efficiency."
"case in point, \"sentenced 1989\". if that name doesn't scream \"made in china\" i don't know what does :) not that there is anything wrong with that."
"alliance sets standings and it wouldn't be that great to have corp, or even worse, personal standings in null sec.as i have previously said, i am all for 1 change and 1 change only per account. this way anyone that made a bad choice of name can change it. just be alot more careful picking your new name...."
"if this would work, i may have to pay out. but i must insist you provide a personal demonstration."
"+1 to this idea. necessity is the plea for every infringement of human freedom. it is the argument of tyrants; it is the creed of slaves. - william pitt"
"it's about time that the bounty part of eve was actually playable. i support this one."
"since ccp is on a roll these days fixing internet spaceships, i find it appropriate to request the return of rigs to your ship fittings.when i auto-fit a ship these days (i die on a regular basis), i find it annoying having to scroll through 700 different items to find my rigs, and i sometimes even forget to do it, causing embarrassing lossmails. it used to be that when you fit your ship with the auto-fitter, rigs were included, and if i remember correctly, they even gave a warning about the rigs. this was removed when fittings were moved to server storage instead of local storage. i want it back.i therefore propse the following:include rigs to the \"auto-fitting\" toolallow a warning that can be disabled.include an option \"always include rigs when fitting your ships\" (that can be reset).i believe this will remove a source of great annoyance to a lot of pilots.edit:oh and while you're at it, ccp, how about including a standard ammo loadout as well?"
"i support this initiative."
"supporting this."
"supporting this.in addition, for those of us with serious hangar ocd:the ability to configure the load fitting button to allow access to certain permitted station containers would be good (i.e. only access to unlocked containers, or only access to containers with password xxxx, etc.). in this way, the button would access modules you have stored in specific containers (unlike currently where you have to drag them out individually), without disturbing stuff you had stored in other containers for whatever reason.one way to achieve this may be the creation of a specific \"loadout container\" item to seed on the market, which would be the only type of container to have modules 'pullable' by the fitting tool (thinking from an ease of programming perspective here)."
"1.0"
"1.0"
"rigs are just another ship fitting so strange it was removed.supported."
"1.0"
"+1_ _"
"1.0"
"not used...but if its missing....shouldn't be.+1================ stop the evemail spam!"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"[issue]i can't believe i can't find dozens of threads filled by madly raving assembly hallers demanding this, but i'd really love it if they would[solution]bring back the <U+FFFD>support<U+FFFD> button[details]or something like it. while the <U+FFFD>like<U+FFFD> button has its draws, it is still an incomplete replacement, as it doesn't easily and reliably show the support a proposal or issue has among the forumgoers (much like the post number). often, readers <U+FFFD>like<U+FFFD> an opposing opinion within the thread or they just don't want to like the author even though they liked the proposed idea. a <U+FFFD>support<U+FFFD> button next to the <U+FFFD>like<U+FFFD> one only for the first post in the thread and only in the assembly hall might make it a lot easier to gather and recognize popular opinion.edit:a \"not supported\" button would help putting things in perspective. on the other hand, it could be abused to \"shout down\" minority issues. in my exprerience, possible abuse always turns into real abuse. but maybe it's worth the risk?"
"only if we get a \"not supported\" button as well."
"supported. the assembly hall needs both a \"supported\" and \"not supported\" button."
"i woulve to see this fixed"
"+1i'd generally prefer difficult content to be counter-balanced by increased rewards, but cosmos could really use some love. still, don't make it too obvious, cosmos should remain something at least partly stumbled across exploring the universe for its ow"
"+1 wh pos dwellers would especially like this one."
"perhaps expand this idea to include sov mechanics and outposts.they could have the current small, med, lrg towers, but then add outpost and station class towers.the outpost class towers could be anchored to moons or planets and would function as the current tcu and ihubs do while integrating some stuff from normal possthe station class could function like current outposts do and only be anchored to planets but have the benefits of being able to add defenses and balance it with limited storage space (still way more than current poss have ofc) and perhaps a limit to the number of people who can be docked at oncethese would follow the modular setup and would work well with the current ihub and outpost upgrading mechanics while allowing even more flexibility.this could be great for small alliances that could use the defensive abilities around tcus/ihubs that are cost balanced with the other functions the modular system offers and it would allow all pos like objects to be in one organized category instead of the huge gaps between the current structures (ihub, outposts, moon pos)"
"mark my words...someday...someday...ccp will let us put stations in wh space. i will then leave wh space."
"^^ winner!a pos is a pos is a pos. it will die no matter where it is if you know what you are doing.not supported and terrible troll btw."
"+1hate to resurrect, but this deserves another day in the sun and needs be picked up by csm. not so hot about the bounty system here - ogopogo's idea (yonder) seems better and so much more elegant and easy to implement.edit: sorry, link added."
"i haven't seen his, but i'm sure there are better-planned bounty ideas out there. i just think that an expansion that features such an emphasis on concord and piracy should also include the new bounty system so many people want.i'm curious to see what new content is coming in the winter expansion."
"thank you for resurrecting my epic afk cloak thread. i wouldn't know what i'd do without it."
"the zombielord strikes again!"
"if it's afk... just ignore him?"
"stay on topic. this thread is obviously now about necromancers."
"i think one of the more important things is just having more stuff to do, especially with others. more group related things, or just more things in general need to be added. maybe a smaller scale, private/fleetwise incursion, or other random events?"
"for hi sec, a lot but then again not that much, mainly a bit more content.a bit of a rebalance on the suicide ganking, but no removal under any circumstances. insurance seems the most popular option.war decs need something to stop the griefing types, but allow for in game problems and rivalries to be played out.a bit of protection from pvp for noobs, i'd like to see a trial period protection so they have to initiate it through being stupid, so yes, can flipping to remain. but lets ease them in to harsh world eve is.more or variable missions would be nice, as once you've learnt them they are just an isk and salvage generator which are so boring.my personal likes, scan sites. could do with more variation on types and throw some ice in there please. yes i love grav sites. magnetic sites are not really worth the effort, make more salvaging a lvl 4 missions, even the odd t2 part doesn't make make up for the isk you get for the same time on a lvl 4, so a buff there needed.more wormholes to low and 0.0 would be nice too. i enjoy the odd foray deep into the wilds and the danger it brings.no more nerfs though, until low sec is fixed in various ways and 0.0 expands to allow remote areas of space, most will stay here and if ccp is to finance greater changes, the subs are needed."
"i definitely support more content in lowsec. i especially like the idea of an \"underworld\" component."
"a criminal underworld element would give a whole new facet to eve gameplay, thus expanding the sandbox in which we play, and give players many new options. would they spend their time smuggling (which actually would now be a legitimate career path), or patrolling the spacelanes (which would give a new element to the antipirate and security based corporations). would make for a nice isk sink, and actually would tie in quite nicely with incarna's future (imagine walking through the station, and an npc approaching out of a dark corridor to talk to you, or the opening of establishments that could serve as fronts for more illicit operations (a bar hiding a narcotics/booster smuggling operation). would also open up a whole new facet of immersion for the roleplayers within the game. so this idea benefits everyone (with the exception of the lazy carebears that are too afraid to leave high sec), but you never no, this could even get them off their ***es.this needs to keep receiving attention so ihe devs see the attention it is getting, and maybe pique their curiosity. i don't mean shameless plugs, and hollow bumps, but feedback with content suggestions, et cetera. this needs to happen on some level.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"i had a thought about a boost for low sec and outlaws. this will seem very heavy handed but low sec really does need a boost this big so bear with me, i will try to balance it out. keep in mind this is also a rough mental draft and i can understand why people would be against this. i welcome your criticism i wouldn't be surprised if this idea was thought up in part somewhere else, but here goes.-pos raiding- [warning: no tl;dr]* introduce a new ship for each race, possibly of a new class, or as i would prefer, a new electronic attack ship for each race. allow them to fit a specialized module that offlines a pos's shields and weapons for a short time, a very short time. this will allow pirates to make off with some nice goodies and give some more income potential to low sec pvp.* this will bring some attention and purpose to eas, but their extreme fragility will not make defense hopeless for pos owners.* if a new ship can't be made for this purpose, then a specialized module could be introduced that can only be fitted to electronic attack ships.*the possibility of raiding will force pos owners to actually defend their holdings, rather than putting up death stars in low/null and just gaining massive passive income from moon minerals and such.* raiding parties can head out to null and bring some action with them.* if ccp was feeling particularly evil, they could make this allowed in high sec (sec status loss and all), the rules of aggression would most likely be similar to can flipping.* smaller 0.0 alliances would be able to actually deal some damage to the big ones through their infrastructure. pos raiding done right could be an integral part of 0.0 warfare.==of course there will need to be balancing to keep raiding in check==* being a part of a pos raid will result in a loss of security status. this makes low sec living more attractive, as it is another avenue of pvp and profit for people not allowed in high sec. this will limit how widespread raiding is to those only willing to lose lots of sec (or people with none left to lose ).* the time window that a pos is offlined will have to be very small in order to prevent abuse, say only a few minutes. this will also insure a degree of skill is required on the part of the raiders to make it worth the effort.* a pos can only be raided so often (perhaps once per day?), or a system can only have so many pos raids happen in a space of time, say 2 per hour, such a limit would be dictated by ccp.* when a pos's shields and weapons are shut down by a raiding party, the owning corporation/player will receive an in-game notification so that they may muster a defense. if you are half a universe away from your pos and unable to defend? tough ****, you shouldn't be reaping the benefits of something you can't protect. [don't set up what you can't afford to lose ] this goes back to forcing people to actually pay attention to their holdings as previously stated.like i said this is only a rough mental draft, but one i have been thinking of for some time. and yes, i know that because i made a lengthy post that does not automatically qualify me as a game designer or that my feature will be adopted . at the very least i am throwing my hat into the ring and trying to foster discussion on fixing low sec."
"i personally have never felt the need to use voice activation software to play eve as i am quite attached to my mouse and keyboard. i also use ts/vent/mumble so it would be a pain to have my cursor bounce all over the place when i speak to someone (apologies if this is not how it works, never used it).i think it would have some merit for those that had difficulty in using a mouse or keyboard but as already mentioned, there is already software for this and i do think it would have an added cost for the rest of the eve players, however minimal, if it was to be implemented.i don't support this proposal."
"this clearly could be toggle-able and configurable, so your first issue should not be a problem.the software out there, as previously mentioned, has no way of 'detecting' items in the game and is hardly useable. all the eve client needs is some sort of interface for these softwares to hook into"
"blah..i completely missed the point."
"this op/idea is utterly insane.as much as the idea may seem \"nice\" it would be an utter nightmare with the issues that already persist in this game.eve online is a complicated game as it is...adding an another layer of voice commands in the midst of voice communicatinos is just begging for disaster.if you have trouble understanding this...every time you click your mouse button....thats a voice command.count the clicks....then you start to get the picture.macro's?thats not allowed...no chaeting now.yep....not a good idea.not supporting.ps: this excludes out of game assistance due to those who require voice commands...but even then...a game like this...wouldn't work very well anyway.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"system name pronunciation alone would wreck this.\"warp to the maadirmilire gate at 100 km.\"nifty as it would be for disabled people who have trouble using the mouse for extended periods of time, i can't imagine giving targeting and module use orders. it would be hard enough as a miner, telling it which asteroid you want targetted and making sure your lasers don't double up on the same rock. now think about what it would be like for a logi or ecm pilot trying to issue voice commands."
"excellent point...completely missed the most obvious drawback.anyone ever try to pronouce half of the system names in this game?================ stop the evemail spam!"
"answering and letting this thread live to see another day cause it matters1) no2) none3) aurum; the nex store4) no5) yes6) yes7) yes8) no9) no10) no11) no12) not sure13) yes14) yes15) yes"
"1) no2) none3) aurum, nex store4) undecided5) depends6) no7) no8) no9) no10) no 11) no12) yes13) no14) yes15) yes"
"1) should there be microtransactions in eve?no2) what kind of microtransactions would you like to see in eve?none3) list any of the following choices that you would like to see removed from the gamenone of the above4) plex = microtransaction?no5) do plex give players an ingame advantage?no6) should the subscription model of eve have changed after the introduction of aurum and the nex store?not sure/ depends/ undecided7) have you ever purchased plex?no8) have you ever purchased aurum?yesno9) have you ever purchased anything from the nex store?no10) have you ever purchased anything that was originally purchased from the nex store?no11) do you think the playerbase has overreacted about the whole microtransaction topic?no12) do you feel like the csm or any individual csm member has fairly represented your views on microtransactions, aurum and the nex store?yes13) do you think that buying a pre-trained character is like being able to purchase skillpoints?yes14) would you play eve if you only had to pay a subscription fee when you wanted to train skills?yes15) have you ever voted in a csm election?yes"
"1) yes2) cosmetic only3) none of the above4) no5) depends6) no7) no8) no9) no10) no11) no12) yes13) yes14) yes15) noalthough on 15, was too new to make a valid choice last time as still trying to work out all the politics, still trying now"
"eve has sound sometimes"
"vile rat could use some of that legal weed though."
"free kartoon now!!!! wtf with this ******* emoticons!!!! they are ******!!1 bring back the old emoticons!!!!! riverini / evenews24 @evenews24"
"don't really pay much attention to k.com, but it does seem kind of petty of ccp to continue to censor the name in the forums.i support the removal of this censorship."
"free kugu. the posting must flow."
"i support this product and or service"
"ha, dune"
"just popping in to say that kugutsumen.com is a good website."
"free k dot com, we need more people to negrep."
"it works!kugutsumenriverini / evenews24 @evenews24"
"please do not attempt to copy my astounding feats, for i am a great space wizard."
"i support this!free kugu!"
"free kugutsumen! \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"tho not unique. ccp has a history of banning the name of anyone whos account gets banned to silence the player. in recent history, helicity bosun was banned, and her name filtered, iirc, tho ccp backed down on that one. i can remember a couple others, but don't remember the actual names(omg ccp filtered my brianz!!!)edit: oh yeah, free the place they didn't need to filter due to being difficult to spell anyway!!!"
"i believe its the case of kugu's character name being banned, and that forum happening to have the same name."
"quoting this."
"calling it now: ccp responds by censoring \"kugu\" aswell."
"not emptyquoting!free kugu!!!eleventy1!"
"free kugu"
"+1 free kugu."
"supporting this!"
"that kugu is still a banned word on the official forums, despite being the one of the biggest non-official forum site for eve online speaks volumes about how ccp runs as a company.free kugu"
"free k.com"
"free kugu!"
"ah just the link works fine. the name it's self is still censored."
"1.0"
"must be a troll. can only be a troll.but fine, lets assume for once that you mean it. lets also assume that you somehow manage to accomplish this and bring down all the major powerblocks of today.then in a couple years it will be you the pvper doing the gank. and you will be enjoying it will all your heart.these things always come full circle. the powerblocks of today are the rebels of the past, who fought powerblock that were once rebels in their turn.if you don't understand this you havent been playing long enough.:sand: over :awesome:"
"hi sec united, eh? suspect this is a troll but wouldn't it be fun? all of eve at war with everyone? will start ship production right now......"
"just contact me and you will know."
"contact me please inside eve."
"its not a troll.its total war."
"contact me."
"i'm in your public channel."
"tried to reach you but u logged.mail me please and ill give u some further details.roldanus"
"not really orisa.im ok with pvp.i just don't support abuses.low and null sec are great to continue the path to territory claims and sovereignty, but not making the life of newcomers and players interested of other aspects of the game suck.pvp alliances can have their thirst for war quenched in null and low, and i can say its a big and vast place.the only reason is that at some point these alliances do not want to mess with each other often and they go and find miners and noobs to blow. what makes eve economy work is pvp in the end. what big alliances are doing is just distorting the market and slowing down economy. instead of going after real targets they kill miners. its like hunting in the zoo, much easier.but quite coward at the same time.i do believe that the final intent of this is to balance the equation and restore high sec fun. if the concord cannot, then we will.enjoy."
"hmmm...... total war against the null empires..... this sounds like fun. if all the high seccers took arms against the 0.0 seccers, then this would be like a .... galactic civil war and you guys would be some kind of empire trying to subdue its outer ring colonies from rebelling. where have i seen this before?"
"i have 3 questions1) why is targetting our enemies primary source of vital materials not a valid tactic in war?2) why can't we just use neutral alts to do our highsec shopping for us? you know, like we usually already do?3) most important question: if i train my alt to fly logistics, as well as my main, could i call myself drizzt do'urden because i would be dual wielding scimitars?"
"i said i am in favour of it, i wont be joining you. i will be fighting you."
"this. i heartily support all of the people who want to form highsec into a giant coalition against nullsec. not because i want to fight on your side, but because i want you to fight. i fully plan on fighting against you, but even if you formed up and attacked stainwagon instead of cfc i would encourage you because at least you will be playing eve, instead of shooting rocks while half afk"
"i'm in favour of anything that gets more highseccers actually playing eve rather than existing in the persistent vegetative state that endless highsec pve brings on."
"i'd consider it if your charisma was higher than a potato"
"tyou dont need to be so rude mr. potatogo find a thread of yourself"
"talk about bringing a knife to a gunfight..."
"ccp needs to cut their losses with incarna and again move in the direction of fis content."
"hint : that's exactly what it is."
"the new direction of ccp is great and i am more than happy with that.but..nothing is being added to the game to adress eve's biggest failing. that eve requires a large time investment each and every play period. this is true for empire and 0.0 players.many gamers have other commitments and can only play for 1-2h on a given night a certain time(after kids go to bed). so we can not play for hours for long roams or large fleet form up or make scheduled ops for a pos bash outside our normal play time.so what is a player who can only play a few hours a night to do?there is a lack of fun, interesting, accessible, meaningful content.--1.there is a lack if things to do in a short play period. short being 1-2 hours a night. ------ a. incursions take a long time to travel to and then join a forming fleet and it is almost time to log of.------ b. pvp roams are great but often include many jumps and if you start you play period right when it<U+FFFD>s forming up great<U+FFFD>.if not you often have <U+FFFD> -1h of pay time left and simply log because the op will take longer------- c. missions, sanctums are mindless isk done to reach a goal or pay for pvp<U+FFFD>they are boring and the though of that being the highlight of logging on makes me want to stab my eyes out-------d. mining is <U+FFFD>.well mining------- e. wh also take a decent amount of form up time past class 4.so i<U+FFFD>m left with solo pvp and while fun is feast or famine in terms of availability and is done more to kill time than anything else.--2. no new content that really affects what i can do in the game. --3. sov warfare is boring! yay we fleet up they run away or we stand down. been blue balled in fleets so often i<U+FFFD>m glad i<U+FFFD>ve already had kids. if we do fight it<U+FFFD>s a pos bash or a lag fest. so what is a player who plays between 8:00 to 10:00 local time mon-fri to do? what is to excite me about eve any longer and want to work towards something? what is fun and exciting to log on and participate in eve that is available on a consistent basis? eve is simply not as accessible as it needs to be. i think 90% of eve players currently play wot on the side for this very reason. posts show eve is not growing, and eve will not grow unless it provides fun meaning full content that is accessible to players who don<U+FFFD>t schedule there life around a game.so for these reasons i go sit by at the pc turn on eve only to really lack any desire to play so log and go do something else.eve really needs more.so i sit here subscribed and with eve installed and i<U+FFFD>m looking to play for 1h.....and i have 0 motivation to log on.is anything planned for this? would really help out eve a lot if more accessible content was present. these could includedynamic missions using sleeper aidynamic group missions that scale based on your fleet. fleeting is more fun that soloing a level 4.(incursions take to long to get to)faction warfare for quick accessible pvp...that may eventually mean something.i'm sure there are others but believe give us something to do that is fun and meaningful that can be achieved within a shorter play period.thanks"
"i do not mean to come off as uncaring, but, while they can implement short and quick things players with low time investment can enjoy, they can't be all that meaningful or contribute to any large long-term goals.eve is a game that is all about risk/effort v reward, if you can only put in 1-2 hours a night in effort, you will eb rewarded as such.eve by nature requires a lot of interaction and activity because it is not a casual game, so by principle, a casual player will find much less to do and much less reward to be had. making it so that a player with little capable time investment can have any large goals compleetd in a productive time period while only playing 1-2 hours a night would defesat the purpose, and then everyone would use this 1-2 hour method of play to make just as much money as people who devote 5-6 hours a day.i believe what i am trying to get across is that, yes, i agree that with the micro-management required to play eve, it is difficult for a casual player to enjoy, and this can be improved, but hopefully not to the point that eve loses either complexity or benefits from longer time investment, because as i said, eve is not a casual players game. however, casual players should not set their sites on large long-term goals as the only way for them to have something implemented that would allow casual players to achieve a significant goal would be to remove the complexity and time-investment required from the task, which would hurt eve overall.i'm sorry if at any point in this post i seemed incoherent or lacking of sense in wording, but i have been working on calculus for the past 3 hours in studying for an exam and i am awfully tired."
"i think you are looking at this the wrong way.you should be asking what can i do that interests me in the time i have with eve instead of what can ccp give me?i used to only have a few hours to play each night as well but i always found something to amuse me in eve.i went looking for plexes, picked fights with can flippers in hi sec, went to low sec to annoy the locals, did some mining, did a mission, chatted with corpies on ts/vent about football or the weather. i was never at a loss for something to do for an hour or so.eve is what you make it."
"i can and have flown a hulk. i do actually tank mine rather than go for the paper thin easy to die variety that you obviously fly. however i do actually do expect someone to try and suicide gank from time to time and prepare for it.do you happen to know the actual raw hp of a tanked hulk? do you actually know the total max damage a single bs can do if fitted to gank? do you know the total cycle time of arty? suggest you find out before whining anymore about those nasty suicide gankers. make it challenging? like getting free isk from a belt with zero challenges there already? next it will be gates on belts that only barges can use? lol can see it now....nerf drones!! nerf everyone else's ships but mine! have you bothered to ask any suicide gankers if they want things more 'challenging'? since when did you decide that they need this challenge? i suspect all are very happy with the way things are.i am actually of the opinion that you are just trolling because no-one can be this dumb.back on topic, i do not agree that there needs to be higher penalties for suicide ganking. it's fine the way it is. and this comes from a non-suicide ganker, go figure.oh and btw? <--- whining <--- whiningplease stop. it's embarrassing now."
"draconis, you know that thing about talking out your ass that everyone says you should stop? well, your'e doing it again.1) it takes up to 4 or 5 salvos for me to kill them, why? i use autocannons because they're the proper tool for suicide ganking, not howitzers. (do i really have to explain this part out? i don't want to.)2) it is more than plausible to fit a passive shield tank on your hulk that will last long enough for concord to arrive, wanna know how i know? i've seen it work.3) the reason why fitting a tank on a hulk isn't popular is because of the people who fly them that think high sec is a perfectly safe happy place to be, so they lose their hulks because they're dumb. back when i did mine, i had a passive tank on it, and it worked.4) the challenge in suicide ganking is not popping the hulk, it is beating concord. there is no fun what so ever in destroying a defenseless ship (ok, just a little bit), but destroying the ship before concord arrives is where the fun and the challenge lays in. that was just an fyi for ya.so please shuttup, if there is a thread about being station camped 24/7 go ahead and post away there cause you would be the expert there, but don't try to look smart in fields you don't know about."
"nobody is trying to look smart...only you.dont generalize your ideas about what ganking is or its not.try incursions instead."
"roldanus, you somewhat missed the point of my previous post, i am attempting to help draconis understand something he knows nothing about. while my post does have what i believe to be why some people gank and how they do it, i do know other people use other methods. i take it that you're one of the many who are the receiving end of ganking, no? the issue at hand here is not an issue at all, but just a result of goonswarm."
"sorry, misunderstood your post.i ask for your apology.enjoyed the discussion!"
"no worries good friend!! i too enjoyed this small discussion we had, and as a sign of good faith, here is my apology for a mis-leading forum post! carry on and hope to see you around here!"
"sounds like someone herped when they should have derped.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"eve is a big universe.there should be room for all styles of play.people play online games for entertainment.some chose a style of play opposite their rl circumstances. some people want an adrenalin pumping experience, some don't, some want to be bullies. ( before flaming me as a care bear, i am a rl veteran of the vietnam war, so flames will fall on deaf ears).i agree somewhat with the op, the balance of risk vs reward favors the 'wanna be bad boys'. i would be a fool to solo mine in 0.5 and expect to be immune. however the \"perception\" of accountability for your actions and the \"reality\" are where the problem arises.when you have a csm member posting on how to exploit the agression timer; the mittaniit is a sorry commentary. csm and ccp should be addressing exploits. many suggestions have been made for accountability for your actions, few if any have been instituted."
"fwiw i think it's dumb that you get insurance payouts for suicide ganking."
"insurance for suicide ganking and self destructing are both pretty bad. that poor insurance company."
"as much as i love to flame and hate on mittani... that unfortunately is not something i would call an exploit. he is legitimately using two characters in this case. this can only be blamed on ccp for encouraging multiple accounts and characters. can't really blame them as it does make them more money though.not only should one not receive insurance payout for being concorded but i think you should lose the option to receive insurance if you die while gcc is active and also when your sec status is below a certain level...say anything below -5. even if you are ratting and lose your ship to a rat but have a -5 status...no payout."
"if they deny you payout they should at least refund your premium if you bought insurance.i fly logistics, and a few times i have gotten sec status dinged because i repped a guy in my fleet and then he did a dumb thing. with rr fleets one guy being dumb can start a chain reaction that causes everyone to lose sec status (sometimes people even do this deliberately as griefing) . not everyone with low sec status is necessarily an evil serial killer."
"i read your post up to there. they're not meant to be, soz m8~ \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"and for mere isk a day, we can teach poor, uneducated carebears like drake here to read. please make all donations payable to jack carrigan, and in the note, please add \"illiterate **** fund,\" so that we can stop the illiteracy of the masses. you can help stop this problem. and maybe, just maybe one day, he will come up with an original, and borderline clever troll.assumptions. nothing irritate me more than people blindly assuming things, something draconis is known for on a quite frequent basis. anyway, with that said, he obviously has never tried to tank a hulk. passively tanked hulks make for a reasonably hard target if done right, but then again, that would require at least a baseline knowledge of pvp. which its obvious that this clown has none of. isn't that right zeroseven? a properly tanked hulk has better odds of survival against a suicide gank. why equip cargo mods if you have orca support? hiroshi linked a fit that would survive a hit from a brutix, and if you actually listened to people who obviously have more experience than you, maybe you'd learn something, rather than be sitting in an inactive corp with an alliance that has hemorrhaged twenty three corps, has lost over seven billion isk worth of blueprints, and is leaking intel faster than the titanic was leaking water. your entire roster is kind of cute. i find it funny that of the people on it, two of them are you, and of the other seventeen, roughly ten of them haven't logged in for months. maybe they finally got sick of your totalitarian rule. in a world of tools, you're the whole ****ing shed.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"^^^ ice burn \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"you sound bitterdid you lose a shuttle carrying an officer mod? be honest \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"sounds like it. or a hulk with ore strip miners... oh wait, that was something i killed the other night....in my defense, the ruthless miner was assaulting the beautiful omber asteroids in the system, and just happen to take a drone from a container i had dropped. so not only were they a murderer, but a thief. the madness had to end there.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"says the guy who is the only reason his \"l33t\" alliance has kills...says the guy who has a leutennate ******** enough to lose 6 plex in a eff'ing caldari shuttle outside of jita.says the guy who lost an orca...nearly 2 of them for ******** reasons in low security space of all places near rancer including his entire fleet.the same guy who calls its a victory when said fleets are slaughtered.i can't wait for someone to step up to your smug face and prove to the world your a phoney...its just a matter of time.oh and jack...learn to pay attention...those blueprints you keep blabbing about with your garbage mouth...they belonged to the original owner and they where returned by myself personally to that owner.but your too busy spraying bull#### all over the place in your butthurt for me fireing your stupid ass in the first place.so since we're so busy hanging out our laundry here on the forums maybe you should take your own advice and learn to shut the hell up yourself and biomass your own toon while your at it as you call it.you fail miserably...you talk like your the best....but your a phoney...your a fruad...and your a fake.you know whats funny...is angry onions who echo's you at least has valid experince in 0.0 life and low sec.you've had ltierally zero.you spend all of your time can-baiting and can-flipping.....its a wonder half of the people around here aren't laughing at your fake ass.you want to prove em wrong? go spend a few months in 0.0 space and show me otherwise...lets see how long you last out there eh?i went there...2 to 3 months worth...got people to prove it....left...why? coulnd't hack it....not enough time to commit to the game and to pay attention to all the things they have to pay attention to.i spent a couple months in whs....did fine there...cant live there by myself and don't have time to maintain it.its called real life....a job....i have bills to pay....while your spouting crap and everything thinking your impregnible...someones gonna cut you down to size.your kills are noob ships and frigates bulk of the time....and your a terrible leader. your answer to everything is get going or you pod them. you threaten them with brutality but you have no compassion for anything.yet you accuse me of being paranoid and tossing you out on your ass...how hyporcrtiical.so please..get over yourself.i never said i was a pvp'er..yet you insist no pointing out i suck at it...you know what jack..we know that..thank you for pointing it out.maybe you should take care of your life a little more and spend less time with your head burried in this game for a change.you might actually learn something for once.everyone can see the writing on the wall...everyone sees your killboards and everyone knows whats really going on.you failed to learn that once..and you will fail once again.so keep hurumphing and smacktalking me...you will get nothing....and you will continue to fail miserabily as you utterly have no imagination efforts to copy me. (oh i found that out too)you make claims that we're dead and hemorging funds....so far...its become quite obvious your throwing isk away faster than i ever thought possible.its publicly posted and quite obvious.you say i dont undock...you say i dont do this don't do that...did it occur to you that i'm not niterested in playing the game your way like a total idiot without regard for tactics?no...you don't think..thats right..you just kick people in the teeth and yell liek a 3 year old who doesn't get his way.please..go right on ahead....no ones going to stop you...and you'll just keep spraying your garbaging bossing me around and telling me to leave.get used to it jack...im here to stay.that goes for everyoen else in your little motley crew.get it through your thick skulls...i dont care...you where tossed out...rejected..refused...and trashed.you can scream..you can whine...aint going no where.this is no different than someone yelling at the goons.your just a buncho f babies....well keep crying. your good at it after all.maybe its your purpose in life now....its all you do now.cry at me and complain....please by all means keep going.and as to the arguments people keep spraying about tanking hulks and suicide gankings.keep talking like you know what your doing....you dont.just because you can eft warriorize your \"stuff\" doesn't maen it will matter worth a damn in-game.just try and go fly your hulks tanked up in gal space and tell me how it works out for you.talk like your pro suicide gankers and all dat.it's funny...i don't see the goons throwing a fit...they are having a blast.and snice your so busy pointing out i suck....i guess you should check to see the last time i lost a mining ship.oh...yeah...thats right...i havn't.once again your ignorance...and your aragonace...shine like a disgusting blemish on your faces.you keep making threats...smacktalking...yet you do absoltuely nothing.except throw your members into the maws of foolishness and scream at them for being stupid.please jack...stop lying for once....and maybe you live long enough to survive.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"bahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahaha, your lies on humorous, if you really gave back his stuff, why not hand over the nomad thats also his? oh wait, thats right, you don't intend to give anything back, so that's confirming both liar and thief. real positive leadership skills there.you not being a pvp'er isn't really the issue too much. the issue is that you are literally terrible at everything you try.pvp - 0/7pve - lost a legion in a mission (was completely sober too, no drunk excuses here)leadership - terribad at that, just look at your lovely one corp alliance and corp that has maybe 3 actual people onlinetactician - self claimed tactician you say? never heard your advise on how to deal with the wars. you just docked n hide. there is a difference in thinking of a strategy and constantly sitting in the station. strategy is good, don't get me wrong on that, its utterly stupid to not use a strategy. but you don't do that either, just sit in station and ***** like a girl. edit: i'm really bad about typos lol"
"first off the nomad was only 50% of his...the rest belonged to someoen else.speaking of which who the hell are you again? maybe this \"person\" should speak for themselves instead of a child like you.secondly...who gives a flying crap about losing ships in missions anyway?this is eve online...you will lose your ships...the differnce is... i wasn't carrying plex at the time...and i wasn't throwing an entire fleet of hardware in harms way.a mistake is a mistake...a leader however throwing his members in harms way...is a little harder to ignore.who the hell said i needed to undock whenever you said i needed to again?i play this game just like everyone else..the way i want to.stop pushing your game on me....and get over yourself.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"why can't we all get along?some days you're the bug, and some days your the windscreen. and some days, you're just a man with a gun."
"wow, you lie and sling mud worse than most sleazy politicians. and the sad part is, you don't know a damned thing as to what was going on.- pvpers don't \"throw hardware into harms way,\" we go looking for a fight. you find one, some you win, some you lose.- i didn't know that the following classifications of ships were frigs or noob ships:..destroyers..cruisers (note the faction ones)..battlecruisers..battleships..command ships..mining barges..exhumers..control towers..pos modules- you know nothing of leadership, as a real leader respects the wishes of his people, and will do just about anything to help them out, as a leader believes in respect. but once again, that would require you actually knowing something about leadership. i've been in combat situations real world, and it's all about trusting the people that are around you with your life- what about the rorqual that you sold off to fund your own faction, t2 and t3 ships? the one that wasn't yours?- who the **** do you think you are to tell someone they don't have a life? you're the one that spends every waking moment on the bloody forums. only reason i have an overabundance of free time is because i'm sitting in a third world country defending your right to be a worthless piece of ****. unlike you, when i'm home, i'm going to spend time with my friends (which you need to find some your mommy didn't acquire for you) and family (which obviously didn't teach you anything about social interaction)- on tactics, you can't speak of anything you have no experience with- and despite losses, we still have fun, which what you fail to realize, is this is a game, and that is the goal. and now, you can go **** yourself.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"because of illiterate people like drake who completely ignore the content/context of prior posts to attempt to make their own (albeit weak) points.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"wolololol, not trying to push anything on you. just pointing out that your rather terrible at every aspect of eve.i'm also not pointing out you lost a ship, just pointing out that your also bad at pve, as well as pvp, leadership,anything etc., etc.,i also never said that you had to undock at my command, your getting confused on what i'm saying. your reading this as \" you must do as i say cause im better than you\" when it states \"your terrible at this game, why are you paying to ship spin?\" so in short, enjoy the hanger bays, if thats your style. ( it is)oh this rand could go on a while, but damn that burrito looks tasty"
"yes...lets have everyone scruitinize your claims..... i'm sure they will really find out who you are really.its all public knowledge after all.respect? respect means not backstabbing or betraying your partners jack..you know better.i still have the rorqual jack...not that you give a crap.and i happen to work at a job that lets me surf the web while doing my work...again..not that you give a crap.tactics? every major engagement you've been in has resulted in a collasial loss of hardware....again..public knowledge.the evidence is clear jack...your a phoney.oh and jack...the authority that dictates me to tell you what to do...is the same one you use to tell me to biomass my toon.imagine that.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"and yet again, bullet points missed. public record, yes, but apparently you only pick and choose what you want to see, and the things that \"strengthen\" your points.i guarantee if put in a situation that you actually had to do something, you'd probably choke.collosal? hardly. and you can take your self-derived authority, your sense of entitlement to anything but the right to sit back and stfu and shove it up your desk jockeying ***. you work your little 9-5 and keep sucking the boss' **** and you may get ahead in life.because in a world of consequences and merit based promotion, you'd never last.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"as for backstabbing, look in the mirror before you pass judgement on anyone else.because you betrayed a lot of your friends. and when you have a \"leader\" that does nothing, it's called taking charge and cutting losses.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"the point of it being an exploit is that, there is a timer, being able to let the timer run out by parking in a station or switching to another account defeats the purpose of a timer and reinforces the advantadge to the wanna be bad boy. stop pretending that the timer is anytype of consequence. do away with it or make it run only while online and out of station."
"we'll let the public decide that jack...you can't hide after all.it's funny..its so obvious your bitter and butt hurt.you complani about me posting on the forums so often.how many times have you posted in the last 3 days jack?you should take a long look at yourself and taste your own medicine.oh and right back at you for your so called \"self dervied authority\"...same applies to you since your deciding to use that as an excuse.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"if you had ever been deployed, you would know that there is a lack of things to do. but then again, that would require you being able to actually do something that required you having motivation, and physical aptitude, as well as intelligence.and i didn't say anything about self-derived authority.i said that you had a sense of entitlement, and a sense of oversignificance.you've been bouncing around jobs because you have problems with anything that puts stress on you. after twenty years, you're still going to be the same sad sack you are now. twenty years from now, your waning funds will be paying my retirement and benefits, i'll still have buddies i've made throughout the military, and will have pictures, stories, memories, medals and scars. you are nothing. you haven't earned the right to talk about me in the way you feel entitled to, let alone stand in my shadow. i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"actually jack i've been gainfully employed for about a year.anything else you'd like to smacktalk me about?oh and jack...no one said you earned the right to talk to me about my life either.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"honestly, i can talk about you however i'd like, based on the fact that i protect the very document that gives your rights.and as for your being employed for a year, big accomplishment. my boots have more time in the desert (hostile locales) than you've had in the same job. may actually want to reconsider talking **** based on the fact you are the worst hypocrite there ever was. you talk about airing dirty laundry, but you're the one airing the flaws of others personal lives, and medical issues just to make yourself feel like you have a set of testicles.you are lower than the pile of fox **** i stepped in earlier today. you are pathetic. move along scum.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"isn't your job like xbox live phone support or something useless like the such?also, i'm wondering who gave you the authority to criticize other people's life? such as jack and cataire, namely those two so i don't create an eighth page on this already overdrawn thread. hmmm? i'm wondering who said it was okay to do such, and now you tell jack he hasn't \"earned the right\" to talk to you about your life, but you have? no. you're a ******* hypocrite, a whiny little *****, a **** stain on this community's set of boxers and a worthless ****. now please, shut the hell up and move along. these post you keep making continues to prove what i've said. get out of here, boy."
"i get the point. i am just saying it can't be technically called an exploit since he is playing by the rules ccp made. i guess my suggestion to resolve this would be to deny logoff while you have a gcc. if you have gcc and disconnect then your ship stays there completely vulnerable until your gcc is up or you are destroyed.in fact if i recall correctly didn't they already say this is being done?again...what he is doing isn't technically an exploit. it is probably something every pirate does on a very regular basis and i wouldn't personally call it an exploit. i do however agree that the gcc mechanics need some changing to make them more fair to the gankee."
"so what your saying is...your better than everyone and you dont care what everyone thinks just what you think.got that.\"oh and i can talk about you however i want whenver i want and thats that.\"if you can...so can i.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"where i work is none of your concern. (and i'm sure your gonna dream up some stupid ltitle smack for that)as to who gave me the right?the same as you and everyone else....a point you fail to realize repeatedly.you guys get all in a huff when i criticize yet you think you got every right in the world to point back at me and the tell me otherwise.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"drake draconis more like hazed draconis \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"^^ this. stop pushing your game on everyone else...and get over yourself."
"someone's overly sensitive feelings got hurt. and i find it hilarious.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"no offense jack...i just want to make the joke...you two need to get a room."
"who said i was pushing \"my\" game on anyone?all i've ever done is argue various points...not once did i demand one bloody thing.if anything you should learn to read carefully and stop jumping to conclusions on what you think you see between the lines.not once did i indicate i was agianst suicide ganking...only that its a little too easy.not once did i indicate i was sore over losing a ship...not lost one mining ship to a gank fest....unless you call whs as a count....didn't think so.yet everyone seems to think i'm buthurt over this so called \"imaginitive issue\" that people assume that i have.and jack over there should see a psychratrist....ptsd maybe?because he obviously has no self control to telling me what for and tehn telling me to \"off myself' (implied) yet i have no right to reflect that back...seriously?that's like saying someone has the right to suicide gank me/myself but don't you dare do it back to me/him or ill #### you over.that's rich...seriously....hillarity to be sure.i get accused of a multiple of things that are hillariously stupid beyond all reason for logical basis of \"i suck\" because i choose to take cautious routes...because i choose to not undock my ships or \"my fail fleet\" in the face of overwhelming fierpower and odds that everyone would deem as a collasial stupid move in the first place.no one said i had to do one damn thing you people seem to think i must do or else you sux.if it means i keep my goodies and have the option to use/employ thme as i choose then i guess i'm the most horrible player in the history of eve online.but what does that make you?the one who will fly in the face of an entire fleet and lose ships.what about the fellow who lost his 6 plex and someone walked off with billions if not an entire half yaer of subscription time? what does that make him?brilliant? genius?i thought it was common sense not to fly a shuttle near jita or any where near a market hub with valueable goods.yet you write this off as a \"calcuated risk\"calcuated my @$$if your the mighty and respectful jack carrigan...you should fire that member for imcompetecne..the same you did to the other corporations.that...is what i call a phoney.but your too busy emo-raging on me...so alas...i can't help that.this game has very serious rules...one you yourself have quoted me...do not fly what you can't afford to lose.you undock you agree to get your ass blown up anywhere including high security space...high sec is not safe..its safer.yet you call me a fail pilot for taking those warnings literally and true to the very words they mean.am i supposed to lose tons of ships to win the game?i'm sorry...i find that ******** beyond all reason.i don't get into a fight i know i will lose because i'd like to able to get to the next one that i will likely get out of in one piece if not fair better.sorry jack...i don't like walking to bars and beating the living crap out of 1 guy only to get myself in the hospital with the 15 people beating me up.i'm not that guy...and i don't play the game that way.if you think thats wrong...well sucks to be you pal...because this is who i am and i will play this game the way i want to.no different than you...and you or anyone else have utterly no right to tell me to quit this game when you enjoy the very same blanant foolish behaivour you impose on me.that is pushing a game on someone.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"none taken, as i appreciate good humor unlike some people around here.i actually laughed. and is draconis still posting? i stopped paying attention because i was busy doing something productive, like making isk.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"i don't 'read between the lines'. i answer your 'points' as you have raised them as have many others in this thread.the fact is you are quick to make assumptions about others but you get all bent out of shape when others do this to you.i find it incredible that even in the face of so many people pointing out the flaws in your 'points', you still cling to the belief that you are right and everyone else is wrong? now that is colossal arrogance.you are trying to push your game on everyone else. your 'point' is to make it more challenging for people to suicide gank. if that's not pushing your own agenda then nothing is. you still haven't answered my question as to whether you have even bothered to canvas opinion from suicide gankers as to whether they want any changes. i have done my best to remain reasonable with you but you are clearly the most moronic excuse for a human being i have ever encountered. good day to you sir."
"really?last i checked...its just you and jack carrigans gang who constantly smacktalk me upside down and everywhich way....they count for nothing.you however are just 1 person.and until you can come up with a reasonable rational argument...as opposed to eft-warroioring....then you have nothing more than yourself to blame.i meant what i said.the ganking is easy....defense is **** poor on a mining barge....it is designed to mine.to tank them is to decrease the profit margin at best...this is why i do not mine in obvious places.and if someone wants to take your ship down...your going down.there is no defense...concord will not save you.that is a fact.common sense says not to mine at that conclusion.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"for the third time, try and read this time, i have a tanked hulk and i have never lost a ship to suicide gankers.this is not 'eft warrioring' as you so quaintly put it. it's a real ship that has a passive shield tank. how many more times do i have to tell you this? i don't use eft. stats are no substitute for actually using the ship.yes you will have a reduce profit but as you are getting isk for free from a belt anyway, what's the problem? i would rather reduced profit than failfit my 200+mil ship and lose it to someone in a 800k thrasher.your point is moot. doesn't matter what ship you fly, least of all barges, you will die if the suicide gankers bring enough firepower to bare. but this is at least a challenge as they will need to coordinate their actions to take down, say, an orca in a 0.8 system with 40 bs's.*sigh* for the love of god! for like the billionth time on these forums...concord is not there to save you, they are there to punish the guilty. just like in real life, a cop can't throw you in jail for thinking you really wanted to murder the stupid posters on these forums. you must actually commit a crime first.if things were as bad as you think, why aren't the cost of minerals on the market spiraling out of control? the basic minerals from hi sec are pretty stable so this means that people are still mining perfectly happily.i still stand by my earlier comments, you really are a moron."
"can someone give me the tldr version off this it looks as if drake is posting his topical book of constant ********* like he did the whole time i was in his alliance and i didn't read them mails either."
"similing menace, i tip my space hat at you, you know whats up but you had the blessing of not having to deal with for 8 months.draconis, he got ya figured out from one thread, not sure if its pathetic on your part, or intelligence on his part. probably both.i have also never once took a jab at your personal life outside of my previous post. you claim we gave this \"right\" to **** talk our lives when we started it, but it was you that started insulting us personally, not the other way around. you lie and lie like their isn't a tomorrow out here because others don't have they knowledge jack and i do about you. as smiling mentioned your arguements have been invalidated multiple times with various reasons that have truth and facts behind them. yet you continue on to say \"nuhhuh! your wrong and i'm right, i can type more than you, listen to me goddamnit\" , is what 90% of your \"arguements\" are, the other ten percent is you attacking people publicly. now you refuse evidence from people who actually practice tanking their hulks. damn you are stupid. now your gonna reply calling me immature.... again. but i'm not spewing idiotic nonsense out for everyone to see.so again, get out, boy."
"+1 to jack carrigan, angry onion and smiling menace.-1 to drake draconis.just some unsolicited advice, drake: get off the personal attacks, reguardless if they attack you personally. state your opinion backed by facts, and those that agree with you, will "
"the gist of this post:the op got asploded in hi sec and thinks this sucks so wants to make life harder on suicide gankers so he can mine in peace with no interruptions whatsoever.drake has made 'points' agreeing with this that gankers need a 'challenge' without giving any real indication that this, in fact, is what suicide gankers want.he has made lots of nonsensical arguments about not fitting a tank to a hulk as you will be instapopped by a passing velator because the suicide gankers have all the cards in this scenario. tl;dr version:drake doesn't want his shiney ships asploded in hi sec and wants concord to sit and mine with him so he has company.disclaimer: i am not a suicide ganker but it is a fact of eve life. once again, they pay to play like the rest of us and if that's what they want to do, more power to them for enjoying the game their way."
"i think we agree the mechanics are broke, i consider it an exploit, it appears you think of it more in the vein of a workaround.like many of the mechanics and rules in eve, they seem to be introduced with no thought as to how the clever or dishonest can 'workaround' the original intent. i do blame ccp when something isn't working the way they 'thought it would' or hype it as a 'consequence for one's own action' and corrective remedies are delayed or ignored."
"wrong.drake doesn't give a #### if he loses his ship...if someoen is out to tan my hyde its gonna happen regardless.i'd just rather prefer to lose that ship with some sort of chance of getting out of it alive....and not hvnig to rely on the concord to \"save the day\".if you had been paying attention...youd know that by now.i have yet to lose my \"shiny\" ship to a ganker...and im sure it will happen one way or another.i couldn't care less.i'm only arguing what i see..know...hear...and read.stop jumping to conclusions and you may get somewhere with me.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"a bit like the activities you pursue and the things you have done in your eve career, am i right or am i right, drake?"
"ummm wrong thread you replied to?"
"i was going to refute your comments yet again but instead i will just 'lol!'."
"additionally, i think i speak for all of us here when i say that we don't really want go anywhere with youespecially as you are someone who refers to themselves in the third person, which is incredibly lame and sad and not at all as 'tough guy' as you would like to believe."
"drake if you knew how to properly tank a hulk then you won't lose it to a 1 man gank, as people have stated it can be done rather easy. this anit just point at drake, but being ganked is part of the game. eve is one big pvp server it does suck but put on your big girls undies and deal with it. that or get eve. people are going to gank people, or bait them, no matter what even if ccp put a penilty on said actions."
"can't argue with ya there.for the love of god people! stop feeding the troll! (i know, i know...i fed him by saying that.)"
"notice how he only argues what he sees, hears and reads, but not what he knows. i found the problem!"
"thank you...however...the very things you tell me not to do...they did in the first place.am i not entitlted to answer the accuser's?you'd rather i roll over and just take it?no thanks...that would make him keep it up...and he will not give up.he never does.that's why i'm hopping someone will test him and see if he really is \"all dat\".i already know i'm not when it comes to \"peeveepee\".he sure as hell isn't.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i would like to see a mechanic that affects the whole \"primary = boom\" tactic that is applied in fleets. a lock-stacking penalty may be an appropriate way to do this. it would make tactics more intricate and role-specific ships more useful. i could see a larger diversity in fleets except the standard blobs.however, there are still questions regarding chain logistics for example and the effect a friendly lock would have on enemy ships locking time. ccp would have to carefully consider the abuse factor of this mechanic should it be implemented.with regard to aoe explosions, this would be grossly tipped against close range ships and especially so for blaster-boats that need to sit on top of a target to deal optimum damage."
"not too sure about the other proposals but i like the aoe of exploding ships.i think a simple solution to this would be have it only on capital ships as the sub-cap ships don't have enough mass to cause an aoe effect? death of a capital should be spectacular, not the damp squib we have now. this way if you want to blob in your capitals, make sure you are very, very far away when one goes boom"
"i am not to worried about these new bcs yet, since we have not seen them in game. but the sad truth is, that battleships are not the dps powerhouses and valuable fleet asset they use to be.the role bs use to play has been eroded over time. the large tank, big guns lots of dps battleship but being slow and cumbersome is not as desirable as it use to be in small fleets. nor do they have a place in large fleets bs use to be used to overwhelm enemies fleets with there shear shock and awe power and ability to soak up damage. other ships have started to infringe on their roles as well as capital ships being so common now, they sort of take the place that bs use to.bs ships just have not scaled well with changes, that have happened over time.maybe they need a looking at to find a new place in fleets, in the game.maybe having large tanks, lots of dps if you can hit it. and being about as slow and agile as a brick in molasses is not working out so well for them."
"these ships are going to be pvp ships, but we need a thread (maybe use this one) to say what we dont want this ship to be. i dont want a small ship that takes longer to lock killing me with large guns before i can even lock it! if this ship is going to be balanced i think it can't have tracking bonuses, a fast lock time, or enough medium slots to sebo the thing up to 2000. these things are pretty much going to be paper-thin gun boats, so they shouldn't have more than 3 small or mid slots."
"they're not frigates or dessies, if that happened, it would completely invalidate their usefulness. they're all ready going to be paper thin as it , giving them such a stupid low amount of slots is practically making the ship useless. they will be hopefully designed to hit hard and fast and by limiting them to such low amount of mid slots, you reduce them to literally guns attached to engines with no useful purpose besides fire crackers. lrn2pvp"
"would suck to be caldari again with this proposal and to a lesser extent, minmatar.the bc's we have now are pretty good (unless you are gallente in which case, winter is almost here!) and they do pack a mighty punch (arty canes spring to mind) but they still die very easily to bs fleets. bs's are still used extensively in null sec to combat faster, nimbler bc's so i really don't think bs's need a buff. they still fill their role well (unless you are gallente in which case, winter is almost here!).i think with this one we will need to wait and see. can't really make any sort of informed opinions without knowing the specs of the new tier 3 bc's."
"i'm looking forward to these new tier-3 battlecruisers, however i do believe they need to have their own role, and should not simply be \"a better hurricane\" or \"a more agile battleship\". having said that, so long as their strengths are balanced by suitable weaknesses, and so long as they do not overshadow battleships or their tier-2 cousins, they should be an interesting addition to the line-up. i'll reserve judgement till i've seen some more details about their stats and performance."
"i disagree angry, these ships need to have there low, mids limited. you give them too many mids and lows they will replace the canes, drakes, etc ..i think they need a 5/4/3 for min/caldari and 5/3/4 for amarr/gal that way they will be \"glass cannons\" for sure."
"i am fairly positive these will end up being pure dps boats. likely they might work for pve a little and they will end up being capital busters. small enough that supercaps have a hard time hitting them but big enough guns to do the damage to take out a capital ship."
"along with other marketing and financial considerations, there is a big group of eve players interested in economic development. csm has seem to have very little interest in pushing for such add-ons that are not very complicated and are already monitored by ccp economist.please all people interested put your comments. those not interested please don't spoil the thread with useless comments, just omit it and be fair with others.food for thoughts....1. market informationi guess this is the first thing i would like to raise as a concern.we are so posed to be living a futuristic in-game life experience based on the technology designed by ccp but market information transparency regarding what is being sold or demanded elsewhere your current region is very difficult to get and follow. as well as in eve central market one should be able to easily sort market info from anywhere in the game:a. pricesb. quantities supplied and demandedc. select timeframe for queryd. customized dashboard of indicators for watch list.e. ability to download to excel files/ numbers mac worksheets any information request.2. marketing toolsprovide a place to put advertisements, space cans and cargos with long texts are not fulfilling the need.im not asking to populate eve space of crowded communications, but we could eventually have a couple of systems were you can put your own station or advertisement to make people enter and buy only your stuff. moreover, being able to better communicate your offers and not just morse code messages in trading channels.3. financial servicesits quite a complex market but we are not able to have banks, this is really needed when you are focused in trading.i know that most players are mainly interested in pvp but there is at least a small community of professionals that really enjoy and have fun with the cycle of mining, manufacturing and selling. my case...in these cases, npcs financial services would be an interesting concept to develop and i do believe is quite simple.corps could also be able to set their own banks and communicate it to the eve community. not saying this should be easy to get. probably more difficult than to open a corp.4. corporation stock marketif a corp is doing very well but would like to take their economic growth beyond, why not enabling the possibility to corps and investors to interact in a digital stock market place?this will also bring improved market performance and funding.5. freelance sales representatives contractsif we do have contracts for people that are able to provide distribution services, why couldn't we offer products for resale and paying a commission without needing to sell the full items and then make the salesman bare all the risk. some enthusiastic sales people could power up items availability and market competition benefiting everyone.ok guys have other suggestions regarding the subject but not as important as these ones.could u provide feedback if this can be escalated to ccp or not?thanks and good luckroldanusblack anvil industries corporation"
"your name is totally \"rolled anus\", isn't it?"
"not just no but hell no."
"this pretty much.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"bad idea. no support from me on this one."
"dynamic sec status sounds very good - i'd definitely want to see that. all those trying to protect their play style and in-game habits just fear the need to adapt even a little. sec too low/high for you? get to work lowering it back to your needs!that said, i won't support you proposal. it does not seem complex enough and thus far too likely to be gamed in some way. activity involving risks and costs should be required to affect something as fundamental as sec status, and it needs to be kept up for months. sec changes should primarily reflect player behaviour, not targetted campaigns."
"should be no insurance payouts for any ships. we should all be friendly peeps and not shoot the crap out of each other so that one frigate you buy will last a lifetime..... seriously, i like this one. +1*fake edit*why don't we have troll quotes yet??"
"as in the previous thread... +1"
"+1 for realistic boobies."
"with t2 gang links this is only going to get worse; more bonuses at the cost of additional cpu and grid will keep promoting ultra-specialized characters who can fly all of your links on a single platform that is never exposed to any risk."
"necro posting bad. bad bad boy!still supporting making gang links only work on grid."
"bumb, cos links ships are dumb"
"+1 because it's silly to project fleet bonuses across solar systems. if you're not on the same grid, you are not an active part of the fleet."
"not supported, unless the grid mechanics are also dramatically reworked as well... after all, if you're wanting to talk about weird meta stuff that affects combat in counter-intuitive ways, there is nothing that does this quite so badly as the grid. if you make any kind of 'on-grid' requirement for command ships, then what happens next is that more people start playing grid-fu, and suddenly all sorts of fights are taking place on ridiculous grids designed to isolate the cs from the battle while still keeping it technically 'on-grid'."
"this looks delicious..."
"yer- [img]"
"i always liked this dropping out of warp effect linkage skip to 54 seconds inor this linkage"
"something like this.instant warp with a flash of destination direction.linkagei like the direction of this thread."
"<U+FFFD> i miss the \"wob wob wob\" sound the warp scramblers used to make<U+FFFD> i'd like each ship to have a unique sound, the same way pod racers in star wars tpm had different sound, the same way ships in \"i was there\" trailer had different sounds<U+FFFD> strip miners and ice harvesters look too similar"
"wall of math insurance fraud aheadbah. i may need to clarify based on some chats i've had on the matter of insurance and the bounty proposal. the way i understand it, vr's -5.0 sec idea means that when you are below -5.0 security your insurance goes to paying off your bounty cost (correct me if i'm wrong, not sure how else it would work). in this case, the hunted man can gain equity by simply plat insuring, or insuring at any level, even the default, as the amount of bounty goes down every time he gets a ship destroyed, with no corresponding payout to current or future killer(s). they way it would be exploited is as follows (based on pend rates for a t1 ship):1) hunted (100m bounty) buys 100% insurance on a 10m ship (policy cost 3m).2) alt blows up his ship and gets 5m. the hunted 's bounty now goes down to 85m instead of 95m, and he gets his insurance back. loss = cost of policy (3m). hunted man/alt profits by 2m, and 10m extra potential disappears from bounty hunters. he can do this until the escrow runs out for (if he calculates his ship cost carefully) a profit of 12.67m isk, and a loss to the bounty payers of 100m, since it's their money in the escrow.if the hunted man can buy insurance but it doesn't pay off the bounty, he actually profits more, as the escrow runs longer:1) hunted man plat insures a 10m ship for 3m.2) alt kills his ship and gets 5m. hunted man loses 3m as before.3) he can now do this 20 times, earn 40m isk, and still cost the bounty payers 100m isk.even if the hunted man doesn't buy insurance, he still gets 40% of his ship value back, so he can pay down his bounty at a 10% loss in ship values.the only ways to get around this are (1) decrease the ship value payout of the bounty to 25% (instead of 50%), or (2) simply void all insurance, even basic, while bountied. since it requires less math, i'm in favor of decreasing the ship payout, at least until such a time as the insurance mess is fixed."
"i'd like to see this tied to killrights so that miscreants can't simply place a bounty on people that smiled at them the wrong way (you can do that the unofficial way). so you could only place a bounty if you had killrights and placing a bounty would use your killrights.i'd also like to see killrights changed so that they are granted any time a pilot gccs and successfully destroys the target. as they are now, you won't get killrights if you return fire which includes ecm, tracking disruptors and other \"defensive\" measures.this would make criminality more of a choice and people might start thinking before they shoot and before you know it people are flying into low-sec because it's not simply instant helldeath. who am i kidding, it wouldn't change anything -- but there would be a plethora of bounties for pilots to collect.some good ideas and discussion at this guy's blog and it's from a pirate perspective.i was against voiding insurance because i thought it would penalize criminals too much -- but some pirates convinced me they were okay with it. seems like it's the best solution."
"supported! +1"
"-5 sec status should void insurance policies on all your ships. it's supports the risk vs reward myth that is the weak link/ lynchpin of eve that is constantly tossed about in discussions. if you are willing to risk having no ships insured at any time you"
"while it makes a lot of sense to tie the question of kill rights into this (much like the insurance dilemma), i fear this would overload this proposal and thus reduce its chances to get to ccp. thing is, there are quite a few proposals on kill rights out there, and i'm not sure we'd get the uncontested best in this proposal, making it more likely that someone will shoot this bird down on its way to iceland.what's more, the suggested changes here would work in their own - making the kill harder for sure, often completly illegal, but still possibly worthwhile.one small change i would suggest: let it not be concord that keeps track of bounties but pend insurance. it's just silly if concord pops you and then hands out the bounty for the kill it popped you for. :)"
"+1, that and it'd be nice to auto-load ammo and/or drones (and nanite paste) as well into the cargohold"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"easy +1, and if includes an (optional) \"are you sure (y/n)?\", it will just add all the options required to satisfy all users."
"definitely supported!tusker, small gang pvper, and author of the altruist (guides to pvp in eve) formerly director of agony unleashed's pvp-uni"
"easy +1"
"yeppers. onward and upward ccp"
"1.0"
"no brainer +1"
"and while they're at it, include weapon groupings as well. i've also noticed that the placement of modules in the ui is remembered on a particular ship even if it's traded to another character... they should have the fittings window inherit this as well."
"immediately if not before.many thanks"
"1.0"
"jesus, we have likes, isn't that enough?!"
"what use are they? they target people or, more precisely, postings. check out a proposal with lots of likes and you'll find that they do not necessarily signify brad support, but often just gleeful support of a derisive answer. just as the like for your posting now seems to give support to my proposal."
"you're right, they do support individual posts (which is better because it's more granular). and you're thinking about it the wrong way, once you recognize that those likes for dissenting posts are also dislikes for the op, it makes a lot more sense."
"why? it just jumbles all likes of individual posts into one - you have to leaf through the thread to see what the total likes in a thread actually signify. yes you may consider it a measure of the heat of discussion within, but it might as well be one of general consensus or ridicule. a support button, on the other hand, would be far easier to interpret and use. if we left the like button as it is, what problems do you see with adding a op support button?btw, i see what you did there... ;)"
"the 'support' feature of the assembly hall should return in the form on two buttons. 'supported' and 'opposed' buttons would go a long way in showing ccp and other readers how popular/unpopular a topic is. that said, i think the like button should stay in its current form."
"they are proposing changed to the pi stuff and it looks great.can pos borrow it plox.i.e. use different standings / relationships (owner, corp, alliance) to access different mods but easier would be nice :p"
"this is a good idea pos now look more like scrap piles trapped inside a force field. this is an upgrade that changes no functionality (unless you give us a cq in the corp hangar) which would greatly improve playability imo. ship maintenance arrays should display ships like the current in station hangar with different levels of completion and swarms of workers/ drones on scaffolding around the ships. simple animations like those used in station hangars should not over tax servers. i support implementation asap."
"this is a proposal i decided to make it's own thread for since it was part of another thread i made and seemed to be the only popular proposal of the 3. i also had this thread in the original forums and it seemed to be split in terms of support. i will try to be a little more clear on this proposal.so the idea is to have aoe damage from ships exploding in space from combat damage. it was brought up in the previous thread that self destructing your ship should not cause aoe damage. i agree with this and a good reasoning would be that a self destruct is a \"controlled\" explosion achieved by purging your power core. when it comes to exploding from combat damage taken an aoe explosion similar to a smart bomb would occur. the explosion itself wouldn't have to be too different from a smartbomb in itself in fact. damage type would be based on the faction of the ship that is exploding. damage radius based on ship size. amount of damage also based on ship size. smaller ships would be able to mitigate the damage better than larger ships thus taking less damage total. distance from the exploding ship and also your own ships speed would also be a factor in damage mitigation. the further away you are the less damage you take and the faster you move the less you take. the damage itself should be enough to do decent damage but not enough to take any ship from full shield to gone. i wouldn't say the damage should even be enough to do 20% of a ships main defense in damage. one main concern is that of this occuring in high sec with pirates mass killing people in jita and what would happen with the resulting gcc. this one is simple. no aoe damage in high sec. this is already done by the fact that you cant use smartbombs. this will prevent pirates and gankers from using their ships to mass kill people in jita. no aoe damage in high sec. very simple.when it comes to low sec however we could either apply the same rules as high sec or allow it and assign the gcc from each explosion hitting another player based on the last person who hit the exploding target. whoever got the killmail gets the gcc for each person that exploding ship hit with its explosion. personally i am for the latter train of thought as it is low sec. killmails themselves should also be assigned to the last person to hit a ship in cases where a possible chain reaction of exploding ships occurs in large fleet fights. so it would be possible for one person to get 2 or more kills with his final blow on one ship. that part i am sure is highly debatable. this damage is not meant to be a tool for doing massive aoe damage but instead another dynamic part of the game to mix up pvp and separate the blob a little. i am looking for constructive feedback and opinions on the issue."
"so exactly how, from a lore perspective, could you justify this not happening in highsec? if a ship explodes, it explodes. doesn't matter if it's in jita or ec-p8r. the explosion is the same, so it should do the same thing."
"thats actually a good and valid question. one which i knew would come up. before someone had brought this up and suggested something along the lines of concord placing some magical tech device that supresses ship explosions so they do not effect other pilots. i believe at that time i suggested this only be implemented near stations and gates so that gcc and damage from exploding ships could occur everywhere else in a high sec system but just not within a certain range of gates and stations. i think i was thoroughly shot down on that idea for some reason. i still feel it is reasonable however."
"see bold/underlined text.it is made of fail.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"i didn't say it was a good \"lore\" idea. i said it was something suggested by someone else in the previous thread. frankly for the lore aspect of it i could care less. the mechanic would only be in place to prevent the massive carebear tears in high sec that would ensue. did you have a better idea jack? i wouldn't mind seeing it if you do."
"i foresee small amounts of lag with this proposal."
"couldnt gates and stations in highsec be outfitted with an anti-aoe device that has been stopping smartbombs so far but now also ship explosions?"
"that was kind of the point yeah. its already been done with smartbombs...wheres the lore in that and just build off it."
"1.0"
"came in expecting carebear whining......found an excellent suggestion. i myself would love to hunt down the scum of the game. if nothing else, having an option to be deputized by concord and get extra rewards for bringing down the hammer on criminals would be an awesome option to have. concord needs to do something, they seem to be engaging in epic failure at the moment. can't even keep highsec safe from the wretched hive of scum and villainy that is eve."
"i might have done that on purpose."
"there are a lot of mechanisms in this game for being a \"bad guy\", it would be really nice to see a system in place for the opposite. and i don't think the effects on the piracy business will be as grave as some suggest. instead it adds depth to the piracy system. instead of just jumping into a low sec system and killing the first ship you see, it would require you to check out systems, see where concord militias are active. similarly, if \"good\" players can gain control of a bunker to become deputies, pirates should be able to \"kill\" the bunker to remove that ability. as far as the gcc beacon following pirates around, i think this is a good mechanic. if you're just one ship, you'll have to keep warping around, again \"running\" from the deputies. if you're a gang, there are a lot of different approaches you can take. have one ship agress a player, and draw out the deputies, while you have a group go hit the outpost. kill the bunker, and the gcc beacon goes away, since it is only available to deputies, and there would be no deputies in a system without a bunker. or agress with a smaller ship, and warp to a large gang. concord deputy shows up and gets popped. this encourages not only small group piracy, but small group anti piracy. if you're just one ship, and warp to the first gcc beacon that pops up, you risk jumping into a trap. on the other hand, agressing the bunker would generate a gcc, so the deputies in the system could warp back to defend it. again, preparation, coordination, fun. i think this system adds some great things to the game. for one, it makes it possible for industry/pve type people to live in null without taking away the pvp aspect of the systems. it also encourages larger scale combat for low sec systems. there is no \"x corp controls this system\", but rather \"there is or isn't a concord presence in this system\", and that control is something contended for by pirates and deputies. pirates want no bunker present so they can kill freely, deputies want a bunker so they can hunt pirates at least provide some semblance of protection for small corp/solo industry/pve players. it also adds a great mechanic for small group pvp which is something a lot of people have been asking for. +12edit: another note about encouraging the population of lowsec, i will freely admit to being a carebear. i like my highsec missions. on the other hand, if there were some lowsec systems that popped up as having a concord presence in them, i would venture out for some lowsec missions/exploration. it doesn't make it safe, you can still get scanned down and jumped by a gang, but it provides at least an attractive feeling of safety. and honestly, if you can implement a system to get more 4bil tengus roaming around your systems, who would say no? which is all besides the fact that you can still gate camp the systems leading to the concord deputized areas. you can use the illusion of \"concord safety\" to bait people attracted to it. ultimately, it adds another level of challenge to piracy. it's not actually harder to gank anyone, it just adds the potential for conseuence for doing so. plus, if you're prepared, getting one gudfite practically guarantees another. kill your target, in pops another. it basically escalates pvp in lowsec. if you want to solo pvp, roam the unoccupied systems. if you want gang pvp, fleet up and kick out some concord deputies, then gobble up whatever miners/mission runners are left in the system. or fleet up and kick the pirates out of a system."
"3 things spring to mind that may have been covered in these posts.first timer for pirates, without instant warp to pirates, you'll need a long timer to hunt them down, second it needs to allow deputies to roam or we have the crossing state line to safety game.last why concord? why not deputised by faction? min corp faction needed then off you go. i know it's a bit of roleplay, but why would the factions want more concord meddling, much better to secure their own space.great idea though, and gets a +1 from me"
"unless it's a hexagon?there is always someone asking for some way to decloak afk cloakers but why? if they are afk then why are you bothered? would you be as concerned by that red that sits in station all day instead? or as pointed out by the wh monkies, if there was no local and you didn't know he was there, would you still be worried about the possibility there was an afk cloaker around?9/10 they are in a sb and as soon as they try to kill someone, they will die in a fire if people are paying attention.if you are worried about being hotdropped, should you really have been mining/plexing/ratting in the first place?quite happy with the way cloaks and cov ops/recons work and don't think they need changed.however, it would be good, as someone else pointed out in another thread, if there was a specific mod that could be used to uncloak ships in a 15km radius. i remember the snowball launchers we got a few xmas's ago did this very well......"
"they...came...from...be*dies in a horrible explosion*cue - dramatic music.oh wait...sorry.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"since your focus seems to be careers, i have three suggestions. bounty hunting. this has already been suggested a few times in this thread, but i'm adding support because this career path is pretty desperately needed in a game about shooting other people's space ships. this isn't specifically a high-sec thing, but it would promote pvp in high-sec. taurean eltanin wrote a blog post outlining an idea -- while i don't agree with everything he said, it's a really good base to work from. it works based off turning killrights into a bounty and part of the idea is depriving the criminal of his insurance -- but only allows registered bounty hunters to collect. taurean suggests some minimum security status, but i don't see why you can't just let anybody do it. maybe some of this can be combined with mogopogo's suggestions.mercenary work. we already have mercenaries, but it's a sort of ad hoc thing generally used to harass or demoralize a target. it quite leaves out any sort of defensive work. i wrote a post about this quite a while back. it would be great if you could have defense contracts with mercenaries which would put them into the war immediately as sort of an extension of your own corporation. clearly there's still room here to be vile and cause problems (by not actively doing any defense even when hired) but with the right kind of contracts in place you could ensure a decent reward for active mercenaries.lawmen. i think we ought to remove or greatly delay the faction navy spawns that harass criminals moving in high-security space. give players a chance to do some of that work if they want to -- i know i would. but i think you've got to couple this with changes to security status -- make it harder to work off your negative status. seriously, it makes no sense that a primary money-making activity fixes your status as a criminal. i wrote a little more about it, but it's not as important as the core of the idea -- specifics just bog things down sometimes.bring pvp junkies to high-sec."
"i think it would be easy enough lets say you are in a system with 5 gates the software eaven though you pronounce the name incorrect would recognice which of the 5 gates you mean and if it still can't you could just say \"warp 100km gate 'm' 'a' 'a'\" and it would figure out what gate you mean just by the first three letters and warp you there and with regards to astroids you could just say \"mine the closest astroid\" or \"lock and mine astroid 20 km to my left\"with regards to logis you could just say something like \"primary task don't let fleet get below 50% shield. secondary task keep fleet at 100%\"so it would actually make things easier and would let the pilot concentrate about other thing."
"you must never have been in combat situations where you needed to warp immediately. here's the conversation as i picture it:\"warp to the maadimilire gate!\"\"error: celestial not found\"\"warp to mad gate at zero!\"\"error: celestial not found. please spell name\"\"warp to m a a d gate at zero!\"\"warp target found, initia--\" boom your ship is toast.have you ever been in a belt and looked at the overview? do i even have to explain how often this would frustrate people?where i come from, that would be called a logi macro. you're not just talking about making it easier, you're talking about removing all the difficulty of running logi for a fleet. with your system, there wouldn't be anything for the logi pilot to concentrate on, as you've just automated the only task they have in combat.would you like a \"win now\" button with that?"
":p it looks like there will be some changes coming to the csm process so it will be new for most of us next time round taking part in the assembly hall and having an active interest in the future of the game is a pretty good start though :p"
"1) no2) none 3) plex, aurum, the nex store4) yes5) yes6) yes7) yes8) no9) no10) no11) no12) undecided13) yes 14) yes15) yes"
"|| friendly bump for an important topic ||"
"i take it you have never been on an aircraft carrier, submarine, or any sort of metal moving structure at all? things such as that make high-pitched screeching noises iwth very quiet rumbling as a abckground just sitting still, and with space and all the debris in it (not to mention if your taking hits in battle) with metal buckling and stressing, there would be alot of high-pitched noise, heck, any metal joint in a ship when exposed to stress will creak, and any turret mounting on a navy vessel without a whale's worth of oil will screech when turning.but maybe ive just been on really old falling apart ships and have no idea what im tlaking about, but that is unlikely.though i will agree, eve could use some cleaner, more finsihed, sounds than current, but nothing to the point of ridiculousness, remember, space is a quiet place, where no one can hear you scream!(great, now im going to ahve nightmares about reavers and that half-human half-xenomorph thing from the alien movie, thanks alot for making me post op)"
"this.sound gets in the way of comms and movies."
"yea get rid of the god aweful sound when your at a belt shooting rats, and the sound of radio chatter or whatever it is comes on. soooo annoying, i dont wanna hear that i only wanna hear the lasers"
"this is a fantastic suggestion, it pointed out a few issues i hadn't even realized were bothering me as much as they are.please, beautiful sounds for a beautiful game.and definitely, definitely, more bass."
"well said"
"as is immediately obvious to anyone who has worked with them, the rorqual really doesn't do what it's marketed to do. no one in their right minds would have their hugely expensive rorqual sitting in a belt grabbing the cans... instead, the rorqual always and exclusively sits in a pos, passively radiating it's bonus while chewing up ore. that'd be pretty bad design in general, but most people who use rorquals have mining alts anyways, so it's probably not like an actual person is sitting in the pos cooling their heels. of course, that does mean that the tractor beam bonus on the rorqual is pretty much worthless.on the other hand, we have the orca, which is usually found in the belts, sitting there radiating bonuses and grabbing the loot. they aren't plagued with any kind of siege mode that renders them supremely vulnerable, so clever orca pilots can reasonably flee when hostiles show up... which is why orcas can afford to sit in the belts, where clever pirates might manage to gank them.accordingly, i propose that the rorqual be stripped of it's scanner/tractor bonuses, and instead be given a bonus more suited to what it actually does... fuel consumption on it's jump drive, for instance. at the same time, replace the orca's bonus with ordinary tractor beams with the ability to use capital tractor beams. that actually makes capital tractor beams kind of useful, and something orca pilots would want to use over regular tractor beams... and at the same time, replaces a totally useless bonus on the rorqual with something that people will actually benefit from.an alternative would be to instead tweak the industrial core, and the rorqual in general, such that sieging a rorqual in a belt doesn't necessarily mean doom... probably give a sieged rorqual some of the usual capital protections, and generally make rorquals more buff so it can handle some pew pew, if properly supported. lots of options to choose from on this route... a bonus to sentries while sieged, perhaps, possibly including an additional drone per level? in any event, the end result of this choice should be that a rorqual sieged in a belt offers a degree of protection to a local mining op, instead of representing a huge vulnerability, and should require nontrivial effort to take down.thoughts?"
"i have always thought it would be cool that if the rorq would have an automatic \"mini hauler drone\" in it. kinda like a drone.you tell it to fly to a toon and back and it would just fly to the toon - and warp right back.the toon that is mining would have to put the ore in the mini hauler b4 it does a turn around and fly's back to the rorq.the price of the rorq + being in deployed mode + ice fuel being used should justify it.the more skill you have in a mining drone - the more little haulers you can have wizzing by to pilots to pick up ore.who in their right mind would pull out a rorq or an orca in ls or null or wh -"
"are you saying a mini hauler drone that actually warps out to the mining op in the belt to get filled with ore? and then warps back to the pos? that... sounds like a little much, tbh.either we want the paradigm where the rorqual is a glorified pos module, or we want the paradigm where it is beefy enough to sit sieged in the belt. the two are mutually incompatible. if the rorqual is doing the job of the haulers, it should be at risk in the belt; if it's not, a hauler is needed."
"ship spinning is not a group activity in the mmog eve. but when this solo pleasure was removed the wails of numerous individual pilots finally forced ccp to recalibrate their thinking. so how is it a bad thing for other solo pleasures in eve to be spoken of openly? are the captains quarters open to other pilots you invite in? nope solo pleasure. what about those nex purchased boots? anyone going to see them in your headshot portrait? nope solo pleasure. so when ccp establishes a solo pleasure it is good, but when players, aka the people who pay the bills for ccp, find solo pleasures where none were intended it's bad. i would like to see the different styles of game play openly embraced by ccp and not seemingly disregarded. if solo players are a small fraction of the ccp revenue stream do they really want to reduce it even by a small amount? most business plans seek to grow and cultivate paying customers when doing so does not force them to give up their primary mission/ goals. working to accommodate solo play without sacrificing the group dynamic of eve is not impossible or even that hard. i have accounts that cover the spectrum from alliance to corp down to solo each has a different return for my investment of time and money, i only hope that ccp appreciates all styles of game play even when it's not happening exactly as they planned or projected."
"full support.free kugu!"
"don't unban. site is full of dirty hacker and who knows what else they are involved in. they have a private section called foreplay. i wouldn't be surprised if they traded kiddie pics in there."
"i support this."
"whoa now, that is quite the accusation. i'll have you know that we at kugutsumen do not endorse, promote, solicit, create or distribute child pornography in any shape or form - unless that form happens to be a cartoon high school girl being molested by a squidplant demon ninja. and even then she's 18 in the american dub, so that makes it totally legit."
"agreed. censorship sucks. get over it, ccp."
"you're dumb \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"free kugu, keep bfm banned"
"if there was no kug ut su men then there would be no csm. without a csm ccp would be wondering why their subs were falling while prescribing the cure \"more incarna\". and that would kill eve. so ccp should man up and write the k-dog a very nice thank-you letter."
"free kugu!"
"i see the advertising plan is working. good work gentlemen."
"i find it amusing that mittens is on the csm, yet kugu is still banned.free willy!"
"no more posters on k.com please.we have enough spergers as it is."
"k.com is the site there keep pulling me back each time i try to stop with eve. do i really want that on my eve-o?yes i do... free kugu"
"like that propagandas guy \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"you just got hazed \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"posting to check if my alliance is censored too."
"haha, who seriously reads the eve-o forums anymore. then only reason i saw this thread is because it was linked on k.com.ccp, stop being ********."
"came looking for space herpes. left disappointed."
"talk about wasting metaphors on prime mates."
"how goes the revolution?"
"wis is more contentfis most things talked about players is to make the game easier to play, dumbing it down.just a though!"
"dear anela,you can't have sims in space with the eve server. the most people you can have in the sims is about 40 in one room/instance. eve is built on a single server, eve is not built with on an instanced platform. just imagine the lagg in jita if ccp tried to build a sims in space allowing 40 people per room with incarna's graphics! you would get a fps of 0.000000001! if ccp did allow sperate servers to run \"room\" instances for 40 people at a time say, a portion of your corp, then what would they do with this? ccp would not be able to integrate this in real time into the main eve server becasue of lagg.regards,astor"
"as of right now, the concepts being discussed are a bit too much for the current tech. i love the idea of walking out of my cq into a hallway full of other pilots, calmly walking down to the elevator, find which cq my wt is using ( can't have a dedicated cq for every single pilot, also can't fit a couple thousand cq's in a single hallway), go to it, kick down the door, and then kicking the **** out of said wt, and maybe stealing his ship . but any interaction on a massive scale that would be good for the game is too much for the hardware, and i love my laptop not catching on fire. put station interactions with other plays on the back burners till the tech can catch up some :)"
"eh? why ever not? its a totally separate environment- no need to interact with the server running the rest of the system.mind you time dilation might be interesting, you could pop into station for a cuppa, and emerge after half an hour having only missed 3 seconds of fighting"
"sorry.....there are many things you can accomplish even in an hour.this is not the game for short play tmies and big rewards.you get what you put into it....and just that.i suggest pi or perhaps a couple missions or some such.even a quick juant around low sec for thrills an giggles...if your into that sort of thing.that's just a short list of things that can be done inside an hour.whether they are profitable or rewarding however...is entirely up to you.\"beauty is in the eye of the beholder\"the case is the same for eve online....one mans waste is an another mans riches.time is applicable in this case.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"i hear you... personally, my eve time tends to be chopped into 1-2 hour blocks before and after work, so during the week, i operate under the same restrictions. personally, what i usually end up doing is spend my mid-week maintaining my economic activities... pi, market orders, hauling, manufacturing, whatever... and thus have plenty of isk to burn for my weekends, which is when i get involved in ops and whatnot. try and find a balance... if you don't have much time to sink into eve on one day, at least get the grunt work out of the way in preparation for an op later on."
"no one is asking to make the same reward you get in 4-6h to be achievable in 1-2h play periods.but let me work towards the 4-6 goal so in four 2h sessions i can come close. my reward per hour shoudl be lower, but i still should have fun accesable content fir both pvp and pve.eve time is after the kids go to bed and before i do. every day.i don't get 6h play time. all i do is maintain and do little things....none of wich are really fun or intresting."
"ok i have a couple of issues with asteriod belts.1) warp to... ?50km or whatever. warps you to within that range to the triangle. but this isnt really what your trying to do is it. you want to be 50 km from the belt. therefore you should be 50km from the outer most belt. whats the point of saying warp to 50km then end up in the middle of the asteroid belt? this has issues for instance covert ships when you want to just sneak up and see whats going on 'covertly'. not great when you get instantly decloaked, oh hai! another is when you get caught in the belt. which im coming to next. this is just a couple of probs.2) asteroid collision/proximity detection. is this a mechanic or just poor collision detection? how can you be seen to be xkm away from a roid and still be getting stuck on it? its a bit stupid. if this is meant, then why? if not then why after all these years its not been fixed? because when your fightingg, or ratting the worse thing is getting stuck on a roid you think your nowwhere near.before you say it, yes i know this has been like this for years, but these are issues i dont understand either is it purposely there or is it just not right, and if its not right why hasnt it been fixed. it can have a serious affect on gameplay."
"1: if you want to be a sneaky ninja, you need to make bookmarks first. \"i'm too lazy to get proper bookmarks\" is not an acceptable excuse, if you really want to be all sneaky and covert... failure to do your homework here will lead to your destruction.2: yes, collision detection is bad in a number of ways. some big asteroids you get stuck on some distance off, and some you can fly through. needs work, for sure."
"dude im not scouting and living in the area, now if i was, your point 1 would be correct, but when your roaming about its a different matter. also you cant be very sneaky say in a pilgrim, where in your case have a bm say 100km out to ensure you dont hit a roidits gonna take you ages to get to the target, because it takes so long when your cloaked to move. he will be gone be then..however cloaky was just an example also, even if you wsnt cloaky it causes so many issues. the simple fact is, when you warp to 50km you should warp 50km from the outermost roid."
"i fly pilgrim all the time. warp to 10 km. you'll land inside the rock belt, away from the beacon, and unless you're crazy unlucky you won't bump any ships in that range."
"\"i'm just roaming\" is exactly why you fail to get that precision. if you want specific and useful warpins, you need to go out there and get them first. i highly recommend investing time in a covops to scout through the space you like to hunt in, and bookmark key strategic places. that's the sort of preparation that makes the difference between success and failure.as for expecting to be 50 km away from the outermost roid... that really isn't how eve's warp system works, and i don't feel that the asteroid belts need to be an exception. if you're warping to the asteroid belt, you aren't warping to a rock, you're warping to a beacon in the middle of the rocks, and your distance from any given rock is determined by the composition of the belt and how busy the miners have been. don't like that? bookmark said outermost rock. warp to a celestial outbound of said rock. warp back at 50. create another bookmark. problem solved."
"atm self destruct is one of the big enemy's of smaller gangs (like one's i fly usually) as even when you managed to tackle a capital - they can always self-destuct, last 2 months or so i think i'm seeing like 10+ capitals to go this way both in low sec and 0.0(last one was chimera last night in syndicate).... and about this take more firepower issue.... lets take avg carrier 1.3m hp - so if you avg roaming ship is making like 400dps, you need like 30 of those to kill it with 2 minute - and sry 30 is already quite a big gang.... or you can make it capital online and then everyone wines that *nerf capitals*also one of the bad things atm more is - that usually in fight with lot of messages displayed all the time (guns/drones damage, scrambler messages etc... its quite often that self destruct messages will even not be notified before ship will actually self destruct - so even when ccp desired that they like self destruct as sucks and they will go fot it - they should add some kind of red timer to overview or something if there is ship(s) in grid who have self destruct timers online!its only a question of time before some super-cap fleet is beginning self destructed as they are losing fight and all doomed and no hope to save them-self with log-off - so they will make only thing they can to hit back and self destruct and deny km with enemy!but well - i hope this happens fast and generate a lot of wine so ccp will hopefully do something i understand you 100% this was nice bait (frig fleet) and then nice escalation (half the gallente low sec was there i think and you actually managed to kill one of the anchors before this was self destructing) what should give you as reward some nice capital km - however as last alternative for you enemy they can always self destruct and so deny your your reward as you was better today - maybe next time this is other way around and in the end there is large number of un-happy players!also this archon who self destruct was piloted by my (alt) - so i know what i'm talking (and until in-game why not to use it as weapon of last resort), but there is very few things in eve what would make my more happy than removing of self destruct as way to deny km!"
"nothing irritates me more than people who get cake and then ***** about the color of the icing.you killed the ship (even if they decided to blow themselves up, you know you did it). yet you're bitching because you didn't get the electrons to hang on your wall of e-peen.so is your goal really to kill ships, or is it to earn bragging rights? if it's the former, congratulations, you've accomplished your goal. if it's the latter, then either bring the dps to get the job done or pick targets you can actually kill before they self-destruct.though i have to admit, it's funny seeing the \"hardcore pvpers\" being the butt hurt whiners for a change."
"killmails exist and should be accurate."
"ccp manifest said this:\"killmails are great. they serve as reminders of good fights (or dubious mistakes). they let you measure losses inflicted on your enemy in cold hard isk. they also demonstrate some interesting choices in ship fitting, or cargo-movement attempts. if you're so inclined, they provide a way to track your kill/death ratio, and measure it against your peers. i especially like the ones where a pod gets squished. but i<U+FFFD>ve always felt that those pod-mails were missing a certain... something.\"in the forthcoming winter expansion, we<U+FFFD>re adding a much-requested piece of additional information to capsule killmails: they will now list the fitted implants of the unfortunate victim.\"not only does ccp endorse the use of killmails, they are putting more information on them to better reflect damage done. my proposal has the same result in that kills can't be \"hidden\" by the victim self destructing.it's more than butthurt or e-peen. damage done is often a goal in a war, or a win condition in a merc contract. the inability to prove you've dealt damage is a problem."
"if you are trying to prove stuff for merc contracts then i would like to point you in the direction of your logs, they have all the proof you need."
"logs can be faked. api-verified killmails can't (that i'm aware of)."
"."
"i'm wondering if there are any additional thoughts on this given the announcement regarding player owned customs offices (pco's), as it relates to pi and this thread topic?"
"understandable, drake, that they started it so you want to finish it, but in a debate such as the forums are, isn't the place for that type of action.and no, i would not like to have you roll over and take it, why? cuz' you have the right to defend yourself, as we all do. but, you don't have the right to personalize that retort.as it pertains to this debate, as soon as you, or anyone else resorts to personal attacks to make a point, they loose all right to be taken seriously. you of all people should know that.if they resort to name bashing or humilation tactics, be the bigger man and ignore that type of action and use solid facts of the topic to defend yourself. i know you have it in you to do this.some days you're the bug, and some days your the windscreen. and some days, you're just a man with a gun."
"tell you what.....you see if you can get jack to understand that....and i'll be more than happy to oblige.i'm not above calling it good and backing off....but this has been going on for nigh 2 to 3 months now.just do a saerch..i'm sure you'll find it very easily...if they haven't been scrubbed by the gm's as of yet.but none-the-less...valid point.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"zero-sevenzero-sevenzero-sevenget some credibility and then come back. in that other thread you were constantly puffing up your chest and spouting about how great you were. now you've got a little more humility, that's good. but, as others have said, you are extremely quick to attacks others personally, but get incredibly bent out of shape when others do it to you.to op: everything's working as intended"
"this thread is still here?!oh well:on topic:- passive shield tank your hulk- have an orca provide mining boosts assigned as squad commander- have nighthawk with shield harmonizing links providing shield boost- basilisks providing shield buffs with shield maintenance bots will help- mechanics work as intended (if this makes the game too hard, you need to find a new game)- if you don't want to risk a hulk, passive tanked mining rokh with orca/nighthawk support- pay attention to local and your d-scan- be mindful of concord being spawned at other locationsi am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"to add in some tips jack missed:- mine in odd locations, such as grav sites or grab a mission, clear it out of npc's, then mine it (thats 2 ways to get isk in one move!)- if you mine in belts, then move a bit! don't sit at the warp in point, thats begging for a ganking.- don't fall asleep!if these previously mentioned tips n tricks don't work for you, contract everything you own to me ( isk included) to me :d"
"you can mine with a completely untanked hulk...just pay attention and always stay actively aligned with a planet or station or whatever. i used to just bounce back and forth between two places while i mined...never lost a hulk but was jumped many times. now i make better money...no need for the hulk."
"i have read many posts and threads about taking local out of null-sec, and the opposite of players shouting to keep local.my personal view is a wish to actually keep local in null-sec, but what do i know since i'm just a carebear in pvp disguise .why am i making this thread of nonsense? i am proposing that there be an interesting setup for intel. with no local, many people lose an intel tool...ok so it isn't really a tool for intel, but it tells the player whether or not you should gtfo or fight onwards. why not we take \"no local\" as default for null-sec, but there would be an upgradeable structure of sorts that increases your intel usefulness in the system, to get to the point - the structure would give you a local box and depending on what upgrade it has, determines the effectiveness of local and intel from it.i just had this pop into my head, and it's not fully laid out as a proper proposal, but i'd like to see where you guys would take this. do you think this would be fair? if it's not truly what you would agree with how would you change it?i feel this idea, as currently just an idea with no real hard thought could be expanded and possibly welcomed by players. if you have questions please ask.tar"
"no.keep local in 0.0, there regular systems just like low and high sec, just owned by douche bags instead of npcs :pi could understand taking local out of wh space though."
"i created a new thread specifically for the aoe damage subject since this thread was for 3 ideas and i didn't want to focus on one in specific."
"i think you hit the nail on the head with paper dps. time was all i wanted in eve was a 'cane with 8 turret slots. i coveted this. the thing is it makes the bs somewhat more pointless. but if they are going to give a cpu/pg reduction for large turrets then those turrets will have all of the shortcomings that they have on a bs. just without a bs frame supporting them. which may be satisfying to eft warriors but results in a bs with worse tracking and likely (have'nt seen the slots for them yet) worse tank than a teirii bc. to mine innocent eyes that looks like a gang role-filler. which would add flavor without removing balance mmmm. the only fault in that plan is it relies on the forethought of ccp....."
"hey all, i had an idea on a feature that could be used to boost low sec and give eve more of the criminal underground befitting it's personality. this will seem very biased towards low sec but it really does need a boost this big to become an interesting and more viable place to live so bear with me. i have also put in suggestions for balancing out the feature i am proposing to keep it from being too broken. keep in mind this is also a rough mental draft and i can understand why people would be against this. i welcome your criticism i also wouldn't be surprised if this idea was thought up in part somewhere else so i apologize if i am stealing someone's idea, but here goes.-pos raiding: the benefits- [warning: no tl;dr]* introduce a new ship for each race, possibly of a new class, or as i would prefer, a new electronic attack ship for each race. allow them to fit a specialized module that offlines a pos's shields and weapons for a short time, a very short time. this will allow pirates to make off with some nice goodies and give some more income potential to low sec pvp.* this will bring some attention and purpose to eas, but their extreme fragility will not make defense hopeless for pos owners.* if a new ship can't be made for this purpose, then a specialized module could be introduced that can only be fitted to electronic attack ships.*the possibility of raiding will force pos owners to actually defend their holdings, rather than putting up death stars in low/null and just gaining huge passive income from moon minerals.* raiding parties can head out to null and bring some action with them.* if ccp was feeling particularly evil, they could make this allowed in high sec, with the rules of aggression being similar to can flipping.* smaller 0.0 alliances would be able to actually deal some damage to the big ones through their infrastructure. pos raiding done right could be an integral part of 0.0 warfare.==to keep it balanced==* being a part of a pos raid will result in a loss of security status. this makes low sec living more attractive, as it is another avenue of pvp and profit for people not allowed in high sec. this will limit how widespread raiding is to those only willing to lose lots of sec (or people with none left to lose). * the time window that a pos is offlined will have to be very small in order to prevent abuse, say only a few minutes. this will also insure a degree of skill is required on the part of the raiders to make it worth the effort.* a pos can only be raided so often (perhaps once per day?), or a system can only have so many pos raids happen in a certain space of time, say 2 per hour, such a limit would be dictated by ccp.* certain skills must be trained in order to take part in, or initiate a pos raid.* when a pos's shields and weapons are shut down by a raiding party, the owning corporation/player will receive an in-game notification so that they may muster a defense. if you are half a universe away from your pos and unable to defend? tough ****, you shouldn't be reaping the benefits of something you can't protect. [don't anchor what you can't afford to lose ] this goes back to forcing people to actually pay attention to their holdings as previously stated.like i said this is only a rough mental draft, but one i have been thinking of for some time. and yes, i know that because i made a lengthy post that does not automatically qualify me as a game designer or that my feature will be adopted. at the very least i am throwing my hat into the ring and trying to foster discussion on fixing low sec.please post your comments or suggested changes to this feature."
"-reserved-"
"as i was forced to learn a while ago, rough drafts are best placed in the \"ideas & suggestions\" subforum to have their edges smoothed or sharpened. while your ideas have some merit, i do not yet see a proposal ready to be either supported or shot down in this place."
"yeah, no. being able to disable both shields and weapons means that even an actively defended pos could be raped, and that's counter both to the intent of this plan and to good game balance.a better plan might be to take a more limited approach... instead of being able to hack and totally disable a full-fledged deathstar for no reason and loot the entirety of it's contents, allowing a tech 2 frigate to instead sneak inside alone... if and only if the pos doesn't murder it while it sits immobile off the pos and runs an advanced hacking cycle (about as vulnerable as when dropping cyno seems about right), which means it'll need some nontrivial support, and will be tough to do to a defended pos (for example, a pos gunner could simply target and murder the hapless frigate, who would be unable to evade due to the hacking cycle). once the tech 2 hacking frigate is inside the pos, it can also hack into the pos's modules and cargo in relative peace, and thereby steal as much plunder as it can fit into it's frigate-sized hold before making an exit.you might also use the same ship to hack into an offlined pos (or perhaps other sorts of offlined sov gear) and thereby steal it completely, instead of having to spend long periods of time shooting the stuff down to no profit. unlike a quiet infiltration of a pos, that's something that would take some non-trivial period of time... either with the hacker sitting immobile off the structure in the same way described above, but for an hour or so (boring!) or by simply running a single hacking cycle to drop a hacking module... which would run for a 24-hour cycle and send a mail to the owner of the structure, who could easily shoot it down to stop the process... if they're actually active and able to defend it."
"im all for stealing goodies from pos's, as their are alot of pos's simply left active with guns on around where my corp roams (oh the moon goo, sweet sweet moon goo, slathering it up like jello on your skin)but honestly, its not that ahrd to get into a pos if you want to, simply open up the password screen, start at archon, and end with zomg (yes i once got into a pos with zomg as the password) and if those dont work you can always cycle through a, aa, ab, aba, abb, abc so on and so forth into even jumbers until you have the password. efort is effort, and one should eb rewarded for persistence, not given free goodies just because youd decided to raid some random pos for all the moon goo / corp assets.especially since this would make living in wormholes near impossible.tl;dr i applaud your proactiveness and creativity, but with how things are currently set up, it would lead to more problems than anything, eventually ending with it just no longer being profitable to even own a pos."
"yeah i was afraid of that. i was having a hard time thinking of ways to make it possible to defend against raids without shutting them down too much. i know i don't really have a method for that yet, and that's part of the reason i posted here. any suggestions are welcome thanks for the feedback so far!"
"+1 agree whole heartedly, time for your bs loki **** to die."
"most idiotic statement said yet that is the one thing driving solo/smallgang pvp away the most"
"bump this is something ccp should have done when the assist mods were released"
"bump"
"instead of shooting an idea down with a stupid reason such as yours why don't you try suggesting an alternative such asinstead of making the bonuses grid based make them based on range 250km seems to be a nice range to start at now endovior's complaint is resolved and we still accomplish the idea this thread is based around"
"i'm sorry, but could you re-post this in something approximating english? or hell, even american will do"
"since command links creately alter the dynamics of a fight, it is sound that they should be vulnerable i think making them grid-only is nice in principle, but i don't know how well it can be implemented fairly how will this hurt shield links? leaving grid and coming back again means you could lose a lot of shield hp how will this alter the role of orca's and rorquals and carriers, etc? how will this moving them to grid only will alter several aspects of this game, from plexing to mining to pvp i don't think this move should be made casually, as it will have significant impacts on too many areas of the game (not just fleet pvp)"
"not sure if its been mentioned but if you suspect an offgrid fleet gang link there is a way to defeat them scan the git down and attack him! its one of the reasons combat probes exist intel on the target and how it operates is a valuable tool"
"hi kaelie!wait a sec, i gave someone quarter? where?! when?! <U+FFFD><U+FFFD>.oh.the csm thing is more or less a joke since -- if this thread is any indication -- it would be highly unlikely that i could secure ~2000 votes. although i do think it would be really fun (read: arduous) and progressive (read: gridlocked). (too tired to make a republican primary joke with your invitation about moderation, maybe next time)argh, this has been a difficult week so i<U+FFFD>m just checking in -- i'll write replies soon(tm)!"
"i advocate this proposal. friendly bump."
"my opinion on this is that you can change your name in real life. ccp tries its best to make a scifi game as realistic as possible even though spaceship game. besides, i don't understand why ccp won't do it. its another way to make money."
"1.0"
"as long as it only affects trial accounts as suggested.+1"
"agree. but maybe also for paid accounts after 2 years of inactivity.send them 3 mails, free up the name if there is no reaction / objection coming from them. i even expect most of those email addresses to be invalid ;)check the moderated 10000 papercuts evelopedia page!"
"+1this should be moved to the assembly hall as a genuine proposal."
"sounds like a good idea to me, i wanna be elvis....... or maybe jim....... probably elvis"
"i know lots of people who have gone for two to three years and come back. trials only."
"with my suggestion they just needed to reply / click, \"i am still interested, please dont release my name\", then they will stay untouched.check the moderated 10000 papercuts evelopedia page!"
"how can you tell exactly, that the character has been inactive for the last 10 years?and how can you tell it is a trial account?"
"+1 providing it's never-paid trials only. (i realise the op said this, but some people *cough* el alasar *cough* have suggested taking out inactive paid accounts too. this should not happen.)i've never personally had an issue with name conflicts, but this"
"i like this payout system! my question to the new system is who can hunt? of course we don't have a specific class, \"bounty hunter,\" but shouldn't there be a qualification, i.e. faction standing or sec status to be able to freely engage a bounty that is in high sec? i've been partial to the idea of establishing a \"kill\" contract, like a mini war if you will for a limited time. you fail to eliminate the target within a specific time it goes back up to a bounty pool that only qualified bounty hunters can obtain. of course this is all theory crafting but something along these lines would help establish a much wanted proffession."
"what rewards? :p i can't think of a single advantage a -5 pilot has over a +5 pilot, except the cool flashy name and a higher likelihood of having an interesting space-life.i missed the insurance loophole when i first posted my idea, because honestly i was ignorant of the retardedly high levels that pend pays out. i remembered insurance being less worthwhile, and i didn't remember default insurance; i seem to remember losing a ship and pend saying, \"here's a free ibis and a trit, htfu.\" that was probably in 2004 or so; i just never paid attention after that.but if the purpose of insurance is to encourage hilarious explosions, i can't see why the mechanic shouldn't apply to wensley (if he's still poor) in his little rifters as well as new bee who loses his first-ever 75mm-fitted bantam to guristas arrogators.i can maybe see a system to allow for direct negotiation between the target and the bounty funder for the bounty to be removed (at a service charge), but to keep it simple and interesting, i would say that this is a matter of negotiation between the pilots. as in, \"can you take this bounty off my head?\" \"sure, if you give me double the bounty amount in isk right now.\" \"uh, okay.\" whether or not the bounty is lifted is purely up to the bounty funder, opening exciting new scamming opportunities. i would not ever propose that bounties be removed in any other way except through target killing, thus encouraging pewpew. okay. but how many times would i have to pod you to win the bet? i'm not advocating for any other changes to things like hisec kill rights, etc. if you want to go after a bounty, declare war, suicide gank, or catch the target in low/null. i'd rather keep the bounty proposal here as simple as possible so that it can be feasibly implemented with a minimum of goofy side-effects to exploit. once that's done, and if bounty hunting becomes popular as an activity, maybe further refinements can be proposed."
"one thing that just occurred to me: have you considered the ramification this poses for newer, relatively poor players that might get griefed with a huge bounty just for lulz? how badly might that impact on them and their prospects of going about their business or moving out to low or null sec eventually, and how could they rid their toon of the huge target sign they'd carry around that way?"
"currently i believe bountying a pilot requires that the pilot have -1.0 or lower security. if, in the scenario you describe, new bee goes around pissing people off and winding up with -1.0 security simultaneously, i don't see a problem with someone shoving a huge bounty on him. if that's a problem for him, he can stay in hisec where it's less likely that he will be killed by bounty hunters, until he winds up at -5.0 security status, at which point he knows what he's getting into, unless he's a complete idiot. in either case, i don't see the problem."
"and this is one of the many reasons you would want to tie this to killrights or at least criminality somehow. and then maybe you could limit the bounty to some isk amount based on the hull lost in the criminal action (limit it to 3x the hull cost or something reasonable).i wasn't proposing that the bounty hunters be allowed to pursue targets in high-sec, though i think that's a logical step. rather, i was suggesting a mechanic to prevent abuse."
"under such a limitation how would someone's rich friend bounty someone for him?how would you bounty someone for corp theft, scams, pos destruction or other indirect asshattery?"
"there's nothing wrong with this idea - however, someone with 700+ items in their hangar should know how to use the search bar at the top right-hand corner of the item window, shouldn't they? it's pretty easy, and faster than scrolling no matter how much you have in your hangar..."
"1.0"
"i don't care about workarounds, i want improved or at least restored game functionality. also:shoo, troll."
"when a wreck is destroyed the current model for a sub-capital ship is dull and has almost no resemblance to the ship it was before it was destroyed.my proposal is to create a destroyed ship model for every kind of ship (even capsules) and make the wreck (not the overview icon) stay in space for a long duration even after it is salvaged. if you stumbled upon a grid where a battle took place you should be able to see the wrecks and have a small idea of what actually happened there. this would only work on player ships to avoid accumulated mission wrecks lagging up a system. after a wreck expired it would break apart (maybe because of a reactor instability or w/e) explode a little and vanish instead of just fading away for no reason.or, when a player ship is destroyed it would create two wrecks, one default scrap wreck that you can salvage and one wreck that keeps moving in the direction it was and at the velocity it was when it was destroyed then after ten or 15 seconds it would explode a little and break apart.imo the ship exploding animation is great but the aftermath when the explosion fades away is very very anticlimactic. imagine the ship exploding then it keeps moving (on fire with it's frames showing) and breaks apart after exploding a little again and only then the real wreck (the default scrap wreck) is created.pods would still be ejected on the first explosion."
"this falls under the category of \"much requested feature that most likely has feasibility issues.\"while it'd be nice eye-candy (that i do support because, well, who doesn't like eye-candy?) i do question whether this would make the servers and/or our computers hiccup and die when trying to id and render dozens of ships that may or may not be different from one another."
"supported... but low priority. it'd be nice, but it's not important... and it's especially not important if it'd cause non-trivial lag."
"all good and well...and i personally would like this.but when you arrive on to a 1000 man wreck battlefield and you try to render each-and-every wreck....life gets a little nasty for the computer.do-able? likely.will it happen? doubtful.+1 regardless.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"well, if it can render the ships and the drones during combat, it can render the wrecks. and the wrecks would be static objects with no further traffic relating to them; once you've loaded the grid, the wrecks are there until downtime.it would probably be a good idea to have selective code so that if enough ships arrived on grid the wrecks would be hidden to prevent overloading the local client, but i don't really see it as a server issue."
"not supported unless it can be done algorithmically without any significant demands being placed on the art department."
"i actually made a topic at the old forums a while ago. supported :) but it's true it's not as important as other things and that needs to be done in an easy way, for modellers and perfomance."
"i love the idea of aoe explosions. the bigger the structure/ship the farther away you'd better be. having said that, an explosion in null is the same as an explosion in the magical fairy land of empire, so .. not supported."
"the problem with not restricting the aoe explosions in empire is that 10 guys with the proper ships and timing could use it to kill a lot of people on the jita undock. that would bring a new idiotic gank mechanic that really doesn't need to be there."
"and the problem with limiting aoe explosions in empire is that it would create an imbalance. high security space is just that \"high security,\" meaning it is heavily patrolled by faction police, and concord will respond to criminal actions and deal with it in short order. it is not \"absolute security,\" nor is it meant to be. new eden isn't a place that is meant to hold your hand. it is cold, ruthless, and ever-changing. adapt or die.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"i like explosion idea.if someone wants to somehow blow up a tonne of ships in hs for some ganking purpose.would be cool if you got a killmail on a ship only cause ur ship blew up and laid the final blow on the ship pew pewing you.+1if hs is the only reason not to put this in - stop pampering everyone in eve and let hs have this quirk."
"+1for those interested in facilitating an explanation within the lore:in this game we have lasers, ships that can cloak, cyno's, and wormhole travel to say the least. if all of that is technically possible in the game, how farfetched would it be to have a"
"lol...yay for eve physicists!"
"hey let's nerf close range weaponry and small ships to cut down on blobs guys. hey hey hey, it's a good idea, hey.in truth you can tell when one side is horribly outnumbered when they end up doing a lot more exploding than the blob. also the smaller group will have more ships exploding right when they all warp in before they have time to spread out. now not only are you outnumbered and exploding faster than the other guys, you're also taking damage from being outnumbered and exploding. heh.oh, also also it'll end up doing things like blowing up dictor bubbles paradoxically making a rout less lethal by nerfing the main method of tackling dudes. also also also they'll end up blowing up bombs, making an already tricky anti-blob weapon even more difficult to use effectively."
"and why, exactly, would this not be standard in low and nullsec? why wouldn't it be default in npc controlled stations and an option in player controlled ones? if you want ship explosions, have them everywhere, or have them nowhere.as for the smartbomb thing, not being able to activate a module is not the same as containing a nuclear reactor going boom."
"because just like concord isn't interested in protecting you in lowsec and nullsec they aren't interested in investing time and money for station and gate upgrades.again i will state that i am not personally opposed to the explosions damaging players in highsec but there is the obvious problem of exploiting this kind of mechanic to the benefit of pirates and gankers. most freaked out about it on the old thread so this was the solution to still allow the mechanic change without changing life in highsec for the bears."
"i<U+FFFD>m sure most people would agree that the corporate roles system is pretty terrible, and in need of a drastic overall. however, i<U+FFFD>m also sure that most of us realise a complete overall is a significant undertaking, and isn<U+FFFD>t going to happen anytime soon. however, would it not be possible to look at two or three of the most serious issues separately? would solving them not make the wait for a complete overall of the roles and title system much more palatable?for myself and many others, the most serious by far is cancelling corporate science and industry jobs. it<U+FFFD>s currently not possible to give a player access to start corporate science and industry jobs without also giving them the ability to cancel any and all existing jobs. this really makes absolutely no sense what so ever. i know a lot of people take the view that this should be a trust issue, and that corporations should be more careful with recruitment and who they hand out roles to. i don<U+FFFD>t accept this argument. for even a medium sized corporation with industrial interests, it<U+FFFD>s very easy to get a science and industry jobs list billions, if not tens of billions of isk. where is the risk vs. reward argument for giving a player access to that, just because they want to copy a kestrel bpo?if people do stupid things in eve, they should (and quite often are punished). however, you also need to give people the tools and ability to be able to do things sensibly, and avoid problems. right now, the only option for such players and corporations with industrial interests is to just not hand out roles, not recruit industrial minded players, or make use of alts and alt corps to manage large industrial projects. many of these are very much counter to the whole mmo experience.so, i have a simple proposal. change the role system so that only directors have the ability to cancel other player<U+FFFD>s corporate science and industry jobs. this should be a relatively simple solution to implement, and would solve the issue until a more complete overhaul of the roles system comes into place."
"why can't someone trusted run those kestrel copies?"
"because \"someone trusted\" already has their copy slots filled with copying titan bpos?"
"you have a shortage of people in your corp you trust not to be asshats? if you are only trusting 5 people, you have a problem, if your only talking about noobs who haven't proven trustworthy, you should have plenty who can have the relatively insignificant roles.especially if you keep the bpos somewhere else and remotely research/copy them <.<"
"maybe trusted players are busy with their own personal jobs, or corp jobs.maybe newer players have s&i slots free that they want to use.maybe newer players want to feel like they are helping and contributing to the corporation.maybe because it adds a lot of extra work and hassle for everyone involved <U+FFFD> for example, max single run copies for invention on many bpo<U+FFFD>s is in days, not weeks.more so than anything else, why should they have to? not sure you quite get the problem. it really doesn<U+FFFD>t have anything to do with hangers. if someone can start a corp s&i job, regardless of the type of job, where the job is running or where the job was started from, then they can cancel any and all other corporate s&i jobs."
"trust? in this game?your kidding right? *troll*but yes....anything...literally anything to improve the fail that is corporate roles.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"please yes. this would be a step in the right direction. of course there would need to be many, many more steps on that path."
"why would anyone trust a director more than an ordinary corp member?it was a director that singlehandly dissolved bob and lost years of work that the \"untrustworthy\" corp members worked so hard for."
"to me at least the whole concept of security status should be dynamic. the rp angle is that higher security space has more concord attention and lower has less, matched up with what is supposed to be a sliding scale of risk/reward. it seems reasonable to me that players should have some way to impact this on some level as their actions would also have an rp impact on the overall security of said space. it seems like it would be pretty cool that either through activities the players do, or activities that rp storyline causes would cause the focus and attention of concord to shift around a bit. i'm not sure how easy of a sell this would be to ccp since it sounds fairly time/effort intensive but i like the concept."
"i would like this a lot, like urban decay/renewal. but what happens to the chars who resub and find themselves in a security shift high-low? if you're a flashy red and you log on and your former pipe system is now hisec, do you just get destroyed on the undock? less of a problem: people who have a hisec pos who are suddenly in low. (less of a problem because they just wind up taking them down or losing them, i suppose.) or a returning player who, say, has all his crap in motsu and comes back to find out it will take him 4 jumps to get himself (and all his crap) to hisec.would a 0.1 system be switchable to npc null, or vice-versa? or even more crazy, would a null alliance be able to build an empire island in the middle of their sovereign space? (why they would want to is anyone's guess, though it might be funny to do it to someone else's sovereign space...)i could see changing security levels in systems without bridging between high/low/null as a dynamic system and a way to spread out mission-runner congestion without just moving the agents around in a patch. 6 gazillion navy missions run in motsu implies a higher active population of citizens (implied npc citizens), which can support/require more concord, which moves the security status up after a very long time, which makes the agents less profitable, which encourages people to move. you may wind up with some goofy system security jumps like this though (going from 0.8 to 0.4 for instance), making the security map less sensible."
"on a serious note, dunno if its been mentioned, but docking games... they need fixing."
"hmmmm....in no particular order:1) suicide-ganking should never, under any possible circumstances, be removed. ever! but insurance payouts for concord'okken ship-loss should be--it's just stupid, and this game needs the isk-sink. (not every hulk that runs afoul of the ole' reliable arty-pest is going to be fitted with a pithi a-tybe ssb, after all, and how often will it drop even if they are? potential real rewards, but also real risk.)1a) ninja-salvaging should likewise never be removed, or nerfed anymore...it's been nerfed enough as it is, since apocrypha, and should remain a viable career-path.2) wardec--neutral rr is flagged as war-target, and gets gate- and docking-aggro timer. neutral swap-orca, same deal.3) bounty-hunting: lots of good ideas here and elsewhere, so i needn't repeat them, except to re-iterate that the current system is a complete waste of server- and client-side resources. not just the mechanic needs re-inventing, but as stated repeatedly elsewhere, it needs to be made a viable career-path, as well.4) allow covert-cynos and covert-cyno bridging in hisec! yes...yes!! this will add a whole new dimension to hisec warfare, ninja-looting, and if the gankers have a lot of money to burn, suicide-ganking, too. subject to the following limitation: if you light a covert cyno on the grid of a gate or station, then you draw gate-gun/station-gun aggro, and if in 0.8+, then also faction-police aggro (force-recons won't be tanking that kind of beating for too long, so again, risk vs. reward on a tactical level).5) smuggling: the chairwoman of the last csm, mynxee, had a great idea for networks of \"smuggler stargates.\" i say let these run throughout hisec, losec, and nullsec, and let the \"smuggling\" skill offer a chance of finding out that one (or more) exist in the constellation you're in. concord and the npc police of course, don't know about them, and they have to be probed down, and you know which constellation that particular run goes to, but no more--ie, you don't know how many gates on the way, or exactly which system they go to, just which constellation. at the end-point system, there is a probe-able wormhole (known-space to known-space only) that may take you to a trade-hub...or it may drop you right into the waiting arms of an npc customs fleet. or, it may drop you right in the middle of deep-sov null 7) pve: this needs to be much more focussed towards pvp-style fits and tactics--instead of a mob of umpty-dozen stupid red crosses, you just fight a few, but they all omni- and/or buffer tank, use neuting, pointing, and racial ewar, sleeper/incursion ai, and you have to point/web/neut the completion-trigger to keep it from warping off. but not before killing/jamming/damping/otherwise \"rendering powerless\" his two little rr buddies. should breed a harder specimen of carebear, i think 8) mining--goes without saying, but needs to much more interesting/dynamic, and much less bottable.that's all for now, i'm nodding off at the keyboard...and, yes: this thread--not sure if meta-troll/scam, but whatever..."
"currently you can do your own thing low sec. and since not all low sec systems are contested in fw even with these changes you would still have a great degree of independence in the right systems.i feel these ideas for imporving low sec do provide alot for pve'r rp'rs to claim bunkers its like running a mission except you might get jumped by opposing factions(and honestly how is that different from running a plex or anom in null or low sec). and theres the expansion of gas harvesting. most of the yar bears in the game are geared toward that, 'yarring'. most pirate corps dont have the industrial wing to handle gas harvesting and booster manufacturing. this could be a niche for industrials either joining pirate or other faction militias. or simply working via contract for these entities to harvest gas sites and manufacture boosters for them.i try'ed to put alot of thought into this and how it could reach out and touch all the different facets of eve, if your an indy player or pve'r and these changes make you feel left out in low sec my apologies i did my best to see that these changes would throw you a bone as well."
"\"shields up, red alert!\""
"i can give a number of reasons why this is just a terribad idea:- the amount of input would be ridiculous- pronunciation of systems and certain caldari stations would **** people up and make it hard to navigate- mining would be a ****ing nightmare- combat (considering all the tactical/logistical telemetry you'd be feeding the game) would have more lag than it does now- being able to get the system to respond to speech considering all the various accents would be a pain in the ***- this would take away from the work being done on fis and wisi am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"there are a lot of commands that simply wouldn't make sense to issue via voice. while the op might want to tug his shirt a bit, gesture vaguely at the screen and say \"engage\", the nature of eve doesn't suit that well. in a system with more than a dozen stations and half a dozen stargates, nine planets averaging six moons each, that's a lot of celestials for the system to distinguish between based on voice commands. then there's choosing the proper target when you undock from jita and see an enemy amidst the dozens of neutrals. scanning probes, d-scan, and other such tools would simply be impossible.even if i wouldn't feel silly speaking orders every few seconds, even if i didn't want to keep my mic and audio free for teamspeak, such a system would be very limited in application and significantly slower to use than clicking."
"an another negative point.in the time you tell your ship to get say 5 jumps and do whatever it is your going to do.i'll have time to take a shower and eat my meal.ok maybe not.fact is keystrokes and mouse clicks are ultimately and always well be ever faster than speaking commands.the problem is not so much the ability to do so...its the time and compliexity of those commands.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"is this thing on?dual pane idea: click!"
"i have resubbed this account just so i can make this post.k.com provides freedom, rep circlejerks, and the right to post for thousands of posters who would otherwise have no place to call home. free this man's name and livelihood from the shackles of eve-o's forum word filter."
"from the desk of immasplodeyou -\"immasplodeyou of dreddit says free kugutsumen and thinks kbrdhero is awesome\""
"free kugu, we are the 99%, i'a i'a cthulhu ftaaaghn i'a dagon i'a hydra etc"
"where do i get my free sushi?"
"i would like to see a system put in place that keeps people from avoiding war decs. my main idea, is that once an alliance war dec, corps are not allowed to leave until the war dec it over, people can quit he corp,but he corp itself is forced to remain within the alliance. or making it 48hrs to leave an alliance with a notification being sent to the aggressing corp/alliance, so that the voting period can be started on the corp that is leaving the alliance hat you are after."
"no. wardeccing already vastly favors the greifers, they don't need more ways to attack people. there are already a few threads about this, no need to make another."
"put awox corp into aliance.wardec aliance with alt corp.awox corp can't be kicked. awoxers rejoice."
"considering ccp set a precedent concerning war-dec evasion.this proposal is dead from the start.the numbers of people who protest war-dec's outnumber the numbers of people who are agianst war-dec evasion.i'm for this proopsal...but if ccp says no....the answer is no.....in this case yes to evasion of war-decs.+1 regardless.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"it's simpler than that: attach wardecs to entities so that if you wardec a corp and they leave the alliance, the wardec stays on them. it would work something like this:- if you wardec an alliance, the war remains active so long as you pay the bill and the alliance exists. corporations can drop membership as normal to escape the war if they feel the alliance leadership is not handling the war properly. likewise, members of corporations at war should be able to leave the corp at will.- if you wardec a corporation and they join an alliance, the war extends to the alliance but remains attached to the corp. this way if that corp leaves the alliance later, the alliance isn't stuck with the war.- you should be able to wardec a specific corporation that is a member of an alliance (but pay alliance dec fees) so that if that corp drops, you are still able to conduct war against it. this would prevent pos corps in alliance that drop as soon as a war starts in order to protect their holdings. this way, dropping the alliance would mean that alliance members could not defend the corp.i have no objection to being able to leave an organization if you don't want to fight the war it's in. what i do object to is the ability to use game mechanics to shrug off wars that other players paid for."
"this made me laugh. come back when wardecs cost more than chump change."
"i'd like to apologize to the entire community for this thread. i thought i recognized roldanus' name, and sure enough, he's one of the people who i blew up for the crime of mining ice in the interdiction zone. i don't apologize for killing a criminal such as roldanus; i apologize for him being inspired to post this thread."
"looks like you at least got them to try tanking their ships... how many volleys that take?"
"interesting concept you have of being a criminal.apologized. not trying to be popular among goons, so thanks for free publicity.cheers."
"goonswarm.not out to ruin the game........... just out to ruin your game."
"so far im happy to see that this has triggered the right discussions.a game of these characteristics oftenly give you the possibility to see how human behavior works. if you give someone the power, you will truly understand how people are. so far fewer chose to be good and a lot to be bad.i love pvp but none of you can tell us how to play the game or even to look for another one. eve has its rules and i play it chosing to be the good guys. i pay for my game time and want to make this game fun for everyone, not planning to abuse or destroy anybodys game but yes to improve it. including you guys.good luck with your endeavours.rolds"
"since the cq is nearly useless at the moment, and having two players in the same room is currently impossible, why not add a console for gambling in the room? it could start with maybe one kind of card game (made up by ccp or a variation of an existing one) and you could wager isk on games. if the technology is available at the moment, it'd be cool to be able to play against people you invite to games while placing bets down, which would allow some player interaction from your room without actually seeing another player just yet.just a thought, if you have any ideas of your own for this\criticism please share."
"they already stated in dev blogs and at the last fanfest that gambling and mini game tables are already slated for wis...but not in cq. i doubt having them implement it into cq would be a wise way to expend resources when they might be better off just finishing wis."
"oh wow. i didn't hear a word about that. thanks for letting me know!"
"we will unfortunately have to wait until ccp picks up and works on wis some more though. focus right now is fis as it should be until the masses are appeased. unfortunately the masses will never be appeased...the moment ccp says anything about spending even a millisecond on wis people will freak and try to chase them with torches and pitchforks until they go back to fis."
"keep in mind that there are already a few third-party sites that provide the opportunity to gamble for isk. somer.blink and eoh both come to mind, and i'm sure there are more. it seems a bit of a waste of time for devs to implement a system for gambling when players have already found ways to do so. eve is a sandbox game, ccp loves it when players step up and create services themselves, why would they spend time working on a way to remove a sandbox element of the game by making their own system and driving third-party gambling out of business? the only way i could see ccp stepping in and making their own gambling is if it dealt with aur, which is tied to plex and their cash flow (depending on how it was set up, it might give a whole new meaning to 'losing the shirt off your back', lol)."
"unless you contract pl (and they will probably just make it capital online), then its not very probable that self destruct is issue to you - as only ships in game that can get use of this is capitals as is not hard to kill sub-capital with too minute"
"gotta say, in war we don't measure our wins by isk ratio, but by who keeps coming for fights.not like anyone is real low on isk"
"killmails used as penis extensions are bad yes, however killmails used to track how good corps are, are corps worth joining, ranking in alliance and to see wether a corp is just a bunch of idiots who need to gtfo of an alliance, well thats the purpose of killmails.i think the people who want the total removal of kms may be the ones worried about their pvp ability."
"logi pilots?besides, if all you are worried about is looking good, join a pos kill fleet and pad the hell outta your kb."
"it isnt about looking good, its about being able to see what a corp or pilot does. i find the killboard absolutely essential to see who stays and who goes in my corp, but its easy for me as we are a pvp corp, so if i see a pilot who hasnt had a single kill for 3 months (and i know who flies logistics alot) then i know he needs to go.killboards may not be a perfect measure of a corporation, but how else do you measure them? and it isnt the actual stats people tend to look at its the actual type of fights, type of fleets etc that people look at, well i do anyway. so padding with pos mods isnt any way to hide real stats.measuring a corps use of logistics is always going to be hard, there is no way out of that that i can see, apart from to say in my corp i know who flies logi all the time."
"not saying there is a better method, at the moment. just a pet peeve of mine that certain support roles that can make the difference between wins and losses get shortchanged a bit on things like this(ever since i failed to get my first km because i was repping someone)if killmails went, then something new would have to replace them. probably a score based on amount of damage you do/rep, which would have its own type of stupid.killmails are a flawed mechanic, and should not be supported. but they can't go without a suitable replacement."
"exactly, all i need is a way to measure how effective my pilots are, not to mention potential recruits. even if the killmails were replaced with a single fleet battle mail for every engagement, so you see who was on each side, what was total loss etc for each side. this would be better than actual individual mails, you could see how many fleets a pilot participated in rather than how many killmails they are on.the total kills/losses could still be massed into an effective metric for corp stats."
"ok, i am going to do something i rarely do and backpedal just a little bit.from a pvp corporation and mercenary standpoint i can see how kill mails are an important metric for:a) proving you've completed a contract andb) rooting out the slackers in your corporation.though i do pvp when i am in the mood, i admit i am primarily an industrialist, and like most people i have blinders on about my playstyle.that said, how about a compromise position. keep the self destruct as it is, but send out a kill mail with no fitting information in it. the kill mail can go out to the pilot who did the most damage, with the final blow listed as the self destruct.that maintains the intel denying purpose of a self destruct while still allowing the pvp corp/mercs to continue to accurately measure a and b above.yes, it will mean your isk efficiency only reflects the hull - that's the compromise. the pilot who self-destructed still gets the benefit of denying loot and intelligence to the enemy. in return, the enemy gets a way to prove they were responsible for the loss of that ship."
"if i could just get rid of this annoying bra......"
"chocolate dancing boobs!!it's okdon't consider chocolate as a substitute of sex, consider it as a different pleasure... ...but that won't prevent you from being a pervert"
"shield links already have a problem here but it's a problem with gang bonuses in general and not simply links fleets are most commonly mobile, and any time you jump through a gate you lose any extra shield hp the leadership bonuses/links grant when they go inactive and activate again on the other side i think it should be addressed, but i also think it's secondary to this discussion also, there are a lot of people who don't think it should be changed because of the additional benefits of a larger number of shield hp (passive recharge) i agree that we need to consider all the relevant casesi don't believe that pve or mining should be any different than pvp in this regard if you want the benefits of links, you expose your link ship to the risks associated with the activity there should not be major differences in the way pvp and pve workgang bonuses represent command and control improving the abilities of their fleet if the fleet is not anywhere near the command and control, it shouldn't benefit"
"this ^^^the t3 is a better booster than the commandship should be reverse"
"you do realize that in modern warfare command and control is normally not even on the same continent, much less actually at the fight modern communications systems, satellites, and computers make it unnecessary to risk your cnc staff at the front lines all you need on the front are guys to receive and carry out the orders surprisingly that's very much how fleet bonuses in eve workthat aside, i agree they should still be vulnerable, so how about we simply do not allow them to be effective from inside a pos forcefield in the same way carriers have to expose themselves to provide fighter support by exiting the pos forcefield, gang link ships will have to be positioned outside those shieldsthis means they can be scanned down, and popped by an incoming attack force and if they play docking games or bubble games, the effect is the same, the fleet loses those bonuses, eliminating the force multiplier of the ship iin questionedit:i also agree t3s should not be better command ships than command ships maybe on par, if completely fit for it, but not better"
"modern-day command and control is not harmonizing your shields, optimizing your armor repair modules, boosting the strength of your electronic warfare, and otherwise increasing the direct effectiveness of weapons and defenses modern-day command and control is making troop movement decisions and making general strategy you are comparing command staff in a far off bunker (mittens coming up with strategy for his minions) with platoon and squad leaders on the front lines (the fleet commander, his wing and squad leaders and his boosters) if platoon and squad leaders were not on the front lines with the troops they command they would not be effectivebut that's all just a bunch of worthless comparisonswhat you say about being vulnerable is true; if we force the boosters to be outside of pos shields they are vulnerable if you bring a prober and can get your fleet off the gate to go find them but that's just incentive to bring more pilots gang links are indeed vulnerable if your fleet is larger that the fleet you are jumping into and you are able to evade them long enough to find the gang link ship and threaten it -- but if you can do all that you were probably going to win anyway i think this is what people normally call blob incentive"
"the whole thread is blob incentiveor did you think people would keep bringing tiny little fleets with their now on grid command ships?"
"actually i do i fly in small gangs all the time if the fleet is too small to support a combat effective command ship on grid with us, then we don't bring one and make do without the links if the fleet is of sufficient size then we bring a command ship sufficient falls somewhere around 8 to 10 dependent upon the fleet composition that's what eve is all about, taking risks and either losing in a blaze of glory or reaping the rewards the risk now for off-grid gang links is so minimal compared to the benefits that it is unbalancing if somebody can do it practically afk or on a third instance of eve, it shouldn't have that much influence over a fight"
"bump"
"on one hand i think, \"serves you right for being an idiot and choosing a ridiculas name, trial period or not,\" but of course we all have our moments. the penalty for such a moment should be monetary like himlar states. a one time name change should be allowed with a permanent aka of the old name... linked with searches, etc. and no to any additional name changes with a character transfer/sale... it would be a selling feature if u hadn't utilized the name change yet.end of line."
"like the essentials, and most of the debated points, except for those above- as long as you can search for the prev character and bring up the new one... some of these points are redundant, but that would need to be an essential feature- sec/standing/sp hit - dont see any need provided people pay. this is an administrative task for ccp, so i think it's unreasonable to expect this for free. character transfers are 2 plex i think? i'd be happy with 2-4 plex for this, moderately extortionate to reduce time wasters. there should (imo) be a fee, and it should either be eye poppingly high or limited to once per year (w/e).- char tfrs - as long as they are searchable, why shouldnt the new owner be able to change the name- real need afaik is already addressed by ccp (ie spelling errors), but if people want to change one idiotic name to another idiotic one... who cares? it's their choice, and hopefully their money they are spending so.. pfft not our call to make.- one time only is unfair on subsequent players- same letter... mmm mebe, but we dont know what will happen in future with fleet mechanisms, so a massive shift from a-c names to x-z names might bite ppl later on. if there's a large enough fee in place, and ccp actually put a warning \"if you're doing this because of fleet mechanics, bear in mind we may change things later (muhahah)\" really, people cant winge. i could see the flipside of this being implemented that fcs reverse target calling anyway and go z-a which would be pretty amusing.- sec rating... nah. not all -sec ppl have been out griefing. there's some sort of moral judgement tied into that, which shouldn't be relevant in this.good luck with this proposal, i hope it passes in some form"
"all my eve mail for my alt account goes to my spam address. i've had it for four years and i've never checked it.if you've paid money, you've expressed your interest. end of story."
"+1 from me as well delete all inactive trial accounts over a year old."
"i agree, on a rolling basis every trial account over 1 year old and never converted should be wiped out totally.it would just take some time and careful scripting to do, but ccp is capable, as long as no one named themselves boot.inialways ... never ... forget to check your references. peace out zulu! hope you land well!"
"while i would say that most people moaning about \"names being already taken\" usually try to choose some inane moniker like \"xxxgankerxxx\" or trying to have a ripoff from some movie, book or whereever i'd support the idea of cleaning up the account database. trial accounts only.though i think that would never happen as that would drastically reduce the number of accounts eve online can claim to have."
"moved from features and ideas."
"give him the money.contract with a mercenary group.if there is a security status limitation you already have this problem. what if the corp thief, scammer or pos killer doesn't have a negative security status? just because you don't like the pilot doesn't mean concord has anything against the pilot."
"perhaps, but you can merc-contract anyway for any reason. merc contract is very different from bountying as proposed here:1) hiring mercs is outside the economic purview of an average person in most cases; contributing something to a bounty escrow is not2) hiring mercs is usually time-limited (though this can vary with the contract, but wardecs cost money even if the target is logged off or staying in a station); a bounty stays until things explode3) hiring mercs can be a scam in itself; possible, but harder, to scam an npc escrow4) hiring mercs is more effective as a measure against a corporation, not a single pilot4) a bounty is a kick me sign that everyone can see, not just a deccing merc corporationas far as security status, yes. the bounty system isn't a universal \"i don't like you\" system. however, there are many circumstances where limiting the isk placed into a bounty is, well, limiting. if a flashy blows up my shuttle and i'm mad enough to drop 1b into an escrow, i think that's okay, even if it's probably stupid for me to do so. if a few flashies catch some cheap ospreys and as a result a pos doesn't get repaired and goes down, i don't see why the corp should be prevented from placing an apparently ridiculous bounty on the guys who unknowingly intercepted their logistics. hell, if a rich person places giant bounties on every -5.0 and lower in lowsec and starts a feeding frenzy, that's perfectly legitimate as well, and may get people into lowsec for once. all are legitimate pursuits, i think.but this is derailing a bit. small steps."
"i agree that this is a problem. but there are a few fundamental decisions you have to make about your kick-me sign.how do you want to restrict application of the kick-me sign?i think in general you want to restrict the kick-me sign to players that have done a bad thing. but you have to define bad thing. if you define bad thing in terms of actions that can't be measured by the software then you can't restrict with the software anymore. at this point, the only bad thing we can detect with software is exploding someone's spaceship. you can see that this is how bounties are restricted now to people with negative security status; but the set of people who do bad things aren't restricted to that set.do you want to restrict the size of the kick-me sign and the stickiness of the tape that binds it, and if so, how do you want to do it?i posit that you do want to restrict the duration/size because we are making the kick-me sign have actual meaning. this has got to be tied to the size/duration of the bad thing. because the only bad thing we can detect is exploding someone's spaceship, logically it's the only thing we can measure. since the kick-me sign is supposed to be incentive to take away the spaceship of the person that did a bad thing i don't see a reason not to link them directly. the current system is so restrictive that if a positive security status player pods you out of your high-grade snakes you wouldn't be able to place a bounty on him.i think this is especially true if it's going to impose any other kind of penalty (aside from the kick-me sign) such as reducing or removing insurance payouts.which is worse, allowing a bounty for any reason but only on a negative security status player or allowing a bounty only for known criminal actions regardless of security status?i like the way taurean eltanin discusses this issue by making a distinction between bounty hunters in star wars who are generally bad people working for other bad people versus bounty hunters who are good guys (he uses judge dredd as an example, but i know nothing of him). the model for star wars is all about mercenaries -- you hire somebody you know will take care of business for you and you pay them when you are satisfied. there's no law involved and you don't find jobs by sitting down at your computer and scanning the galactic bounty hunter network. at the end of the day, i'm okay with a small-ish change here -- something that would make bounties worthwhile without the bells and whistles i'm suggesting -- and your original proposal fits that bill. but i think we should at least discuss the additional ideas, rules and issues because in my optimistic world i believe ccp (or their representative) will take the kernel of this idea and make it their own by pulling in interesting bits rather than plugging in exactly what any of us said individually. i think bounty hunting has the potential to be great even if it's not exactly what i want it to be.i write too much."
"1. who's going to pay for the bounty? because if i want to put a bounty on x's head, i can't do it depending on if he's going to fly a shuttle or a titan when he decides to get killed.and obviously concord isn't going to pay it since are the players who decide who has a bounty on his head.2. adding insurances to the bounty? do you really think anyone is going to pay for an insurance that, if they get destroyed, they arent going to recive back?for me the only posibility is a randomized bounty mission system where you recive a target base on a similar sp range (maybe region too), and you can only reject a mission once per week. you also cant be assigned targets within your own alliance. that should solve it."
"bounties only apply up to the amount the vengeful player originally entered. as soon as that is covered, things continue as before the bounty was set. bounty hunters will not get a higher bounty just because they destroyed stuff that was worth a lot more than the bounty.nobody is, unless they want to get rid of the bounty sooner. but that's part of the point, isn't it?"
"i can see how that makes sense for the case i specified. but i'm not sure i like it. there should be a way to place a bounty on anyone who crossed you. maybe limit bounties to the net worth of the bountied (is that even a word?) player's assets? or possibly, to not reveal actual net worth that way, to the average net worth of characters of the target toon's age. i'm sure the good doctor has a curve for just that lying about somewhere."
"as paritybit pointed out, there's currently no heuristic for software to track many activities that **** people off, including scamming/being a jerk in local/corp theft. i think for the more abstract cases, counter-pissing-off or mercs are still viable, as is just ignoring the person. i'm not really looking at bounties as a catch-all for all behavioral problems in the game; i just want to propose a relatively simple mathematical solution to a long-broken system.regarding character age/assets: i unsubbed for a long time (twice), and so i don't have the sp or isk/assets you might expect based merely on toon age. some other characters are disproportionately rich/poor, for whatever reason, and you can always hide assets on a second account if you want."
"that's why i suggested that limit - it's not perfect (heck, this toon is worth ~5000isk plus a noobship at a few years of age! ;) ), but it would restrict abuse of bounties to grief new players with a simple mechanic. i believe -1.0 sec is just too limiting and would reduce a bounty hunter's choice of targets significantly."
"agreed. it's a shiny thing, there are other things they could be doing.that said, it could be made policy that from here on out, every new ship model gets a wreck model to go with it. that way in the course of updating and replacing aging content, this could become a reality without that extra load."
"it's the same model, with the old common texture plastered from all wrecks, as is the case with current capital wrecks. copy and paste. nearly zero work for art department."
"1.0"
"1.0"
"supported! excellent solution... and a simple one at that."
"is there anyone who dislikes the idea and participate in the testing and bugreporting?or is is just 'i do not want others to have possibility i would not use; not because it would disbalance the game, but solely on principle.?'"
"hello, everyone thank you for using time for me first of all, please see the mail delivered to the player of a part of living in japan.this is the contents of the mail. nexon is a company which has established reputation in account hacking in japan. in a japanese player, many persons of an idea negative to the fee collection in nexon exist. probably, many those who resign eve also exist. a japanese community will receive a serious damage. nexon is recording the member of the 26 million membership and nexon point which the member has will have big influence on the economy of eve. moreover, nexon is also an authority of item fee collection. the living player in japan is forced into a new fee collection receptionist. however, i surmise that it is all the players that are affected.that is, it is that the fund of other games flows into the market of eve via nexon.this will give a serious damage to eve economy. please consider this nexon point once.please tell me your opinion. p.s it is writing by machine translation."
"sure sounds bad. does this apply to all players loggin in from an ip range registered to japan? or those whose credit cards show they are living in japan? if it is the latter, couldn't you circumvent this by using a payment method that obscures your country of residence? like plex bought for you by someone else?how will you understand our replies to your post? machine translation will likely scramble our meaning thoroughly."
"customers in japan should have the option to use nexon or not if they so choose.necessity is the plea for every infringement of human freedom. it is the argument of tyrants; it is the creed of slaves. - william pitt"
"if most of his post is true it presents a tough situation for eve players in japan. i hope someone from ccp can vouch for the credibility of their new business partner. a company with a hacking reputation would certainly make me feel uncomfortable as a subscriber. best of luck to all eve players in japan."
"thank you for the opinion.information is not released about the technology for specifying the player of living in japan. he understands that it is better for there to be selection of the fee collection methods other than nexon."
"the uneasiness of a japanese player is big and much comment which expresses displeasure with a community can hear it. this opinion has appeared in the player which experienced many online games. since there is little safe material, such as improvement in information control and improvement in security, uneasiness only becomes large."
"domo.i was going to ask about citing nexon hacking references, but a google search immediately brought up a youtube video on hacking nexon accounts, many reports of nexon vulnerabilities in other games, etc. i would never use them.can japanese players buy gtc's from ccp or an authorized reseller and not use nexon as a workaround?"
"i, for one, am curious as to how nexon might be related to soe, considering the apparent exclusivity arrangements both have fashioned with ccp.. or if that's just how ccp has been doing business lately."
"cotton, there is a thread on this with further information and a short statement by ccp over in general discussion. apparently, monthly rates will be significantly below 3,000 yen and you will still be able to work around nexon by paying by plex."
"this honestly should be asked of nexon...not ccp.this isn't all that different as opposed to using paypal or \"green dot\" visa cc (monthly fee) and all that.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"solo playerthank youthe argument had already started. i would like to ask nexon and ccp and to collect information.i think that it is unfair as selection of fee collection that it becomes impossible to use a credit card and paypal."
"again...this is a nexon issue...ccp will not have an answer to this.also keep in mind this is also international in terms of currency handlnig...================ stop the evemail spam!"
"under that same logic, do you not think bob might possibly have had problems earlier if they had allowed director level access across the board to all of their corporate members?ultimately, directorship in all but the smallest of corporations should be a very trusted and privileged position. if someone makes it to that level in a corporation and one day decides to cause some trouble, then so be it. the same goes for someone works their way up the corporate ladder with these specific intentions. ultimately, you shouldn<U+FFFD>t have the same level of trust with a standard corp member as you would with a director, or even vice versa.in all of this, i am not for a minute suggesting that we try and eliminate the possibilities for theft, scamming, espionage, sabotage and so on. myself and many others just want simple tools to counter this side of the game, in this particular case by allowing corporate members access to do relatively simple stuff, without wildly unnecessary exposure to the corporations assets and interests.twice in the last few weeks i have had conversations with pilots regarding recruitment, that touched on the industrial aspects of the game. the first prospective recruit was interested in getting involved with the corporations<U+FFFD> industrial efforts, as they had significant and underused science and industry skills. the second prospective recruit was interested in using some of our bpos and research facilities. i had to tell both pilots that it would probably be weeks, if not months before we would grant them the roles to be able to do this. the pilots both understood the absurdness of the situation, with one eventually giving up on the idea of assisting with industry projects and joining a dedicated pvp corp, and the other forming a corp with his industrial alt, so that he could anchor a pos and just use his own research facilities.i would consider both of these situations to be as absurd as each other, and striking examples of how simple changes like this need to be implemented now, rather than years down the road with a more comprehensive overhaul of the roles system."
"having recently had to deal with just this set of permissions, i completely understand the issues. long story short, you should have a probation period. get to know the person.then make a decision about trusting them. if you don't why are they still in your corp?tbfh, the current system mostly fails in the ui aspect of it. if it was clear what various roles allowed then most issues would be avoided.fix the ui, and stop letting people you don't trust in your corp. if you have a good screening process, you can get most of the people who aren't pro theives, and aren't after you for personal reasons(revenge seekers). those 2 are gonna get access if they really want it because they know how to game people, not the system."
"we already have a lot of this stuff in place. short probationary periods as part of in game channels before we even accept new members into the corp. probationary periods before we give out any basic hanger or roll access. further probationary periods before we allow members to use our wormhole facilities <U+FFFD> and so on.i don<U+FFFD>t think this is as simple as whether you trust someone or not. i am sure you trust most of not all of your standard membership <U+FFFD> but do you trust them enough to give them director level access? it<U+FFFD>s levels of trust, and the risk of handing out roles to someone verses the rewards and benefits of a particular member getting the rewards. right now, the risks (exposing the whole of the corporations s&i jobs) verses the rewards for a member being able to copy a kestrel bpo do not stack up <U+FFFD> especially so for larger corporations where you could be looking at access for 10<U+FFFD>s of players to such roles.if you made this change, you are still going to have to hand out hanger and lab access and you are still going to have to setup wallet access. in turn, the process is still going to involve levels of trust and there will still be oppertunities for pilots to break this trust - particularly with corporations who have not locked down bpo's, secured wallets and hangers and so forth.in all of this, we should also consider this from the prospective of your members:member > hey, you guys have frigate bpo<U+FFFD>s? great! can i run off a few copies to try out invention?director > no, come back in 3 months time when we have got to know you better and can trust you not to cancel 10 billion isk worth of industry jobs"
"1.0"
"posted in \"features & discussion\" but thought it would be better suited here.dear ccp,i know this has been mentioned in the past but thought it wouldnt hurt mentioning it again.since you have been ever so generous to us as of late may i request that you make it so that our buy/sell orders are highlighted in the market list.it would make things for us market jews that bit quicker plus it probably is a simple change requiring minimal coding (not that i know anything about coding...!).thank you in advance,keen aresimarket jew extraordinaire"
"simple enough idea and should benefit all market users to some degree"
"simple and straightforward.+1"
"arrgh, stupid forum at my entire post! *edit* twice now...anyways, the tldrneed a negotiation platform for wars! terms for surrender/ ransom. provide terms of isk, time of immunity from another war, when the war gets dropped, etc. eliminate war evasion this way. ccp needs to eliminate alliance hopping regardless, period!boost mission ai with tougher more player like npcs.counter-missions for mission runners! mix in competior npc corps that send players after same goals, or attack/defend situations, where competing players can engage each other only in mission space.create cat & mouse npc corps courrier contracts. send player 1 to deliver goods a distant station. while player 2 is given info to intercept and to either destroy or ransom the goods from player 1.fix bounties, create qualifications (sec status/faction standings) to get bounty contracts to get the marked target anywhere!yeah that was my tldr, but would be great to see these changes!"
"[something new:i really like this idea! being a gladiator could be a career path. have some sort of base payout for competing (some small amount) then the house awards the winner with some isk depending on a ladder/rank system. throw in some side betting. however, it would all have to be instanced with a queue. i would want to log on and just jump into a match. i do not want to deal with organizing a match or trying to find someone to fight. maybe it could be some sort of virtual sport that people play while docked.something old:missions... i once had an idea about leveling each agent. like they all start off at level 1 but by doing some storyline missions for them, the agent will gain standing with their corp, so then the corp will give the agent a harder storyline. with all of those missions we do for an agent, i would think that the agent is seeing some benefit also. however, i would still want the agent to be able to give out those random non-storyline mission at what ever level they are at and each storyline has to be unique to each agent. i would not want to see two agents with the same exact storyline mission."
"(edited to reflect new insight gleaned from discussion)[issue]running missions is so boring only bots would enjoy it.at the moment, missions in eve are static, predictable, imposed on the player and, frankly, rather less than exciting. what's more, the best missions are available at static mission hubs overcrowded by missioneers and, worse, bots.[solution]much is to be said (and has been) for systems that randomise, vary or link missions in fresh ways to keep them entertaining. my idea does not have much impact on that. instead, i suggest that ccp rethink their system of providing missions to the players. this proposal details a way to offer the player a selection of missions at all times in a dynamic way by means of a mission board with a mission supply that reflects both player activity and local flavour.[details]introduce a new station service called \"the mission board\" or the like. - on it, resident agents offer missions much like the current contract system. offered missions may be limited to select missioneers dependent on standings, security status (positive or negative) or militia membership.- missions would spawn according to system sec status, system sovereignty, system rats, owner of station, type of station, type of celestial body it orbits, maybe even local economy (reacting to unmet market demand or oversupply) or local (random, like disasters, plagies or famines) events.- more importantly, spawn rate, reward amount and types of missions* all would depend on player population, ratting frequency, number of missions accomplished/failed and other player activity dependent factors. (it would be possible to fill up all missions on a well-served station. thus, mission hubs would not remain static.)- missions on offer would expire after a preset amount of time.players could log onto the board when in station to see those available to them at any time. they could check out the mission objectives, rewards, collateral and level. rewards would not just depend on level and standing, but also on the individual mission template, travel length, local missioneer activity, etc.when a player accepts a mission, a short timer (around half a minute) is displayed, during which a mission is tagged as \"under negotiation\". during that window, other players can (secretly) enter an incrementally lower reward offer and accept the mission themselves. the lowest offer when the timer runs out gets the mission (and is immediately charged the collateral to reduce griefing). this system avoids missions to be snatched up by the first to see them after spawning or disappearing while a player is still reading the description.missions will have to be accomplished within a reasonable time frame (less time than now) and failure will have the price of the collateral and a standings penalty. failed missions would (instantly?) become available again.an associated new skill, \"missioneer\", would determine the amount of missions players could have active at any one time. (this further serves to reduce the likelihood of griefers just hogging all missions in a station, but still allows dedicated missioneers to accept a number of compatible missions to fill up their cargo or save themselves multiple trips.)the conventional mission system would be retained, albeit with reduced numbers of available agents and other modifications. basically, npc mission agents would offer \"tours of duty\", where players could \"sign up\" (gaining an instant status increase) to offer that corp their exclusive missioning service for a while. players could only be signed up with one single npc corp at a time. this obligation would be enforced for maybe a couple dozen successful missions before they are released. players could, however, be dishonourably discharged at will or after a number of failed missions, but at the cost of a massive loss of standings.these missions would focus more on story, so they would certainly include the current storyline missions as well as the factional epic missions. [pros]- players would be given choices and a chance to specialise in certain types of missions.- local mission supply would react to player activity.- missioneers would find an incentive to spread out and move from time to time.- there would be indirect player competition on at least two levels.- system security could easily be made to impact on mission rewards.- public missions, events or even black market/illegal missions could easily be implemented.- bots would have a harder time missioning.- this would add incentive to visit low sec systems, since (initially heavily serviced) high sec systems will dynamically lower rewards over time. [cons]- missioneers would be forced to continuously adapt and remain flexible for maximum profit.- current agent standings would lose importance, so player investment would be lost.- would require careful balancing with conventional mission agent system.- some resources would need to be diverted to set this up and test it by ccp.- poor bots would have a harder time...[tl:dr]offer missioneers a dynamic selection of missions to choose from instead of shoving them down their throats one by unwanted one. also, let player activity impact on mission running in various interesting ways.* offering some of the current missions on the mission board would unbalance this by them being unreasonably profitable due to rat drops. this would could be avoided by modifying those mission rats to remain within the work/risk/reward ratio of other missions offered at that station at the player's agent standing.or it could be amended by implementing the dynamic missions concept previously picked up by the csm, giving simple missions a small chance to (even according to a player's in-mission choices) escalate into something much bigger."
"everyone knows eve players don't shower."
"the main issue with ship spinning being removed was not that people only missed being able to spin their ships around. the functionality that was missing was the ability to drag a ship out of the \"ships\" window into the hangar to activate that ship, the ability to double-click in the hangar view to open the cargo bay, and the ability to right-click in the hangar view to open the drone bay, corporate hangars, etc.there was functionality there which was taken away in cq or \"the door\" views of the station interior.the issue was not the removal of a \"solo play\" environment, it was about the removal of functionality that players had enjoyed for years."
"mara most of the functionality that you speak of was never removed. all those functions were still available by clicking on the ship icon in the ships menu as they remain today available by doing the same. double clicking the ship icon replaced dragging it to the hangar to activate, arguably easier by the way.go ahead and make yourself feel better by saying things that are completely baseless in facts known to every competent player of eve, if blatant intellectual dishonesty works for you, however this thread is about the fact that unintended solo play brings value to many eve paying subscribers and ccp had to recalibrate their usual heavy handed disregard for a solo pleasure they removed. i am hopeful that ccp is a little better as an organization having learned a lesson that customer feedback can add value to their product .i suspect if the complaints raised by most players had been as specious as the inaccurate after the fact rationalization you put forth a simple statement from ccp telling people all that functionality was still in the game ( because we all had to use it until the hangar was restored) would have been the only result and we would all still be looking at the door. people missed ship spinning, plain and simple. that is not to say this was the only complaint voiced by eve subscribers but it was the one most frequently articulated by a significant margin in the chats i was a participant of in all of my several accounts. the other gripe most frequently heard were \"i undocked in the wrong ship\", but i heard that nearly as often as i heard and still hear players saying they forgot their drones when warping out of a belt, or forgot to load their cargo when going on a distribution mission. i never undocked in the wrong ship because i pay attention an i do not resist change when it is presented just because i am used to doing things a certain way."
"tl;dr?i don't even get the point of this long winded wall of text, much less what you're proposing to change (i.e. why said lwwot is in the assembly hall)."
"okay i'll use smaller words and shorter sentences for your skill level ..... ccp listens to players good ...... ccp ignores players bad ..... solo players pay also.... ccp should be happy..... ccp make all paying players happy.... the end"
"is this one of those rants over nothing again?because i fail to see what the hell hes talking about...let alone what hes aiming at.small words my @$$.stop whining.if you got a major issue to get at....then get to the bloody point or please step off.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"you actually made your point less clear with that.let me try using a sentence structure you'll understand.wtf are you whinging on about? kthxbai!"
"a mind is a terrible thing to waste ...... some people cant understand normal thinking"
"so because i did not cater to your short attention span i am the one whining? lol"
"that's all you have to say?your a terrible troll.please...get to the point...or go away...becasue this is a very poor whine thread.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"attention span aside, i do believe what is being asked, is just get to the point, and quit rambling, it muddles the point you are trying to make.kind of like this.point:is this what you are asking?"
"i believe my name was uttered in this thread repeatedly.+1 out of principle"
"i endorse all forms of solo pleasure in the captain's quarters and look forward to reading many stories about them."
"the functionality that was removed, in point form for people reading with their eyes closed: the ability to double-click the background of the station environment to open the ship's cargo bay the ability to make a ship active by simply dragging it out into the background of the station environment the ability to access the ship's special features by right-clicking on the background of the station environment no, the functions were not available when they were removed.here's an experiment for you: fill your hangar with a hundred ships and three piles of ammo - one small, one medium, one large. activate your frigate. now head out and shoot stuff in your frigate. head back to station and load your frigate with ammo. if you are lucky, your frigate will be at the beginning or the end of the list of ships in the hangar. otherwise the easiest way to access the cargo bay of your frigate is to double-click on the background.here's another experiment for you: get into combat and have your ship blown up. you are excited. you can simulate the level of excitement and its impact on your physiology by injecting a few ml of adrenaline and caffeine. are your hands shaking now? good. you've been podded, but you want to get those bastards who podded you! so head into the hangar and try right-clicking the ship you want to fly and picking \"make active\". hrm, having trouble? did you accidentally hit \"repackage\" or \"trash item\" instead? wouldn't it be much faster to simply drag that ship out onto the background? yes, in fact for people who don't have shaky hands, it's still faster: rather than having to use fine motor skills you're only using coarse motor skills, and on top of that you don't have to right click, then click <U+FFFD> just click and drag <U+FFFD> so there is one less action to be performed.you could avail yourself of the trove of facts known to the competent players of eve, before making statements about how baseless my arguments are. your intellectual self-deceit is only equalled by your onanistic argument."
"just for the sake of argument, what forms of solo play are ccp removing from your repertoire?"
"were the op drawn towards civilised discussion, i believe he would answer that, having pandered to the apparent demands of my ilk in one instance (ship spinning being a opportunity to solo play, it seems), ccp should consequently reconsider their stated disregard for solo players and introduce further (exclusive) features for playing solo. while i neither share to op's interpretation on ccp's motivations nor his tone, i certainly sympathise with the general direction of his demands."
"* need for more topography within null sec* need for more content, customization, and progression within null sec* need for more resources that can be attacked that will also generate conflict* need for more pve and pvp diversity within null secproposal: remove sovereignty bills and replace them with a new resource that powers all sovereignty upgrades and structures. limit the total amount of the resource that is available, within the universe, in a manner that will balance the resource<U+FFFD>s scarcity so that while alliances will have to watch their stores they will not be losing their sovereignty every other day.back story: certain stars shed inordinate amounts of their mass via ejection or solar wind. these stars are rare and vary in their outputs. structures were constructed on these stars that would harvest hydrogen from the solar wind. these structures were akin to giant ram scoops. once they have collected the hydrogen, they then refine it to usable concentrations. some of the hydrogen is used, along with energy generated from the sun, to generate large quantities of antimatter. hydrogen and antimatter were then packaged together into removable charges that could be transported to other structures that needed power. these giant factories are still in operation within high security and low security space; however they have fallen into disrepair in null security space.antimatter fuel cells:* these are the fuel cells created by the stations in low orbit around the sun.* they cannot be stored for longer than 2 hours in anything other than a sovereignty structure using them, the production facilities in which they are created, or an auxiliary storage unit.* they destroy themselves after two hours.* they are large enough that only a handful of them at maximum can be crammed into the largest industrials.* each one can power a sovereignty structure for a given unit of time.* they deplete faster as you install more upgrades/services.production facility online:* you must install and online a command and control unit to online the facility. this unit might take the same amount of time to online as a small pos module.* the facility begins producing annihilation batteries as soon as this structure is online. the command and control module is immune to attack as long as the ihub within the system is also immune. it may be attacked when after the system has been conquered.* once the system is conquered, the command and control module may be destroyed and replaced. any fuel cells stored within the facility will be saved as long as a new command and control module is onlined within 24 hours of the destruction of the previous one.production facility upgrades:* fuel cell storage modules increase the number of fuel cells that you can store. (duh)* hypothetical numbers: you could install a max of 5 modules that double your storage capacity.* heat dissipation modules increase the production facility<U+FFFD>s manufacturing rate so that you produce more fuel cells in a given 24 hour period.* hypothetical numbers: 6 modules that represent 10% of total production each.* all of these modules may be attacked at any time. their destruction would mean the immediate loss of storage capacity, and destruction of fuel cells, or the loss of production rate.* if they are destroyed, then a repair order must be given from the command and control module in order to prepare for the installation of new modules. this could possibly use other resources and should take at least 24 hours. there is also the possibility of limiting the number of repair jobs that a command and control module can perform at any one time. this would mean that 3 destroyed modules would require a cumulative 72 hours for all of them to be back online.* these modules are immune to all forms of electronic warfare.* they have a signature radius equivalent to a cruiser.* they orbit around the stations axis that is perpendicular to the sun<U+FFFD>s surface. this gives them a non-zero angular velocity.* they have a physical radius that precludes the use of fighters or fighter bombers upon them.* their ehp should be balanced so that a moderate sized gang would have the ability to destroy a small number of them within 10 to 20 minutes, but that a larger gang would be necessary to destroy all of them within a reasonable amount of time.* attacking these modules would generate a warning mail to the owning alliance. there could be a potential delay added.reinforcement:* the production facility could be given the ability to reinforce itself once every 24 hours for a maximum of 8 hours. during this period all of the modules would be invulnerable to attack and the facility would burn strontium.* there would be a variance timer on the reinforcement mode of +/- 3-6 hours.* the owning alliance would set the schedule for reinforcement mode."
"alternate sources of fuel cells:* these would most likely be necessary in order to allow new groups to begin their conquest of null sec.* wormholes: anchor structures that produce very low amounts of fuel cells.* concord lp stores: very limited amounts of cells from concord via lp and a sizeable isk portion.* theft from other alliances or npc structures in low security or null security space. (see below)other options and possibilities:* auxiliary storage unit that could be anchored at a moon, but it would burn fuel cells to use. these could be attacked and destroyed at any time resulting in a total loss of their contents. we could also explore the possibility of being able to move these storage units from moon to moon or system to system with some sort of cool down.* player outposts could burn fuel cells. the more services you have the more they burn.* jump bridges could burn fuel cells.* fuel cells could be stolen from storage units or the production facility. i have not thought out a way to do this, but it would be nice if it used hacking and was limited and controlled somehow. it might be necessary to increase the amount of time fuel cells can be unplugged in order to foster their theft.* wormhole jam <U+FFFD> could be a structure that you anchor at a wormhole. it burns fuel cells. it also keeps the wormhole open far beyond its mass and time limits."
"what method would you put in to ensure the guy who's job it is to haul these things 23/7 doesn't kill himself?"
"not just no but hell no."
"yay, more micromanaging work for the 0.0 grunts, because pos fuel isn't painful enough. /sarcasm"
"if this wasn't tied to sovereignty, ihubs or powering structures in anyway, but rather another isk farming mechanism i would give it a +1however your approach just kind of kills it."
"the gauntlet has been thrown down ccp. you have been talking a good game recently. now it's time to prove you're above adolescent petty vendetta.free kugu."
"screw censorship, free kugu"
"kick mrchiand free kugu"
"i enjoy flying stealth bombers.sometimes i find myself forced to drop bombs even if i don't have a warp out and end up dead. it's ok. but sometimes i just end up on grid because a fleet member got too close or i hit a can. it's awful when you loose a bomber like that. i would pretty much like it if i were able to drop a bomb that simply acts like an instant jump beacon for my bomber on impact. thus moving my bomber out of harms way, say 40 km from the launch spot. i believe 10 000 m/s is an optimal speed for that bomb. the bomb would be a t2 and require a t2 bomb launcer of course. being able to switch bombs while cloaked would be a nice bonus. *new* ever wanted to turn your stealth bomber into a bomb? gents and gals, i give you the \"suicide bomb\". you jump in the blob and you hurt it. might be an expensive hit but you're not going down solo. i'd like to see feedback from as many of you capsuleers with proposals for other helpful bombs and may the csm take this to the devs.spin safe."
"huh? why?"
"your doing it wrong mate.not supporting.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"dec shield says it can cost quite a bit. but it doesn't matter whether it costs 2 isk or 2 billion. the point remains: i spent money on the ability to wage war for a set amount of time, they are able to shrug it off before that time has expired. you can't tell me that's \"working as intended\". it may be tolerated as functioning, but that's all."
"tolerated as functioning from both sides of the equation.how do you find a system that \"works\" for people who don't want to pvp, without simply making them immune to pvp? just face the fact that if the target doesn't want to participate, you have to resort to suicide ganking."
"u mad bro?"
"that's fine. i will accept that i cannot evade a wardec you paid for, as long as my corporation or alliance can pay an equal amount of money to concord to end the wardec whenever we want.there, now we're both paying the same amount of isk.or are you going to tell me your isk is better than mine?"
"clever....talk about your isk sinks.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i propose that damage inflicted by a smartbomb deactivate the cloaking devices.reasons why i think this behavior should exist:in-game alerts currently say that cloaking devices become deactivated due to proximity to objects in space. i would assume this is due to some kind of disruption of the light bending of the cloaking device due to gravimetric or electromagnetic disruption of the cloaking field around the ship. i don't see why a pulse from a smartbomb wouldn't do something similiar.i also really like the parallel this would create to wwii destroyers performing submarine hunting activities. you could have a heavy interdictor with it's bubble up cruising around an area suspected of housing a cloaked ship pulsing smartbombs. just like destroyers dropping depth charges!anyway i think cloaked ships have enough advantages in their favor, and being able to take damage and remained cloaked seems broken to me."
"the odds of a smart bomb hitting a cloaked ship are just as astronomical as you ramming into one.your better off using drones oribiting your ship tbqh.waste of time to make this request in all honesty.not supporting.note: damage doesn't decloak a ship....but an object within 2500m will....this alone is more than enough to decloak a ship. smartbomb ranges are not taht spectacular as it is.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i suggest you place a description a.k.a. \"catchy name\" for your proposal in the thread title - chances are hardly anyone will notice it otherwise."
"yet another cloak crybaby if you dont like people cloaking get out of nullsec and grow a pair"
"actually, our interceptor pilots do quite well at catching even fast-moving covert ops ships on jump-in. an extra 500m \"detection zone\" around the ship would probably increase our success rate. a battleship gang spread out around the gate would probably have even better luck with double the normal decloak zone.in any case, i'm opposed to the idea."
"moreover mittani, if you go back to your humble beginnings you will understand what is happening here.with a couple of slight changes. i am a person that enjoys helping new pilots and intensifying null sec activity.you might want to review your busy bees. they have been very, very busy."
"check your own corps and you will have a glance."
"i am curious as to how you think this will work out.i would like to give my views on what will happen.if you manage to create a big enough alliance: you get wardecced. not by anyone in null-sec but by hi-sec greifers and hi-sec pirates.what are your views on this?i would see a largely industry focused alliance as a hi-sec war deccers wet dream."
"ohhhh buuuurn"
"thats part of the idea, however its a long journey and the strategy is quite complex.what i do understand is that big griefing alliances will help to keep this feasible.the mistakes and internal problems that i know from first hand will generate a crossroad. dust514 will be crucial.if u want to join contact me."
"i'd actually like to see this happen, purely for the entertainment value. that being said, lo & null sec need a little shaking up, putting a new \"big boy\" on the block. i'm neither here nor thei in the fight, but i like rooting for the underdog. it makes for good reading. nice job on the video!"
"thanks cordo,we are not alone. don<U+FFFD>t be afraid to join.just spread the voice...the time will come...this has been prepared for years."
"oops...your killboard is not working."
"this isn't really that important in the grand scheme of things, but it's one of those little consistency issues that can be fixed easily ... i think ...you pointed out the mythological background of the talos' name in the shiptroduction, and the rest of the names are mostly based on greek mythology (as i posted in another forum, erebus, husband and brother of nyx, parents of moros, thanatos, and the oneiroi among others; eris the goddess of discord, sometimes equated with the war goddess enyo described as a companion or possible sister to ares, god of war; etc.) - so why is the charon a caldari freighter? because it looks sorta like a ferry?rename the obelisk into the charon, and give the caldari freighter some suitably bird-inspired name - albatross? i dunno - or at least rename the caldari one, as i doubt they would want to mimic the gallente in any way :) (rename the rhea too while we're at it, although the anshar is at least based in mesopotamian mythology ...)just one of those annoying little things; back to your regularly scheduled important spaceships business."
"you know that our people (the gallente) and the caldari were once one people, right?"
"hmm. he has a point.and i'll point out that gallente aren't just greek mythos, there's also a decent bit of mesopotamian influence, and some babylonian and roman too iirc. the point still stands though. i highly doubt it'll end up getting changed, since ccp isn't locked into any mythological trends, they just tend to use them. swapping the names of two ships would confuse a lot of people who know little to nothing about mythology and don't care.note: while rhea is the name of a titaness in greek mythology, it is also the name of a bird. so there is less reason to change its name."
"based on this alone....i don't think its really going to be that big of a deal.================ stop the evemail<U+FFFD>spam!"
"this simulated pvp would come with no rewards, no reputation loss. that<U+FFFD>s right you will not get the rush when you escape the bubbled gate camp with your recon ship at 5% structure, or when you 6 player team of stealth bombers + a recon take down a carrier. that's the point it's a no gain/lost <U+FFFD>sandbox<U+FFFD>, how would this affect real <U+FFFD>eve pvp<U+FFFD>, others keep talking about in this chat where there is real or loss or gain to pvp. as noted above and i totally agree with <U+FFFD>in order to survive, eve needs more subscribers ... if you want to keep them, you'll have to appeal to a broader audience (and yes, that may mean doing a few things like ..... the other mmo's out there)<U+FFFD> the proposal was to provide a no loss/gain <U+FFFD>sandbox<U+FFFD> so newer players can experience that part of the game while coming to grips with the vast complexities of eve and what is a good ship fitting and what makes a target. this is why people play as there is so much involved in this game, helping out players to grasp the basics of ship functions can only help. if ccp can add a video capture function so players can practice then playback in the current eve software rule set to improve tactics even better.once again i state this as some above commented about how it will affect mission runners or markets as eve depends on pvp to blow stuff up to generate a demand. this <U+FFFD>sandbox<U+FFFD> for simulated pvp will have no gain in any way but player upstanding of eve mechanics. that<U+FFFD>s no isk, no drop of modules, no salvage to sell, no sovereignty changes that no gain but player skill/knowledge of how to fly a ship with fitting they select to fit. so if a player wants the rush or gain of pvp they will have to leave this <U+FFFD>sandbox<U+FFFD> and play in real eve."
"this^^ with recording feature of real combat would be very useful! and not providing free pvp. op, your suggestion is just a sad work around to play a risk free eve... very lame."
"dear astoreve wasn't meant to have blobs of 1000s duking it out in local. the most you can effectively get into a system is around 200ish without things reverting into a 1 sided lag-fueled z0mgwafflestompjita.... lag.... you dont say.and who said it has to be an fps? give me guns and i'll go tombraider/freelancer on your ass.so bring me eve-sims, eve-simcity and eve-tombraider/gta.regards"
"what to do in eve online. pay special attention to exploration! you could look at joining red vs blue. the war is perpetual, and static. it sounds to me to be an ideal situation for the casual gamer interested in pvp.as far as incursions go, you could be auto piloting to the new incursion constellation while you are busy doing other things (e.g: showering or putting kids to bed).importantly: don't grind for isk if you are time-poor. consider buying isk with plex, or look for activities that don't require a significant isk investment (e.g.: rvb in t1 frigates only)."
"what about removing asteroid belts and putting asteroids in grav sites instead?no more confusion about what it means to \"warp to 0km from a beacon.\""
"problems:* need for more content, customization, and progression within null sec* need for more resources that can be attacked that will also generate conflict* need for more pve and pvp diversity within null secsummary:dominion features had initially included talk concerning the addition of agents to null security space through upgrades installed, by player entities, within territory that they controlled, but this did not happen due to technical difficulties that would have been involved in implementation. could we examine the feasibility of spawning mission agents in ships, in space, and utilizing the system for spawning anomalies and complexes to spawn mission sites for these agents? this system would add to the topography of null security space. it would create more interesting and varied pve content that could possibly draw players into null security space. it would create flash points for short term conflicts ranging from small scale to large scale. if possible, the addition of another separate but viable lp store within the game would act as another isk sink.these agents would be added as a secondary index to the military index is filled by completing missions for these agents. the initial agent is allowed after reaching a specific point on the military index. in addition to this, the destruction of these agents by players would decrease your alliances index rating. if the rating drops too low, then agents that require that level or above in order to operate will cease operations within your territory. alliance members will lose access to the missions and lp stores provided by the lost agents until the index is raised again.the nitty gritty: i have attempted to outline some ideas of how these agents should function. i have attempted to address the problems that i could foresee. i.e. time zone warfare, game balance, gerrymanderingagent features:* creation of a secondary index for the military index that allows the alliance to import agents into their space* index has 5 levels and allows access to more valuable agents as it increases (tier 1 agents are allowed at the first level and tier 5 agents are allowed when the index is at level 5)* agents are part of splinter corporations aligned with the various pirate and outlaw factions. negative reputation with the agent<U+FFFD>s parent faction will not block an alliance/player from interacting with them. performing story line missions will result in a small increase with the agent<U+FFFD>s parent faction. performing missions with the agent will cause the players/alliances reputation to shift relative to the other tier agents splinter corporations* alliances are allowed a maximum of 5 tier 1 agents, 4 tier 2 agents, 3 tier 3 agents, 2 tier 4 agents, and 1 tier 5 agent within a region* agents are distributed randomly within the region they are assigned to after downtime* more than 1 agent may not be placed within a single system* agents must have a minimum amount of space between them and another agent (i.e. 0 jumps between tier 1 agents, 1 jump between tier 2 agents,<U+FFFD>,<U+FFFD>, and 4 jumps between tier 5 agents* alliances must control a minimum amount of space in order to gain access to the various tiers of agents (i.e. 1 system for tier 1 agents, 3 systems for tier 2, 5 systems for tier 3,<U+FFFD>, and 10 systems for tier 5)* alliances may designate a time period in which the agents are active. the minimum duration is 16 hours. agents will enter space at their designated time (+/- 3 hours)* only 1 tier 5 agent is allowed per region and the alliance that has control over the most space , and has at least 20% of the region, will be able to enlist its services.* only 4 tier 4 agents are allowed per region. the alliance that controls the most space, and has at least 20% of the region, will be able to enlist the services of 2 of these tier 4 agents. the remaining 2 tier 4 agents will be split between the next 2 sovereignty holding entities that control the 2nd and 3rd highest amount of space and at least 20% of the region.* agents may be attacked and killed. if they are killed then the owning alliance loses a specified amount of rep from their index. if the index drops below the necessary level for an agent, then those agents will not spawn again until the index is raised back to the required level. higher tier agents will be harder to kill but will result in a greater hit to the index. (ex. tier 1 agent with support could be balanced for a 5-10 man pvp gang and a tier 5 agent could be balanced for 30-40 man pvp gangs) all agents should use enhanced ai<U+FFFD>s. agents should generate some sort of warning message when under attack* agents will be blue to the alliance that sponsors them and possibly to the blues of that alliance. all other players will be red and will be fired upon."
"mission features:* missions should be balanced for multiple participants and geared towards pvp fit ships if possible* tier 1 missions could be balanced for 2-3 players, tier 2 missions 3-5 players, tier 3 missions 5-10 players, tier 4 missions 10-15 players, and tier 5 missions 15-20 players* mission rats should utilize enhanced ai<U+FFFD>s* mission rewards should utilize a reward system with a built in diminishing returns system (i.e. such as the one detailed for incursion) that gives increasing rewards to players until they exceed the designed capacity of a given mission* higher tier missions should require players to roam farther in order to complete them* all missions will occur within the region they are assigned to and within the sovereignty of the alliance that has summoned them* tier agents may periodically offer missions to players that require them to hunt and kill their competition that is working for other alliances* hi security agents aligned with the empires (i.e. republic fleet) may offer missions to mission runners that require them to go an kill tier agents within null security spacemission rewards and lp store:* develop an lp store that is separate from current lp markets* develop items that do not imbalance current pvp mechanics but that are desirable to players* balance the isk rewards so that they are competitive with null security anomalies* offset isk faucet of bounties with lp isk sink* possible lp store items may include: pirate faction drones (possibly up to and including fighters and fighter bombers), pirate faction combat drugs (with increased side effects as well as buffs), pirate faction implants (side effects and increased or new buffs), and pirate faction capital turrets* faction drones and modules could increase certain stats at the expense of others in order to decrease the chance of upsetting the current balance present within the game* tier agents would have access to limited amounts of items. higher tier agents would have access to larger quantities of items* each tier of agents would have a separate lp store list. bigger and better items would be available from higher tier agents. the loss of these agents would deprive alliance members the ability to purchase them until the agent is restored* items are purchased at the agent in space. they could either delivered in space in a cargo container or to the nearest station"
"burn your bra? lol"
"too many other broken mechanics in eve prevent fixing thishow this for an easy solution: each ganglinks blows up your sigrad 1 will turn a cruiser into a bc, 2 will turn it into a bs, 3 will turn it into a carrier, etc6 links, your a freaking titan as far as scanning downcombine that with blocking activation of ganklink mods inside pos shields, and oops, now bored scouts have something to do while the fight goes on(your scouts are fit with probe launchers, right? that is a pretty basic piece of gear for a scout to have, along with a point, and a cyno if you have hotdrop capabilities)this would also result in gank boosting being a bit more active because you have to balance your boosts against playing tag with the enemy scout, and the scout gets tos to play tag with the traps even pulls extra people off grid in a large blob fight"
"not supported the only change needed is to make them not work from inside pos shields oh, and make the t2 gang links exclusive to actual command ships, instead of the jack of all trades t3 making a specialized ship class utterly redundant"
"i agree that the risks are minimal i agree that needs to changei don't agree with your solution putting them on grid is only going to add incentive to people (in general) to bring more ships to protect those assets, increasing blob warfareganglinks already cannot be used while warping all that really needs to change is making them unusable from inside a pos shield - now if they are in use, they are uncloaked, stationary, and vulnerablewhat else do you need aside from a change in tactics to deal with them?"
"it takes way too much effort to kill off-grid gang booster compared to huge combat stat gain you get from gang boosters there would be much less problems if booster would have to be on same grid, even though you could still use long distance spots to gain relative safetyjust putting booster outside pos forcefield has minimal effect on this it is obvious that previous poster only thinks 1001 man fleets where you can have dedicated probers, bubblers, tacklers and several gang boosters and there booster balance has very little meaning since everyone has them anyhow you can't just ask people to have max skill prober with 1 bil implants just to try killing gang booster, that's assuming it sits still without changing ss while someone probes it out foreverproblems arise when you go roaming with small gang against bigger force of noobs like irc where they have gang booster sitting in every system or when some \"solopvp\" guy is \"owning\" people with gang link boat, neutral rr, ecm alt and \"pwnmobile\" also tech 3 gang boosters are too good compared to command ships, which should be better at boosting anyway isk shouldn't make difference cos it has very little meaning in mmo tech 3 can have cov ops cloak and nullifier they alone are enough to make it better even if bonuses wouldn't be so good compared to command shipdurr"
"if it was it would then have more then current 15 mill skill points ;)"
"issuerespawning belts just don<U+FFFD>t make sense from a rp or anti-bot perspective. remove them from the game and spawn random, small ice and ore gravimetric sites instead. criteriait is critical that these mining sites in empire be accessible from the system scanner and not probes to ensure mining remains <U+FFFD>new-player<U+FFFD> friendly. these sites should be small enough to last 30 minutes or so (40,000 m3) in a hulk before running out of ore. also, a site despawn time of 3 to 4 hours should be set to ensure that fresh sites are always available.low seclow sec should have full access to the high end ores and ice currently found only in null sec. they should also offer increasing quantities of ore to facilitate large, group mining ops. everyone knows that no one bothers mining in low sec because the ore value is trivial. low sec is every bit, if not more dangerous than null sec. the rewards should reflect this.null seclow and null sec mining sites should require scan probes to find to reflect their difficulty and value. without this mechanic low sec roams would consist of jumping into a system, hitting scan and then warping in on a <U+FFFD>helpless<U+FFFD> mining op. with probes, the miners can at least have a fighting chance with the directional scan and local."
"new players are given the astrometrics skill, a probe launcher and a bunch of core scanner probes as part of the tutorials. there is no reason to move belts to anomalies, just go whole-hog into grav sites moving to grav sites for asteroids and ice will also open the opportunity for new pilots to contribute to advanced mining fleets: the new pilot scans down new grav sites, scans the asteroids and reports to the fleet where the juicier sites are located. no need to train up for months to fly a hulk with t2 mining equipment."
"i like the sound of that. it would also slow down 0.0 rat bots...i think?i like the sound of that too. i have cc'ed your ideas to a similar post on assembly hall."
"what exactly is the value of a nullsec mining site if lowsec sites contain the same ores and ice?"
"i agree that all belts should be gravimetric sites but:- the lowest quality of these sites should be anomalies. this is for new players so that they can mine in a single ship without the need for a probe launcher. these sites should only appear in hi-sec.- each system gains an ore-density statistic which governs the probability of sites forming. a combination of security and governing nation (for hi-sec) should decide what is in the fields. the size of field should be dependant solely on ore-density.- null-sec ores should be available in very limited quantity in low-sec, however they will be displaced away from planets and require decent scanning skills to narrow down."
"why can't the new players probe down a site in their exploration ship, then mine it out in their mining ship?nullsec ores should be in null sec. i'd like to see ores more restricted by security status, such that pyroxeres and plagioclase were only available in 0.5 and 0.6 for example. veldspar would be the only ore that is universally available, simply due to the vast quantities of tritanium required for ship building (and because veldspar is holy).if ores are too widely available, they become worthless."
"nice one op.i like this idea of bounties being payed out by concord based on the value of the ship.i'm not sure how well the bounty system itself would cope if this was introduced. by this i mean quite a few bounties will be placed on hi-sec griefers so the only real way to collect is to sucide gank them or (shudders) try and war dec them.but i guess you could leave that problem for the future and concentrate on solving the current one.tl;dra very good idea. i want to see more discussion and debate."
"someone places a 6.25mil bounty on vile ratvile rat buys a hurricane from a buy order in verge vendor for 20milvile platinum insures that hurricane for 23mil at a cost of 7milvile has now spent 27milvile undocks and shoots himself with his alt the mittani the current jita/ index price used in determining bounty payout on a hurricane is 25milmittens recieves the 6.25mil for the bounty (25mil *25%)mittens recieves the insurance payout of 23mil vile placed on the shipmittens has now recieved 29.25mil 29.25mil-27.0mil= 2.25mil in profit for vile the problem with things that try and \"price\" ships and modules is that they rely on homogenized prices or are location-centric. as we all know there can be wild price differences region to region.... especially when you can buy things from evac'ing corps.such a system also relys upon relative stagnation in prices. you might be able to mitigate this to an extent on hum-drum items, but contract items like deadspace and faction. if you bought a gistii-b ssb 2 years ago it is now valued at 2-3x the amount you paid for it. moving it (in my case) isnt worth the time trasporting it to a hub. but if it meant i could collect a profit from a bounty by merely jump cloning... you see where i am goingis the amount that can be gained significant? probably not. is there still profit? yes.can i haz 100m now?"
"not sure what the insurance value of a hurricane is (i don't have one handy), but in this case the profit was realized when rat bought a 23m base value ship for 20m. he effectively profited 3m on the purchase.i believe insurance values are derived from the base value of the typeid, not the market. i also intended for bounties to be paid on this same value, sorry that wasn't clear. the bounty value on the ship in question is (23m*25%)=5.75m.plat insurance costs 30% of the base value of the ship, so the policy costs 6.9m.at base price, the profit (loss) for vile rat/the mittani is [-(baseprice=23m)+(insurancepayout=23m)-(policycost=6.9m)+(bounty=5.75m)]=(1.15m), minus the opportunity costs of setting himself and his alt up to do it. if he got the hurricane at a discount, then he nets 1.85m on the scheme, minus the additional opportunity cost of shipping the thing in from verge vendor, but the profit is still predicated on someone selling below base value, not the alt-killing. even then, he might have just flipped/refined it right way and realized a greater profit.i agree that insurance is really the big problem in the system. however, i still want trebor's money."
"how about you let pend take the stance that a bounty increases their risk and thus have them reduce the base ship value the insurance payout is calculated from by the part of the ships's value the bounty hunter is to receive? if we let pend handle bounties, they'd be in a good position to do just that.also, i'm not sure the insurance should go to the bounty hunter. too much impact on newish players that are frivolously bountied (in relation to those that aren't. i still think insurance should take into account insured player's sec status and ship loss history when calculating insurance premium and possibly refuse payout for concord-involved kills.)."
"insurance is a whole other ball of fish guts. previously i thought it would make sense to give ship insurance to the hunters, but that does nothing to players killing themselves with alts in order to void the bounty, so there's no reason to do that. i'm not quite willing to jump into the horror of the insurance system yet, but at 25% of ship value an alt-kill loses a little, instead of losing a lot. voiding all insurance on a wanted player unfairly penalizes poorer players. applying insurance to the remaining bounty (as i think was what vr had put forth) takes more money out of the game, but it trivializes the intent of the players who placed the bounty.rather than try and fix two incredibly broken systems at once, i'm in favor of using a 25% ship-blower-upper value to mitigate insurance exploits, and pray that someone looks at the insurance system as a whole. if that's not sufficient, then you can always lower the ship-blower-upper percentage, or even do away with it, but i'd like to keep some sort of incentive to go after a ship even if the pod is likely to get away.as for concord, they don't get a share of the bounty. consider these situations:1) a player jumps into jan and two bountied pilots jump him in battleships, triggering the gate guns as expected. the target is in a plated baitship and scrams the attackers instead of trying to slowboat out, and his friends warp in and take down the wanted pilots. they should get their share of the bounties even though the gate guns aggressed the attackers.2) a hulk pilot with his drones out gets targeted by bountied gankers. he loses his ship, but his drones attack the gankships before concord destroys them. he should get the bounties, piddly as they might be. (i can imagine a bunch of frigs trolling around trying to slap on a sensor damp to leech some of the money, leading to more hilarious escalations...)if you mean that players get no insurance when concord is on their killmail, i think that makes sense but it's out of scope for this proposal. a complex set of calculations to determine insurance rates, ehh... maybe it makes sense, but it also discourages explosions, which is one of the benefits of insurance. personally i'd like to see all insurance pay out less for everyone no matter what, but again, out of scope."
"***** moan, ***** moan. okay, i've paid you off. of course, if something like this system does get implemented, i will put a price on your head."
"if that dinosaur of a system ever gets improved, i'll gladly be bountied.ot: best wallet comment evar."
"i'll start by saying i'm a big fan of the general idea, but when i read the original post i was a little unhappy with assigning arbitrary value to implants and using them as part of the bounty (then again, i wasn't happy when dropped mods and implants appeared on killmails). on second read i'm really uncomfortable with the whole assigning arbitrary value to player produced items, especially things like faction mods.and the insurance thing is just a ****** attempt to squeeze a controversial idea in on the back of a popular one."
"i did, and i agree about the scope. best get this implemented as suggested for now and fix insurance later to make it even better. ...though it still grates badly that the bountied players will be able to get rid of the bounty at much lower cost than that of the guy who set up the bounty."
"player's don't produce faction mods. all the base values are indexed by typeid in the system, based on mineral value for t1 stuff (and probably for t2 stuff as badly as they insure). i'm not sure about how the base value of implants is indexed; i abstracted values based on isk/lp cost in corp lp stores.deleted the note about insurance in the original post since i missed it before. which insurance idea do you hate? i think insurance in general is crappy all around, but it's not within the scope of a bounty fix."
"yeah, i'm a bit rusty on the exact mechanics but i know this. i'm just very wary of anything which tries to apply a monetary value to a kill because it tends to result in people losing concern for any other value the kill might have (see, almost all killboards ever). not to mention the cost of a ship is only tenuously related to its combat ability. i guess i'd be happier with a system that paid out based on clone and hull baseprice only because we already have absolute values for those things in game already.as an afterthought, if i'm paid out based on the market cost of the mods on my ship, whats to stop me buying all of something rare but cheap (say t2 micro smartbombs), relisting at outrageous prices then having an alt kill me with a full rack on my ship?my language was probably a bit confrontational but my point was basically the same as yours. bounties are a tiny part of the game and almost universally considered broken. insurance spans almost all of it. people in this forum have a habit of trying to shoehorn their pet terrible idea into an otherwise good one by invoking the spectre of the current bogeyman (be it bots or goons or whatever) and it makes me really irationally angry. this idea stands on its own merit without needing to make extra concessions because a bunch of people have had their mining barges exploded recently."
"killboard whoring is definitely annoying. btw killboards do have the ability to periodically poll eve-central to get market averages for their kills, making a dead dramiel's whoring value closer to what you'd pay for it than the crappy basevalue. afaik modules do have a basevalue, and it's usually way under market. i want to include some factor of the destroyed modules since they're usually worth more than the hull, unless it's a suicide boat or somesuch.i don't want the market value to enter into it since that can be easily manipulated. if you get exploded and a bunch of oxytopes go up with you, the oxytope bounty contribution is base value, not panic-market price. you would only profit if you bought a bunch of ships below cost as per zircon's post. (i might check tutorial systems for this, as i know i dumped a bunch of free ships just to get rid of them after fixing my standings.) i think most things in eve have a base value; if they don't, easy enough to fix, or just ignore them in the calculation.bounties are fairly tiny, but imo they were set up sort of slapdash (a copy of the uo bounty system) and never fixed. enough people seem to want to be bounty hunters that it makes sense to address it. i'd like to see it be a reasonable pursuit.insurance is fundamentally broken, though people don't seem to agree on what it's there for: (1) to help you get on your feet when you explode, or (2) to encourage explosions by softening the loss. for a cheap t1 gankboat the percentage-based payout is higher than a typical rifter, and much higher than a t2-fitted paper mackinaw, so i can see a valid concern over the mechanics. but as soon as someone says goon/ice/the mittani/ih8ucsm the argument trails into trololol.ot:alternately, maybe a curved insurance value for ships can be introduced so that the value of it decreases as ship value increases. newbies, roaming pirate rifters, and tacklers get the best value as they're more likely to die a lot (and need the isk more), while bc's and bs's get less since you should probably be better at risk management by the time you jump into one. yeah dictors and t2 logi/ew die a lot too, but they should be getting ship reimbursement and free exotic dancers from their corps for the roles they play in fleet.that's probably a different thread though.long poasting, no sreeping."
"gah double post."
"according to one of my alliance mates ccp gm has confirmed that it is a ban able offense to can flip/bait in rookie systems. now i'm not disagreeing with this rule, but being this rule is not listed under the tos (i didn't check the eula but i'd be very surprised if it was in there) i think that is very problematic. if you are going to ban someone for it then it should be clearly listed on the tos. it is listed at"
"now, im not saying this is a good habit to develop but:the average eve gamer is going to be either a caucasian or black male between the ages of 14-35, and the average male of that age group is ~4 minutes.the average tos or eula is about 3-90 pages long (lol).in summary, i can guarantee less than 1% of all people who play eve have actvively gone in and read the tos and eula, since at last haf of them probably didn' read the contract for their new car before tey signed it and now have 400 years of debt.the wiki for everything is where people usually go to learn everything about that which they need to wiki."
"the tos is only about 1.5 pages long and is full of, guess what, things you can get banned for. it only takes 1-2 sentences to say something about this and a link to either or both of those wiki documents. i'm sure most players don't read the tos, that's not my concern nor my reason for posting this. however almost everytime someone wants to know if they can be banned for something they are going to go to the tos and possibly the eula but not the wiki. i never said remove the info from the wiki but i am saying add a sentence to the tos."
"i've got a better idea. if said players don't mess with extremely young players who they know don't know any better, they'll have no issues at all. ccp shouldn't have to warn people not to be an ass and grief noobs."
"its a valid point, put it in the tos and all bases are covered properly. there is no legal requirement to read the wiki, however you are expected (even if you do not) to have read the tos."
"i'm not going to get many likes for this, and probably a lot of flame, but i need to get this out.assembly hall as a subforum originally had a clear purpose: a place to present both issues and proposals to the public, have them garner support from our peers and thus bring them to the attention of the csm in the hopes of getting it on their list of things they will talk about at the next summit.it is not the place to ask for feedback on a vague idea you just had. we have the i&d subforum for that.it is not the place for rants. neither is it the place to chat up/slander your favourite cms member. we have the jpc subforum for that. it is not the place for general discussion on this aspect or that. guess which subforum that should go into.it is also not the place to shove our intellectual superiority in anyone's face that has a different opinion from ours. we don't really have a subforum dedicated to that, though.yet i find the assembly hall to be hardly moderated. [proposals] with no sensible title and just a short one-liner inside remain in the hall next to prolonged personal feuds. this way, i think the hall has become an intransparent mess that cannot properly serve its purpose anymore. i believe action is required such as either strict moderation (possibly by the csm themselves?), education on how to properly peruse the subforum or both of them.is this just an issue to me?"
"you forgot \"it's not a place to discuss \"out of game\" issues such as payment options/issues as csm has absolutely no control over this.this is strictly... eve online - in-game.but i agree...supported for stronger moderation.ps: yes i'm sure i've been guilty of the above but i'm not the type to roll over and take it in the ass.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"proposalwe all know and love our navy tier 1 and tier 2 battleships. but what about some tier 3 battleship and battlecruiser love? this would add diversity to the ship lineup with minimal work as these hulls would require a <U+FFFD>minor<U+FFFD> re-texturing for the navy paint job.implementationlet these new navy ships be attainable through the faction warfare lp store to encourage more low-sec involvement. let<U+FFFD>s further incentivize this area of space to become more profitable, attracting more residents."
"enough faction and ****** low sp bullshit already, khanid abaddons pls"
"this is a p. good idea"
"it's a dumb idea and you should feel bad about posting it. sorry kiddo."
"this.classic goon \"hit\"but to be honest...i'm very sure many test on sisi.but we do not want to hand out sp's for testing.id rather see rewards be goodies like \"stuff\"isk....ships...modules....aurum perhaps?but not sp's. no touchy....bad mojo!================ stop the evemail spam!"
"give your money to the shogun, don't ask questions."
"since another argument is progressing by the same contents, it links there."
"hello, i would like to support the case. extra fees to nexon are not just annoying, its ripoff of japanese community. nexon does nothing to contribute to the game, will not host it or anything but still demand extra fees? for what? translation and site? dear ccp, please withdraw or rethink your alliance with nexon. if you wanted japanese translation i am 200% sure u could get one for free from community. putting nexons \"history\" aside, i as an international player don't want a another company to mess up with my game. i am not japanese but ill fight for them because stupid policy like that can anytime land on my own \"region\" so i and i think all of us have to fight before its too late. ccp and stellar council > vote for japan, keep prices and support equal regarding of location and keep entire community together!"
"there should be alternatives for playing from anywhere. being forced to deal with third party is bad form."
"this entire proposal is complete and utter ignorance.your throwing a damn fit over an another company who issues said fees and not ccp.for all you know ccp had no choice in the matter simply bsaed on japanese law.but keep wailing away at your wailing thread.... you won't get anywhere...you'll be screaming regardless of the outcome.again...take it to nexon...don't waste your time with ccp.i would have thought it would be obvious that if it was simple enough to make it available to any payment option eve online would already be there.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"by all means, let nexon be an alternative way of keeping ones subscription active .. but it should in no way be the only option. we euros/yanks/aussies/etc. would be royally pissed if ccp suddenly partnered with steam, ea's origin crap or some other known-to-be-greedy company that just happened to have advertising muscle and decreed that all payments must go through them .. just so that ccp could get marketing campaign at a discount."
"in the world of eve, it is very irrational that only the player of living in japan must charge nexon. i think that the choice of fee collection should not be unified for those who are enjoying <U+304B><U+308F> eve by the skill system to eve at some of play time. to be sure, the community of japan desires an increase in new players. nexon point is not necessarily wanted. in order that the member of nexon may sign eve, a using-nexon point question is not felt. i oppose to the fee collection method of making the existing player forcing into nexon point, strongly. nexon does not involve to the fee collection in plex. i am not necessarily doing eve, in order to obtain plex. if it continues charging by plex, i must be devoted only to the work which pushes down npc as a missions runner. probably, only those who need nexon should charge nexon. i do not need nexon at all."
"point taken.but no one said you had to use it.this is no different then me choosing not to use paypal when they charge an arm and a leg for overdraft fees...or a bank...or any other bloody cc.shall we scream at ccp for bank fee's?yes...we shouldn't force anyone to pay by 1 way...but that's due to the available options when it coms to transactions...not because \"ccp is being a jerk\".================ stop the evemail spam!"
"the contrary is not carried out to tying up with nexon as a means which increases a japanese player. it is not allowed to provide nexon with a japanese player as a means to tie up with nexon. it is a fact that many japanese players have distrust to nexon. many japanese players trust ccp. what kind of obstacle does paying directly ccp have? if ccp provides nexon with a japanese player, many excellent players will be resigned. ccp should give the freedom of fee collection selection to a japanese player."
"thank you [ people / which gave the opinion ] the situation of the japanese player should just be transmitted well. i hope the help of other players is obtained, in order that a community of japan may enable it to acquire the freedom of fee collection selection. please do not deprive japan of the existing fee collection method."
"will prevent the embarrassing 'i just beat my own buy order' situation from cropping up again.+1"
"+1 yes supported"
"war decks should last a week or two then end and have a cooldown of a week before any new ones can be started up again to prevent the constant wars. you can bribe concord to look the other way for a while, but not forever."
"also, one more thing i'd like to see changed. all these people who want ccp sanctioned arenas.if you want a tournament, set it up, simple. its not hard to secure a single nullsec system against small groups of griefers, if you have a little organization and some isk to spend. want ladders? write up a website. i am paying 4 bux a month for some pretty good hosting, and its robust enough to run a killboard, forum, and flash arcade off of.don't ask ccp to make things for us that we can make for ourselves. the fact that there are no arenas in eve is testament to the fact that no one really wants them, because it would be cake to set them up yourself if people did.if you think people do want them, then organize a tournament!"
"something high sec needs is something to fight over. most of the war or \"suicide gank pvp\" in high sec tends to be of the big fish eating little fish variety for no other reason than \"because we can\" and \"for the lolz\". this sort of thing lacks contextual value, it's meaningless pvp, violence for the sake of violence at times jokingly justified by \"profit motive\". people in high sec need a real reason to fight and the fights, despite the gank-bear whiners, need to be perceived as 'fair'.once upon a time people in high sec would fight over npc trade goods/routes, there used to be fights over mining and who cleared the belts. there used to be fights about who was going to live in this system or that. there were fights because of can art believe it or not.the other aspect is, fights need to seem fair, no small corp is going to reasonably stand up to a corp twice its age and size with neutral repping alts. it devolves into smack talk in local while one side or the other stays docked. wee.to the first issue, stuff to fight over, a few ideas.mining rights - perhaps the npc corp who has sov over a system, sells mining rights to each of the asteroid belts in an auction. only the owning corp can mine there at full yield. anyone else, in that belt will mine at 25% yield. a corp can war dec another corp with the goal of forcing a change of ownership. make these leases something that can be sold via contracts and traded in the trade window. it gives corps something to fight over and gives those npc corp mining bots a kick in the teeth.maybe dust and planets can have an impact here too, but will not speculate since ccp has hinted they may introduce player owned customs offices to high sec one day.station rights - perhaps allow a corp to \"buy\" a partnership with a station. that one corp gets a 50% discount on all npc taxes and fees at that station. only one corp may \"own\" this partnership at a time. this thing can be traded on contracts, let corps fight over it.the basic idea with these sort of thing is create some scarcity, not on a macro scale, but in the micro-scale.for the \"fair\" fight. this is a difficult balancing act, but perhaps some method of allowing a war dec to be declared as \"frig only\" or \"up to t1 cruisers\" only, depending on some metric that is measured, perhaps total sp/player ratio of a corp determines up to what types of ships can be used. i know it sounds goofy and anti-sandbox in some ways, but perhaps if small newish corps are not scared to death of war, they might have some fun with it.perhaps only corps that are in the same sp/player/age ranges can war dec one another/aggress in high sec.my goal here is not protect \"carebears\", but to give them reasons to fight, and give them a reasonable chance of being successful at it.necessity is the plea for every infringement of human freedom. it is the argument of tyrants; it is the creed of slaves. - william pitt"
"allow hi-sec outposts."
"+1i support rethinking the mission systemi support choice in/of missions.don<U+FFFD>t support the idea that a new mission system should attempt to make things harder on bots. (i<U+FFFD>m not a botter, just don<U+FFFD>t want to see them be the central focu"
"generally a good idea however i would suggest that the whole undercutting people for the rewards is not a good idea.i would prefer a system where say each mission is available for acceptance for a short period of time (10-20mins), anyone who accepts it in that time gets it. after that period the 'available mission' is replaced by a new one. therefore the missions could remain dynamic to the systems but the possibility of losing out to 0.01 mission iskers is removed."
"thanks for your support.let me elaborate on why i chose to come up with the \"undercutting\" option, though:- there will be players lurking in stations waiting for rare, desirable missions to spawn, and jump on them as soon as they appear.- they might even use bots to make sure they get the mission first.- undercutting would give more players a chance to get those missions.- bids would be placed secretly and the winner only be revealed at the end of the short time frame for undercutting. a 0.01 bidding war seems to be impossible that way.- only bidders that can cover the collateral would be considered.- collateral and limit on maximum amount of accepted missions as well as pentalty for failed/aborted missions would make griefing unlikely.- a simple layer of player vs. player competition would be introduced to missioneering.maybe this aspect makes more sense now. i'm willing to reconsider, though, if this part of the proposal remains consistently unsupported."
"well i see your points specially the one with that using the current keys would be faster. but this would make it possible to integrate voice with the current keys so while you are targeting you could say \"activate shields\" would make the process of issuing commands faster and another feature that would be cool is that while in a fleet if you were a squad commander with a squad and got engaged by a hostile fleet while the rest of your own fleet and the fc was in a different system and you could then issue the command \"establish video link to fleet commander\" while engaged in fighting....or eaven keep issuing orders and watching the battle after you got podded through camera drones or something..."
"stop ignoring our posts and start thinking.you keep saying its possible based on our negative feedback.we keep telling you possible or not... its incredibly foolish and outlandish.take the time to research the very product you hold dear so much... learn how it works...what it takes to get it to work.this is nothing more than one big fancy pipe dream that will take months upon months for even ccp to implement...and because of that very complexity it will never happen in the near future...doubtful even in distant terms.there are too many issues and too many bigger problems to take care of.the basic fact of this getting in the way of my ventrilo use or ts3 or mumble is a big problem.you keep ignoring the reasons and keep pressing in ignorance.i'm done here....this just became a sad troll thread.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"hey guys apple did a thing"
"it's entirely possible, in fact there are programs which will translate your voice into keystrokes. if you really want it that badly, google around, and bind yourself saying \"shields up\" to alt+1 - alt+2 (or whatever your shield hardener keys are).it is a nice gimmick, but as others have said, until we have computers capable of advanced speech processing an understanding (\"plot the fastest route to jita, avoid lowsec\"), using a keyboard and mouse for simple commands will be many times faster and more convenient."
"...hmm. no love for the rorqual?"
"solo play is available in many forms, as examples: exploration mining mission running bpo research, copying invention solo pvp (well, solo roaming) the possibilities are limited only by your imagination.if you want solo play a la bejewelled blitz, there's always facebook or steam."
"guys guys guys"
"except for exploration and solo pvp (which i'm not entirely sure is something you can make a career of), which of those offers, you know, excitement? you did forget trading, though, which i have found quite interesting.aren't they always. i can just sit in station and imagine all the things i'd like to do! ;)i suggest you try the multiplayer version of that, seeing that you have intimnate knowledge of both f'book and these games...sorry."
"currently you can only have one character training a skill at any one time.i propose that the concurrent training of characters be enabled such that of the three characters on each account:if 0 or 1 character has an active skill queue 'game time' is consumed at 1x real timeif 2 characters have an active skill queue 'game time' is consumed at 2x real timeif 3 characters have an active skill queue 'game time' is consumed at 3x real timeeach account has a certain amount of 'game time' remaining. a plex (and equivalent subscriptions) currently add 30 days of game time. however if a player was to run all queues on their characters this would reduce to 10 days.the main point of this is to allow players to invest small amounts on top of their subscription costs into the addition of new characters without having to run multiple accounts, this would not allow players to log into multiple characters from one account at one time as it is intended for temporary measures, eg investing one months worth of subscription into training a trading/mining/missioning alt."
"so, this is what... the 6th or 7th iteration of the \"lemme train multiple toons on the same acct at the same time\" thread in as many days? no."
"so for those of us who pay for our accounts..we get charged 2 to 3 times more?uh...hell no.go back into your cave please troll...shoo.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"an idea i woudl support is to have one skill queue per account, so that i could queue up training on my alts without having to switch to the currently training character and pause their training. as an alternative, having each character training at 1/n speed (1/2 if two characters are training, 1/3 for all three) might be a workable option. consuming \"game time\" faster is not an option.if you want to train other characters at the same time, simply use another account. it only costs 2 plex to shift the characters between accounts."
"agreed================ stop the evemail spam!"
"but the op's arguement that you all arent understanding is that that solution rwequires work and effort, which would be totally unfair to force op to do in a agme all about work and reward based on aforementioned work.at op: wanna train 2 characters at once? get 2 accounts. if not, deal with it, not everyone is a pretty little princess that get whatever they want, regardless of what your daddy told you."
"ok either you don't understand the words you read or you are browsing the board just to insult people. the post clearly states that a current subscription adds 30 days of game time. so if you only train one character (like you can at the moment) it costs exactly the same as what it does now. if you want to train multiple characters it costs the same as running concurrent accounts with these characters. the benefit of this system is not requiring a transfer fee for 'completed' alts and not requiring a start-up fee for the new accounts.as you are concerned of the costs, lets run this by you:atm the most efficient method of training an alt is:- create new account using a buddy invite from your main+21days training- subscribe for 1 month (equiv cost 1 plex)+ 30 days on second account, + 30 days primary account- transfer character to main account (equiv cost 2 plex)so you've shelled out the equivalent of 3 plex and got 81 days of training, rather than the 90 its 'worth'however under my suggestion to get the same amount of training you would:- 3 plex+ 90 days of trainingmy suggestion also has the benefiting of catering from fact that if a plan doesn't round exactly to a month you don't lose any training time you have paid for.also to the last obnoxious poster: i am posting from my trading alt, which is represented by a female character because some people presume the person controlling it is female and give better deals - weird but it works. and believe it or not i pay my own way in this game, like many of the more reasonable people here."
"more laser/missile dps ships!that is, ships that have both laser turret and launcher hardpoints (edited for clarity)i wants more whump whump to go with my pew pew...nuff said..."
"thanks for your support so far!"
"can't we just ban the name ccp on kugu for being such a terrible game company"
"turn ccp into an overused joke and i'll treat it the same way i treat u mad"
"u ccp ?"
"i actually requested this when the new forums went up. the answer i got was that ccp was afraid that kugu.com would be hosting some sort of browser exploits to hack into people's computers. seriously. i think it is stupid and petty of ccp, but i will ask again.csm 7 secretary csm 6 alternate delegate @two_step_eve on twitter my blog"
":ccp:"
":ccp: is literally ********"
"i can't even figure out how to change the reputation pips, and the original k is too busy banging his russian supermodel girlfriend to bother programming for the site."
"given the warning message i still get when clicking on an external link in these forums, that seems a tiny bit hypocritical.anyway, the horse has already bolted - tens of thousands of their customers visit the site anyway."
"free kugu etc. i dont read devblogs until they make it to kugu, funny how that works~"
"lolwut? well, i know ccp is dumb, but this dumb? kugu save us."
"probably has something to do with mula redirecting visitors to a malicious .swf file back in june. you can even find the old post on his forum he was like oh hai i was just testing for the lulz guys. btw i removed because otherwise google was going to flag my site as malware!!lulz"
"+1 to the free kugu campaign."
"thanks for your effort, i appreciate it."
"kugu brings a lot of customers to ccps side. free his name!"
"literally not what happened.[url]"
"this is ******* stupid of them...fyi i support this proposal"
"so... remote cyno?"
"sounds more like a wow mage player missing blink"
"came in here expecting a proposal for a \"suicide bomb\" that detonates as soon as you launch it... left disappointed."
"the game is set in the future we should be able to see outside the station on our screen in captains quarters."
"oh yes. better even, while sitting in the cantina. but you heard hilmar - they won't be investing much into wis anytime soon, and i don't think what you suggest can be implemented quick and easy like using assets they have lying around... :(still +1"
"rotating images of outside station, yes.live feed, **** no. can you imagine how bad the lag with jita 4-4 would be?i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"its been brought up before....at best perhaps an overview but looking out side? likely won't happen until wis comes out.i'm neutral on this topic.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"supported"
"supported only if points can keep you from docking"
"when you are in space, you are on server a. when you are docked, you are on server b. in both cases your chat works over server c. making you see outside the station technically means a dramatic increase in communication complexity between servers, especially fun for systems like jita.this is not some easy to implement thing, this has massive ramifications and requires a tremendous amount of work for a relatively minor feature (yeah i get it, your ship got esploded when you undocked into a bubble, right?)"
"i disagree. a \"window\" on the outside of the station would only require an amount of information on par with that sent to a single game client to be sent from server a to server b. all docked players on server b would then have access to this very stream of information broadcast by server b, again no more than what a single client in space requires. this would hardly impact on server a's workload, and given some smart programming shouldn't hurt the rather less challenged in-station server b.of course, there are no \"server a\" and \"server b\", but i believe there are nodes that work in a comparable way."
"so ccp is re-issuing a formerly \"unique\" ship poor pods could afford and giving them out as part of the power of 2 promotion. kinda screws anyone who got one... should there be policy on it? what's the difference between re-issuing the apotheosis and say the freki, or the utu, or any other unique ship?"
"while i understand your principle upset here, does it really matter? i suspect ccp devs were chatting and decided to pick a ship that mainly sits in hangers and isn't of strategic importance. would you be upset if they put an issuing limit on it to only include those from biomassed accounts? again i understand why in principle you are upset, but does it really matter here? if it were state raven, i'd get italways ... never ... forget to check your references. peace out zulu! hope you land well!"
"there's a massive difference between a re-skinned shuttle that was given out to everyone that was subbed at some point and a tournament prize assault frig of which there were only 50 ever in existence. there's a reason the freki/utu sell for more than 1000x what an apotheosis does. stop and think before you say something else stupid."
"i'm not saying there's not a big difference in what the ships are capable of or the methods of which they were originally acquired, but in principal they are the same in that they were unique ships. ultimately the value or a freki/utu has no bearing on how they were acquired or their performance capability, dose it? you said yourself in your argument that they are worth over 1000x (closer to 3000x) what an apotheosis is... whcih suggests your belief that price is valid criteria on which to judge this. if that's the case, than i am correct. the reason a freki costs more than a wolf is because it is unique. nothing more. scarcity gives it intrinsic value. otherwise, it's just another t2 frigate. the reason an apotheosis was selling for 20 mil last week and less than 10 this week is because of it's perceived scarcity and the loss of that perception due to the re-issue... otherwise it's simply a shuttle. maybe you should substantiate your arguments, mxzf... otherwise someone might thing you are stupid. i know i do."
"the principle that you are arguing on is \"ccp is making a unique ship that was issued free to every single account that was active, more common than it already is.\" think about what you are saying here. there are at least 200k apotheosis shuttles or zephyrs in existence, less losses. the market for them is small because those people collecting unique ships already have them.the only way that apotheosis or zeyphyrs are going to increase in value is if a large proportion of the people who already have them manage to lose them somehow.these token ships are not in the same category as utus and frekis. one set of ships are nigh ubiquitous, the other are very rare."
"well... that really to me seems to be a relative argument. my only contention would be that the shuttles value is based on market availability, and as that has declined their prices have risen. i'll even concede that there could be more than twice the number of them than you said there. you're saying that 'one is kinda rare and the other is really rare'... that's not a principled counterargument."
"its a shutle that no one ever undocks in, everyone who would ever buy one from anyone already has one. and besides looking pretty ahs no practical use what so ever.and it is to my knowledge the freki and utu were prizes for a tournament.your arguing 2 different things here.the shuttle is like a limited edition collector's buttons. they will be made and made again so long as the mold isnt broken.whereas there will only ever be as many 1987 (or whatever year was important) baseball world series trophies as were originally made, because the 1987 world series only happens once. the 1988 series may have a trophy, but it wont say 1987 on it, which is what determines the value.its not the always the rarity of it, but the significance of it, if it is a reward for a particluar event that only a few were able to receive, it will be infinitely more valuable then anything else because it cant eb re-released, because the event it was issued for has already happened and wont happen again."
"your obviously a noob.let me break it down.freki - hudnreds of billions of isk.some jovian shuttle - a few million.exaggeration on purpose.get it? got it? good.now go back to your cave. : o p(even then...its not worth that much in the first place)================ stop the evemail spam!"
"yes the freki is more significant and of higher value. it's unique in that it says vii on the hull. i happen to have one. the apotheosis has \"for you, children, on your fifth birthday\" in it's description, which apparently should be amended to say \"...and our random future promotions...\". someone should probably edit the eve wiki's statement \"as far as is known, the apotheosis is a \"limited-edition\" ship, in that it doesn't get replaced if destroyed, and there are no blueprints for manufacturing more of them.\" as well... i guess it's always ccps 5th birthday? i guess i'm too dumb to follow you here...1) clearly2) last one sold for 20 billion. got mine for 22 bil. just fyi3) 20mil+ last week, 8mil today. also fyi..."
"wha?market musta bottomed out...dayum. maybe i should start saving my iskies...thanks for the correction.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i was refering to small gang tactics....but even then...its alot of space to scan through.but yes...i do understand your getting at.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"i actually use cloaked ships very often. if you can't offer something constructive to the conversation please don't bother posting to it."
"i'm not saying this is a particularly effecient way at decloaking ships!!! but the rationale that a blast hits your ship and doesn't decloak it seems unlogical to me."
"it's usually because cloaky ships are paper thin... so rather than \"decloaked\" you get \"destroyed\""
"then what if the skins or graphic modifications can be applied to every ship of that class? for example, you might be able to have a raven with a modified look, then lose it and buy a new raven with the exact same look, but still with the ability to switch between original and modified look at will.just my cents."
"asking real money for basic customisation in a subscription based mmo would be an extremely greedy move on ccp's part.....oh wait... anyway, while i'd really love to have paint jobs (i wrote more than one proposal to that effect on the old forums), i'd never spend a single cent in rl money for that, much as i refuse to pay for incarna customisation. while i wouldn't have a problem if ccp decided to rise sub rates, i refuse to pay extra for anything that is absolutely standard mmo fare."
"this thread has too much talk about buying mods and ammo, and there is absolutely not supported.no matter how much i wanted to put scootaloo on my scimitar."
"allow me to buy paintgun for aurum. say i can can create animage - same way like corp logo. colors, symbols, etc. then i buy some paint bullets for aurum. and then i fly around shooting other peoples ships/poses/stations with this gun.sort of like graffity but space style. and make it unremovable. at least from ships."
"if i can't paint giant dongs on my enemies outposts permanently, eve isn't worth playing anymore make it anything player built/owned is permanently painted, and we have a deal."
"works fine for me...must be your brain not working"
"not cool.not cool at all. buy a new account spend some time in training and get uber rifter of doom. you wouldn't even need t2 guns to be better than any other rifter. this here looks like gold ammo to me."
"the cerebral accelerator only works on pilots under 35 days old. i haven't got a new account to test with, so i don't know if the 35 (or 30?) days relates to the age of the character or the account.sure, we'll see folks with frigates or destroyers doing 20% more damage than month-old characters should be able to. now have a look at your gunnery skills and check out how long it takes to train surgical strike 5 :)as long as ccp keep this offer as an irregular pot sweetener, we don't have to worry too much about nasty people creating super-powered disposable suicide ganking alts."
"they put this in the commissioned officer edition, and that's been out for a long time now.it lasts 35 days or until your first podding. hardly worth the price of a new account if it goes away on podding, surely?"
"while i'd agree on the \"not cool\" part, why is this thread in the assembly hall? general discussion or jita park would seem more suitable..."
"special offer for rich high sec gankers?"
"+1 for option 1"
"i do like wis and hope more comes out soon...but for a multiplayer game, being stuck in a prison cell does seem rather counterproductive.if they are going to have wis, they should have at least added some small semblance of multiplayer to it, ie. allowed us to invite a limited number of people to said prison cells to suffer with us.bouncing however...always a bonus however not something i'd deem as required...at least, not yet."
"i just think the two ships thing is awkward for new players. some more suitable alternatives to this could be allowing the 'mining frigates' to mount probe launchers alongside the 2 lasers, with a negative effect on probe capacity to prevent these ships becoming exploration vessels. or just make veld sites anomalies. however i suppose making them all sig's would cut down on botting.point taken."
"personally, don't see the need to change things from what they are.doing this would just mean people would need more characters or ships involved in mining operations.i know i'm not the only person that gets bored with probing things down, with mining boring enough as is, this would just kill it."
"a possible viable option may be:1. leave 0.8 thru 1.0 as they are. gives the newer players something to mine and those belts are fairly small anyway.2. move all ore and ice belts +0.7 down to lowest null to grav sites."
"how about system wide belts. you have to go to the star and there you run the on-board scanner, everyone has that and don't need skills to use it.this way we get dynamic belts, we get system wide \"ring\" belts that people have wanted for years, and we pull people to a common location where they can shoot each other.necessity is the plea for every infringement of human freedom. it is the argument of tyrants; it is the creed of slaves. - william pitt"
"supported if the mining ships could get a spare high for a probe launcher."
"three points:1. in the event of a pod kill, the reward should include the cost of lost clothing, etc. (i.e., anything lost in the pod kill). i for one would pay a lot more for a pod kill that included a monocle. also, i'd love to have a collection of monocle clad corpses.2. the actual cost of the clone involved in the pod kill should be used to calculate the reward. since the isk was spent already there is no way to game it and players regularly 'over clone'.3. podding yourself via self destruct (for instance, to escape wh space) should not result in any reward payment."
"for ships kills, why not just the ship values and not worry about all the ins and outs of the modules and cargo? the values are calculated quarterly already for insurance purposes. modules ... meh, does it really matter? the killer is going to scoop them and the victim will loose them.for pods, base it off the cost of the clone's sp retention level, that value is known too, why make t any more complex than that.necessity is the plea for every infringement of human freedom. it is the argument of tyrants; it is the creed of slaves. - william pitt"
"i don't think monocles, etc. are actually destroyed unless it's in your cargo, although i do think a monocled corpse would be awesome. clone cost could be derived from the actual clone used, but that's an extra bit of data to keep track of; and if for some reason someone did not buy a med clone it would result in no isk to the killer. (i could only see this happening in the case of player stupidity or as an alternative to biomassing a grief alt, for instance.) i didn't think about self-podding to travel, but that's an interesting consideration.well, i was going on the base value of destroyed modules/cargo only (dropped stuff is scoopable and wouldn't count) to make it worth blowing up someone in a rifter, as the base values would result in almost nothing for the killers, reducing the incentive to hunt.pods as stated i would just base on the retention threshold of the minimum clone used to cover sp. the implant value is in there as incentive to kill people with a head full of snakes.if destroyed module/implant/cargo value is removed from the equation, then the payouts become relatively tiny, disincentivizing bounty hunting to the point of not making it worthwhile, and keeping a 1b bounty on the character forever. it's a balance between overpaying (thus resulting in profit for an alt-suicide) and giving a bounty hunter the equivalent of a waiter's gratuity for his trouble."
"good pointsnecessity is the plea for every infringement of human freedom. it is the argument of tyrants; it is the creed of slaves. - william pitt"
"so you are taking away our ccp given right to be asses and grief people? i propose all noob ships be indestructible for the first 20 days of a new account. try grief them noobs now, smart asses"
"we have volunteer moderators coming soon!i'll sign up, but if they let me in i'll be viciously stripping the crap out of this forum.are you posting an idea for allowing multiple characters to train on the same account in assembly hall? banned for three years without warning! muhahaha!what? you think that's too severe? *sigh*"
"i won't flame you. i agree. this is a mess. i don't know why people can't get their forum topic in the right spot, but i let it slide for now because i am not a moderator in any form.volunteers you say..."
"quoted for truth. assembly hall should be more than: \"i was ganked and i didn't want to be. ccp make fix.\""
"yeah, i agree the forums are messed up but it's not just the assembly hall, most channels in each sub forum is messed up, either it has hardly no moderation at all or is heavily moderated.as for your statement - i believe action is required such as either strict moderation (possibly by the csm themselves?), education on how to properly peruse the subforum or both of them.no, i disagee to having the csm do any moderation at all. that would be placing control in the hands of biased players who have their own agenda. it's bad enough they get to decide which issues to bring up for discussion with ccp. don't need them having the power to lock threads or remove posted reply's.volunteers? maybe if chosen with a vote done by the general member population who usually frequents that specific sub forum."
"bump with csm agreeing"
"you are still not getting it .. it will not be optional but mandatory. the few loop-holes that may exist can only be used by english literates (like gtcs from 3rd party vendor) and are as such not even on the table .. that is unless you can provide a link to a vendor that offers verification in japanese. come spring, the only way that a japanese can play without having to deal with nexon is to buy plexes within game for isk and applying to account or learn english.as far as i know, the japanese player are not \"hard core\" like the oft mentioned korean and chinese but rather more casual so having to grind isk for subscription to avoid having to deal with an untrusted company will probably be a deal breaker.keep in mind the cultural differences here, being forced to deal with what is considered an \"evil\" company to get some good product will be flat out refused by the majority .. contrary to what we are accustomed to in the west where we will happily pester the devil to make a deal for more stuffz<U+FFFD>.by what i can gather, nexon only exists because there is no alternatives and they excel at catering to the baser aspects of human nature (read: lowest denominator) .."
"hello, cottoni have paid 180 day / $71.70 to the game. is the price about 5500 yen in case of the japanese yen? if an amount of money higher than this must be paid to nexon, i will stop a game."
"i always used a cc from a friend in the us, an then payed them back for it. or just use a jcb/visa."
"i am waiting for information. however, ccp does not give information. the mail about the fee collection of nexon is delivered only to some japanese players.it is said that mexon is restricted to a game magazine of japan, and fee collection is restricted to nexon point.(i want you to refer to it."
"i am trusting that v-rat isn't trolling us so, here goes.some of my thoughts. most/some have already been expressed but, here's my take on a few.1. ganking. working as intended, concord response times fine and the use of alts to pull concord away is a legit tactic as long as the gankers don't mind us using an alt to draw concord to the belt. we hisec folk need to be vigilant while mining/missioning, if not ... well ... enjoy the pod ride home. 2. ore/ice belts. move all the ore/ice belts in +0.7 and below to grav sites. new players can still get their feet wet in 0.8 and above. a side note to this is my response to many who think that all hisec miners are semi-afk, a large number of us who mine in hisec enjoy the social aspect and are actively chatting in our own channel or on voice.3. rr alts. cheesey move that needs to be addressed. we were wardec'd by a 1 man corp who would only undock with between 3 to 5 rr alts cycling thru repping him and docking for the next one to take over.4. carreer paths. i don't have much to add here as i jump between mining, mission running, exploration, invention/building and a little wh as the mood takes me.when i get board with one, i just move on to the next.5. rp (races). there is no value in what race you chose to be. i spent a great deal of time reading all the race descriptions etc before making my choice. and, it means exactly zero. perhaps a racial bonus of some flavor when you fly your race's ships or engage in an activity that your race is supposed to be predisposed to?6. pve. incursions are fine like they are. i would like more diversity/content in mission running. after rescuing that fricken damsel the 3rd time, i get board and don't run missions for a few weeks.enjoy. since moving back to hisec, i do enjoy the ability to change what i do based on mood at the time. considering my limited play time available, i enjoy what i can accomplish in the 2-3 hours i get. pisses me off. realistically, the only this that truely irritates me in hisec is some of the unrestricted chatting/smack in local. as i have grandchildren who like watching me play, it can get a bit problematic when the grandson asks me, \"grandpa, what's a f*ck-stick?\""
"quit whining about high-sec.srsly.everyone can take partake of the \"advantages\" of high-sec. if you choose not to then get over it.this is a game.high-sec is a lifestylenull-sec is a lifestyle. they are both choices.every civilization creates relatively safe havens for its citizens to do business. why should there be that much risk for people who chose more peaceful pursuits in what should be a much safer environment?just because you choose to throw away your ships like an addict smokes crack does not make ms buylow sellhigh a bad person for having a lot more money than you have just because she made the choice to not live a null-sec lifestyle and saved her isk.you are just looking for ways to make pirating easy because you are too lazy to take the time to make money the boring, peaceful way like the people you want to make it easier to steal from do. if you weren't you would have a toon in high-sec taking advantage of it and we wouldn't have a problem here.whoever heard of concentrating wealth in centers of civilization?...pretty much everyone. gee, there's more money in high-sec than null-sec. whoda thunkit?eve isn't a total sandbox and there are protected areas of civilization there just like in real life. high-sec doesn't need more pvp for the sake of pvp and it doesn't need pvp to create more risk for people who are trying to create money in the most risk-free way they can...can you imagine anyone wanting to make money in the most risk-free way they can? gosh.high-sec does not need any more risk. put a toon in high-sec and enjoy those advantages you keep crying about. it's not like any of you have been cut off. you chose your lifestyle.piracy shouldn't be that easy and the further into controlled space you get, the more difficult it should be.what eve needs is fewer players getting their feelings hurt because they spent all their money on crack and want the police to look the other way so they can mug someone for their wallet and more people willing to work for and save their money.not one of you has been cut off from the high-sec resources you whine about except by your choice.get a fresh diaper and go get a real job or shut up...:p"
"mara i am so sorry all that fine motor skill clicking is difficult for you ....... i understand everyone is not gifted with good hand eye coordination, thank you for reminding me to be more considerate of those who are not as lucky as i am. i do not get shaky jittery hands in a game lol. tbh i did not consider that fact hats off to you for playing despite this serious handicap and to ccp for making the game more playable for the nervous types amongst us, after all your type pay your subscription just like the rest of us. so having a crowd of other players to make you feel safer ingame works quite well with the lemming err cooperative scenarios ccp dictates. no individuality unless ccp has sanctioned it is your motto i presume. ps don't be so afraid it's a game."
"what forms of solo play have ccp removed from your repertoire?are you suggesting that the other options are only boring when done solo?"
"your second attempt at creating a straw man to bash will not work mara. i never said ccp removed any forms of solo play from my repertoire, i just clearly stated that your arguments as written in this thread were incorrect in saying ccp had removed functionality when the ship icons replaced the hangar. you can have your own opinion but we all must share the same facts."
"how about you tell us what the hell it is your after before you start pushing \"strawman counter arguments\" at people.because its quite obvious your just ranting to be ranting here...and no one has any idea what your getting at.and i do mean quite literally... no one.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"drake if you do not understand what i am talking about i can make two suggestions .... #1 reread the original post slowly and get your dictionary so you can learn the definitions of any words you don't know ..... being ignorant is nothing to be ashamed of ..... however it is a demerit to your publicly perceived intellectual capacity to berate someone because you lack the capacity to grasp a statement above your station. ...... #2 ask an adult in your home to read it an explain it to you."
"oh good grief.the simple fact is, functionality that people were used to was removed. whether or not there were alternate methods does not matter. functionality was removed.and there are a good number of players who have trouble with the right click menus, but play anyway. don't downplay their difficulties."
"i would not dream of arguing with someone so honest as to be a member of spazz corp. your self identification trumps any witty reply i could think of you win!"
"what does the corp have a history i don't know of.i mean sure my ceo is a little odd, but that makes those boring days waiting for someone to die outside jita entertaining,"
"now onto your original post.my view on the whole thing was a lot of people identified with their ship more than their... person. so when the ship was removed it was like they lost their character.another issue for some was the fail immersion (leaving the ship just to load ammo). ccp claimed (a long time ago, in this galaxy) eve to be a persistent universe, and that universe falls apart when things like that happen (for some players).as for completely abandoning incarna (temporarily maybe), i didn't ask for that. some did, others asked for a reprioritizing. well, ccp reprioritized, and we got to where we are.if this is in any relation to your op, good. if not... bummer."
"corina your statement has everything to do with my original post. ccp completely missed that so many people identified more with their ship then their character. seemingly as long as we could still undock and get shot at by other ships ccp thought everything was good. but players liked ship spinning. players liked viewing their ships from every angle an it had nothing at all to do with group play so ccp did not consider the impact because they discount solo play, seemingly. i just want them to consider that solo pleasures are good in eve not bad. some seem to think i should be podded for saying that .... let em try!"
"fine motor skills? straw men? people identifying with ships? wtf? maybe i'm too tired or something, but, reading page 2 of this thread several times, i simply have no idea what you're on about. are you sure you do?i can comment on this, however:in one word: yes!boredom is a constant companion for a solo player in eve, and while i cope rather well with that, many others don't or didn't. oh, sure, there is excitement, too, from time to time, but it's a trickle, not exactly a torrent. i'm in it mostly for the sheer promise that eve holds, and have been since 2004. paying for my account. updating my trade orders and training queue. hanging out in the noob corp channel offering advice. trying out a new scheme to profit on the markets. taking out a ship for a ride.it is *mostly* boring - don't try to tell me otherwise! ;)"
"highsec should be a pvp free zone. make ships unable to target each other in highsec. then if people want to pvp they can go to low or null. also boost the rewards so l4's pay out more."
"lol"
"yes please."
"so what your saynig is...spend plex to train faster.ok...maybe my response wasn't clear enough.h e l l n oclear enough for you?take it as you want...you can paint it up...make it look pretty...dress it up...but this is just a very poor troll.the day someone can spend money to acellerate their accounts in an unfair advantage is the day i flat quit.stop hiding it and come out with it...your lazy...and your tired of working for your hard earned sp's.buck up....or get out.================ stop the evemail spam!"
"errrr yeah! because, like, we don't have enough amarr and caldari ships as it is?"
"yeah...no...i mean boats with lasers and missiles...most of the current ones are better at tank than gank..."
"hmph. split-weapon-system ships tend to be suck... not sure why you'd want more of them."
"agreed about the sucking but the sucking is caused by the people who code them not by the people who use them.there is no principle that says one shouldn't mix weapons that have relatively equal range/optimal range because then there is a true sweet spot. two weapons systems with relatively same ranges and optimal ranges shouldn't suck so much in concert in the eve universe.it's not like i am asking for missiles that fire 5x scorch laser shots each at close range a la david weber/honor harrington although that could be cool...;)or missile pods from the same series...hmm...may be time for a new thread..."
"like to see more of this meself."
"actually, no. the main issue is that you end up having to fit both types of damage mods (bcus and heat sinks in this case), which means that neither one is as strong as it could be. while you're asking for this, you might want to suggest fitting ships with dual-tanks too, it's about as effective as dual-weapon systems."
"actually yes since ccp codes all this stuff and makes the decisions.i do understand what you mean, though.which leads to the obvious question: why have multiple hard point types on a vessel in the first place if they won't be reasonably supported by vessel design? just add the right bonuses.as far as the dual tank thing goes, well, all ships have shields and armor but i agree that having two half-assed tanks is not better than one good tank.again it's still just a matter of the bonuses not any inherent characteristic of the ships.this is a game, remember? humans write and code it...;)"
"just think he will test malicious .swf file on his good friend shamis and other pl member who he begs for money, what is he going to do to his enemies? don't forget he cracked over 650 goon ts/forum accounts back when remedial was ceo!"
"kugu need to be free and all, but not at the expense of having every pubbie that ever lived hear about it and now want to go visit and try their hand at ~goodposting~"
"thankfully the top-notch moderation team is there to stop thahahahahaha \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"except it wasn't malicious, and pl directors (the supposed targets) have said as much."
"doesn't look like it is going to happen, from the responses i got from ccp. i will ask them to clearly state what the *current* problem is with kugu.com in this thread or something.csm 7 secretary csm 6 alternate delegate @two_step_eve on twitter my blog"
"tell that hacker to change the name of his website. problem solved."
"the website is filtered as is any other website which promotes eula violating activities or engages in the distribution of malware once we become aware of it. it will remain so."
"then i expect you will list and describe those violations.since you have chosen to describe our site as one which \"promotes eula violating activities\" or \"engages in the distribution of malware\" you can explain how we have done so and how you came by that information.if you wish to treat our site as a dangerous one, you can remedy this by warning the large number of eve players who visit our site.you can also warn the csm members who visit our site that they are, as you describe it, in some form of danger.because making spurious comments about our site and the safety of those who visit it is unacceptable.making these comments and then failing to act on your information, or allowing us to defend ourselves and challenge your claims are also unacceptable.you are either failing to properly protect your subscribers or you are maintaining a vendetta against our site."
"not a single comment was spurious and nothing is going to change from a filtering perspective. i'm sorry you disagree."
"please, link evidence to the distribution of malware along with anything else.this is simply ccp trying to hide a piece of its past that they don't like."
"has ccp contacted law enforcement regarding this distribution of malware? if not, why not?what happens in lowsec, stays in lowsec, lowering the barrier to entry to lowsec pvp:"
"instances of malware have been admitted to within this very thread. this thread is over as far as i'm concerned and i've already told you that the site will remain filtered in perpetuity. that's not changing based on my own observations."
"so i'll go with my previous point, then.thanks for clearing that up."
"look ma i use big words"
"oh, really?"
"you guys are aware that any site that has google ads on it, and is related to eve, is probably going to end up with ads for eula violating activities, are you not? guess this means that they have to filter 50% of the internet"
"anyone who posts on kugu should have thier account flagged for investigation to check they aren't involved in any nefarious activities such as account sharing, botting, hate crimes and people smuggling. if you guys want to discuss politics, news or anything else to do with eve there is a great site i highly recommend called evenews24.com. it is pretty unbiased and you can even write up your own stories which riverini will publish! also the site is completely free from malware and password aren't saved in plain text format."
"am i late to the party? free kuguand can i have foreplay please?"
"ahahahahahahseriously, as far as i know, kugu is the only site that is filtered here. \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"uh what??i don't get it? can you just warp like everyone else? or die if you get too close to your own bomb?"
"the bomb would only jump your stealth bomber sir."
"never played wow. i'm games workshop warhammer , but it's just as you put it, thank you. only the duration of the blink is determined by the bombs flight time/speed."
"it's not a warp, it's a jump that lands you 40k-ish away from the fight ( or gets you closer/kills ya). bomb doesn't deal dmg but when it goes off it instantly jumps your stealth bomber in that spot."
"thx"
"if you are getting caught in the blast radius of your own bomb, you definitely don't know how to properly employ them. considering you can launch from around 30km and put your target right in the center of the blast, and considering how slow bombs travel, you have more than enough time to pull up and maneuver away from the blast.you are definitely doing something wrong.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"so your proposing a \"blink\" function (i'm thinking starcraft2 now lol) for the stealthbomber? hmm.... would be interesting. not sure if want."
"this is why i stick to wardeccing corporations and not going for alliances. simply put, they can't escape...which means more ransoms for me but to be honest, i like how things are now. no need to change anything really."
"+1.we should be able to \"board the station\" just as if it were a ship. we can use our overview, look around etc. we can't do anything, can't fit any modules. would seem the simplest thing to code.necessity is the plea for every infringement of human freed"
"in order for you to see outside (in any useful manner, ie showing what you will undock to) would require the internal of the station to be on the same node as the external. that means that for every person docked, a cq would be loaded onto the server along with the external station environment. so imagine the lag of a few hundred cqs running all at once.please, think of the hamsters."
"sorry, i hate hamsters."
"this. supported, but reduce lag by making it an 'opt-in' option rather then an 'opt-out' one: if everyone in-station is looking out of the station while in it, that is more lag-worthy then if they had an option to 'virtually undock' as the station. that latter would basically be identical to undocking normally, in terms of server utilization; with the exception that the player would neither actually undock, nor have any ability to do anything outside the station.that said... once a 'look outside' feature is implemented on the station, it's only a short hop to turn that into a 'man station defenses' option to let people shoot at pesky invaders. i extra support adding extra (destructible) defenses to nullsec outposts, which can be manned by people who are docked at the outpost."
"support of the idea .... the board the station option that engages the overview seems the best. seems inconsistent that i can see a planet view and control my pi without creating massive lag while in jita but seeing an overview from inside the station is not possible. this is a good functional feature for the cq!"
"the resources to see what is really outside the station would be far too much to make it worthwhile.that being said, a \"static\" variant with things flying outside would be good. ie. a fake view of outside. so what you see from inside is not what is really out there."
"what's with this automatic assumption of lag?now, i can see there being automatic lag if there was, for instance, a window in the cq that did nothing but give you a realtime image of what you could see outside the station from whatever vantage point... but if it was, instead, a function that worked like boarding the station, it would produce no more lag then having another ship in system... less, really, since you're not actually adding another ship to the system, you're just looking at the immediate area around the station as if you were a ship in-system. since that would only apply when people choose to look around outside the station, the impact on server performance would be minimal... and would, in any event, be less then the lag caused by someone undocking in a shuttle or whatever to do nothing but peek around outside the station before redocking... which is currently the action that this functionality would replace."
"the effects of adding even a simple static view of the undock and transitioning the data to the docked station environment from the system environment and then down the pipe to the client to be rendered would have astronomical effects on latency. and thats not even thinking about how client-side performance would be effected by having to render the station environment or cq plus the exterior environment plus ship models and turret models (assuming drone models are disabled and effects are turned down to a bare minimum)."
"this would be worst in jita ... perhaps the station charges a fee, 10,000 isk per minute.necessity is the plea for every infringement of human freedom. it is the argument of tyrants; it is the creed of slaves. - william pitt"
"-1 for nowlets fix fis first."
"so why have a cloaking skill at all? super special jita runs? not supported... again and again and again."
"smartbombs don't decloak?good to know."
"bubbles don't decloak ships, so why should smartbombs? when you consider a bubble is nothing more than a massive gravity well. drones orbitting several ships do a better job of decloaking a ship, especially when utilized in tandem with fast ships such as interceptors.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"revisit the megathron model. alot of us like the old one better, for one it had nicer looking windows.now that hybrids are getting a fix, would be nice to get to fly the classic megathron, like literally.it still amazes me that megathrons are not really an option if you want to compete with other roaming fleets, and actually get a winvote: hell yes"
"the old model had awesome lights on it indeed, also it looked sleeker and seems to be missing the thingy on the left far side of the ship."
"*bump*@trebor, vile: you posted your support for this - how are you planning to proceed?thing is, not much discussion is forthcoming since interested parties are mostly in agreement that this would be a good thing, and no discussion means the issue will be lost in oblivion (page 2 of the hall) soon."
"i've already pointed people to the thread. if it gets a few more pages of discussion, i'll push harder.one issue is that it's a \"game design\" proposal, ie: a specific change proposal as opposed to \"fix bounties\". certain people inside ccp hate such direct \"do this, dumbasses\" proposals."
"it's infeasible to detail every rule in the tos."
"it is listed in the tos. item #16[/quote]just because you don't know every rule, doesn't mean every possible thing needs to be listed. it is your responsibility to find out, and there are multiple ways which take just a couple of minutes.try explaining to a judge irl that you didn't know what you did was wrong. they will just laugh and watch you rot in a small cell."
"a noob just starting the game is clueless about agro mechanics. so neither would they steal ore to bait people, nor would they even have much skills to do it.they might assume it is imposable to steal other players loot in space, what other major mmo after all has free looting?a player who flips cans deliberately and is in gank ship, knows how to play game, and is not starting out. they may try it on noobs or experienced players, but if they do it on noobs in obvious starter system they face punishment.no problems here."
"1. can flipping is a part of the game so it wouldnt fall under that rule to begin with.2. irl if the law doesnt specifically deny you the ability to do something then you have the right to do it. the tos is the legal agreement not the wiki so in front of a judge i would be just fine.read what i said for once and you would understand i am not against having it a rule, i am against the fact it isn't listed in the obvious place for bannable offenses to be listed.actually that is exactly why eula's and tos's are created"
"exactly what i was on about... ;)if we put it to a vote, we already know how those tend to turn out - we might as well just hand moderation to the csm......in fact, letting them moderate would force them to openly show their colours. either they make a good job of it or they will likely face outrage and then intervention by ccp, no?"
"part of the problem is that ah is treated as an un-moderated area to promote free discussion on topics regarding the eve universe without the fear the ccp will/would ever lock a thread simply because they disagreed with a proposal or if someone was vehemently flamed and counter-flamed in the process of a proposal.however, in its current state, ah is a cacophony of uselessness. people rarely are using the forum search functions (on chribba's site or the new, much better one on these new forums) to research if an idea has been presented or not. they also think this is a free forum to whine and gripe about issues that are...well...stupid.i'm very supportive of bringing the hammer down on ah and turning it into a proper discussion forum for creative, well-thought-out ideas for the eve universe. let ideas survive the horrors of the f&i subforum or be well-crafted rather than the other garbage that tends to make it here. start locking and removing threads that shouldn't be in ah or are just blatant trolls."
"so it seems ccp has decided to hand over their japanese player base to a shady 3rd party collector. it would be interesting to see if you could actually use 3rd party gtc sellers instead of nexon. however from what i saw the only exemption is in game plex. ccp's motto: if it isn't broken, break it. if it is broken, ignore it. improving npe<U+FFFD>/ dynamic new eden"
"+1 it would take a bit more trouble, but how about also highlighting orders from corp or alliance mates as well? then you could see if you are competing with a mate and make some sort of agreement."
"null sec sucks. plain and simple.-i don't like being meatshield #1572314. -i don't like all the good spawned belts and sites being reserved for ceo's and friends.-i don't like having to haul all of my stuff out there myself, one ship at a time.-i don't like seeing all the manufacturing slots reserved for privileged alliance members.-i don't like seeing non pvp operations halted indefinitely by an afk pilot in local. (i don't care, but apparently everyone else is too spooked).-i don't like being told to sod off because i'm not flying the \"correct\" ship into battle with the \"correct\" fittings. (who the f*** turns away the only available dictor pilot for a roving op? seriously)-on the flipside, i don't like getting scolded for not participating enough in battles.-i don't like being tossed aside and considered useless when supercaps enter the field (and they always do).-i don't like going on 8+ hour roving gangs only to catch a single pilot flying a t1 cruiser at a gate.-i don't like having to go ten to fifteen jumps away from our 0.0 home just to rat as all nearby belts are saturated with fellow alliance mates.-i don't like being told that pi in our 0.0 home is reserved for privileged individuals only.a lot of drastic changes would be necessary to get me back out in 0.0. it's just not worth it.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"im going to draw first a parallel, so please be patient :). a while ago i used to play a game called carrionfields, a text based, medieval mmo, very player killer oriented. one of the classes in there was the thief. it had the ability to hide from most characters and be in the same room with them, remain undetected. was weak in actual direct combat, but had one exceptionally powerful but very limited ability. the ability to backstab, which gave the thief one strike with huge damage potential, about 50 times more powerful than normal attacks...which for a thief were anemic. it could only be performed if the thief or its target was not currently fighting, meaning, engaged in direct combat (behing the target of other attacks). the damage level depended greatly on the skill of the thief, the weapon used, and the status of the target (sleeping, sitting, standing). the backstab could also not be used if used if the target had been in a fight less than 2 minutes before or was below 70% health. this ability gave the thief a fighting chance at winning a fight against a superior opponent if properly prepared. on rare occasions (random), on very high level, highly skilled thieves (perfect backstab skill), the backstab was so powerful that it rendered the target immobile, making it unable to flee for 20 seconds.an idea came to me and i was thinking maybe we could have something similar in eve for recons, providing for class/game balance issues of course.ive been playing eve for 3 years now and what i see are the same abilities, being more or less swapped between different ships, with a few exceptions. im going to focus only on recons now. imho i do not think that their abilities, short of being able to cloak, refect their covert/black ops role. all of them get across the board bonuses, 80% of which are valid for 15 other ships. i think that gunships, like rapier and arazu need a specific ability, available to nobody else, which reflects their covert ability. atm, recons do not really have abilities which are inherent to the stealth class and that nobody else can have, t3 included. most current abilities are not representative of their covert, sneaky, backstabbing surprise attacking class. even if they get the drop on someone they are extremely fragile in combat with anyone except the uber short range gallente ships, and those have drones. so here is what im suggesting. 1. create a skill called first strike which would be valid for only recons and black ops. a highly skill intensive, ship class role specific, powerful yet difficult to use well, and potentially very taxing for recons. 2. skill injection requirements would be recons v, surgical strike iv, t2 guns, sharpshooter v, gunnery v.3. skill description - the ability of a recon ship to deliver critical strike, a very powerful, extremely precise, first volley against its target, when it first uncloaks. this strike either hits or misses. so make sure you are at optimal with your guns. does not apply to missiles. when perfect this skill becomes exceptionally powerful.4.recons would have this particular button on their hud, when pressed it tries to perform the strike using its main gun group. trying to shoot non grouped guns will only count the first fired weapon in the damage.5. skill specifics: <U+FFFD> does not work on other recons, covert ops unless their speed is below 50% of max. (i guess indicating a certain level of relaxation (rp wise) on the part of the pilot :p<U+FFFD> 50% damage per skill level, for shot fired when uncloaking. must use gun group for perfect unison and max damage. training this to 5 would be exceedingly important for actual damage.<U+FFFD> initially drains 25% of your capacitor total capacitor when it fires. then 5% reduction in critical strike cap use per level.<U+FFFD> 20% chance of doing 20% damage to your guns and the whole high rack. both chances decrease 5% per level of skill. <U+FFFD> random chance to cause 70% damage to a single non passive module on another of your racks. this chance decreases by 5% per skill level.<U+FFFD> uses 15 liquid ozone consumption per attempt<U+FFFD> only valid for guns, not missiles.<U+FFFD> cooldown: 5 minutes<U+FFFD> minimum capacitor required: 85%<U+FFFD> level 5 skill can, very low random chance, result in potentially crippling damage to the enemy ship. 50% damage to all the modules of a random rack on ships of equal or smaller size. 25% chance of damage on some random number of modules of bc, bs size ships. excluding cap ships. this means that the target will be in trouble if he needs to overheat his those modules too long.a pilot, in order to take advantage of this ability would have to fit his ship to be able to do this most effectively. not doing so will probably not result in much success. conditions of use (part of description):1. cannot target cannot be in combat and be shot at, directly or by drones. its ok if its in combat and does not having anyone shooting at it. if you attempt crit strike, you will get a msg which says that a critical strike cannot be performed as the target is already in combat and wary of impeding attacks.2. cannot be performed if target is at lower than 50% of its total hp. trying to hit it while its hurt, you get: critical strike cannot be performed as the target has recently been in combat and is wary...3. cannot be done if the target locks and attacks you first. this would have to be a valid attack, not a frigate shooting its blasters at you when you are 30k away....and getting the missing msg.basically this cannot be used as an alpha strike for fleet battles, more of a surgical procedure. a ship that can do this well needs to be fitted for this purpose, needs to lock very very fast and pick the right moment. frigates, your most favored and vulnerable targets can lock and attack you first 90% of the time unless they are distracted. anyway...thoughts?"
"kinda long in getting your point across, but i'll bite:i like the general idea of it, but how would you go about balancing this? after all, this is an ability nobody can really do anything about. it's potential for ganking would seem to be enormous! there'd have to be more of a counter-measure against this."
"yeah, sorry, had to make a detailed description.a significant detriment to the attack is the targeting. as he will most likely need to use a passive targeting module to prevent auto-targeting from ruining his surprise. this may compromise his ability engage in lasting combat. a rapier, with max skills and rigs can lock a target in something like 7 seconds from uncloaking. thats plenty of time for a cruiser, hack or frig to lock it first and shoot, if its paying attention. if not, well, he should die as the target, the first thing would be to watch the range and try to either:1. get enough transversal so they cant track you, if it uncloaks at long range. long range uncloak means artillery strike or rails.2. most of the time you should be able to lock it before it locks you due to decloak delay + locking time. a close range decloak would most likely mean autocannons or blasters. at this range most frigates can lock and shoot, before the recon can. unless a passive targeting system is used. so have to watch for that.3. if you are a recon, cov ops, black ops, keep your speed up if you think you may get hit.4. pay attention to overview!5. there should be no skill or ability which will save/protect you by default. it should require some action on your part such as adjusting speed, direction, paying attention, not relying on auto-targeting, etc. you, actually doing something.6. keep moving, dont camp if there is a rapier or arazu around.this is what i can think off the top of my head. it would not be hard to protect against it just have to pay attention.sort of like uber neut dominix. nothing you can do except keep away from it."
"where to start with a guy who is scared to post on his main account..rofl. refer to my post in the test thread please. i cannot be bothered to repeat myself.who has more isk? :lol: the vast majority of the wealthiest players on eve reside in null-sec. how do you figure high-sec carebears have more isk?pirating easy? piracy is fun, but definitely not benefitial enough for my taste sunshine. unlss you can find me people to gank and ransom that will pay me 10b overall. unfortunately for me my tastes involve cute little ships such as: command ships, black ops ships, supercarriers, etc. so no. pirating isnt profitable enough for me. i do it from time to time cause its fun.okay, i personally own 75b which resides in high sec. why? cause i collect stuff. what does my isk do? where is the majority of my isk for everyday playing spent? you probably guessed wrong so i will tell you in nullsec. who would have thought that huh? ship supplying and mod supplying in our nullsec? not possible! understand the concept that the vast majority of the isk in the economy comes from mission spammers, who run missions allllll day long and make maybe 100m for 16 hours of mission running. guess what i can make by running two sites? you guessed it. 100m. a site that takes a total of 25 minutes. really? where? before you say america, please look at the crime rate and murder rate in the us. the us gets attacked from inside. so, **** your idea of a utopia.cut mission rewards to 1/5 of what they are and remove anothing above the 1st stage sansha incursion systems while cutting the rewards for that down to 1/8th of what they are. remove 80% of astroid belts and remove ice belts from high sec. restrict pos's to one per corporation in high sec. then you can have your perfect utopia. with a utopia comes very limited restrictions.with a perfect world being ran by drone military to keep horrible things from happening comes massive reprocussions in real life. look at china.it's not. you have to properly fit your ship for what you are doing.why you mad bro?blah blah blah.i work on helicopters for the us government. i train people to work on them while working on them. i've saved and taken lives. what have you done besides helping your mother from having overpressurized milk dispensers?"
"i'd say sick burn but i think you are silly.posting on an alt in eve?sounds like good business to me.no one cares if you can't be bothered repeat yourself...you aren't that important, sunshine.so what if null-sec does have more isk? i didn't guess anything, i only went from what a lot of folks whine about.if null-sec has more money that supports the idea of leaving high-sec alone.your 75b wow gee that's great. really. not relevant but cool. okay not really, sunshine.in america and other countries people are incarcerated, fined and executed for doing what eve players do all the time...it's not about utopia it's about not allowing people to run amok wherever they feel like it whenever they feel like it, sunshineso you don't want to run the missions or make use of high-sec resources, i get that, sunshine.it's sad that you equate not allowing people too run amok wherever and whenever they want as utopian...look at china.i am happy for you that you work on helicopters for the government . while i obviously can't deny it, in my experience as a veteran most folks talk little about action they have seen, much less try to impress a stranger with it especially when it is irrelevant to a conversation. in my experience that usually happens because they are trying to bolster their confidence in themselves and self-importance and more often than not it isn't even true.true or not, it is irrelevant and in any case i apologize for not being impressed, sunshine,never said i was mad, sunshine, you did when you spent most of the post talking about yourself instead of what i posted.thanks for sharing though.just saying leave high-sec alone."
"i bottle fed you a troll and yet this is all that is provided for a troll? bah. i'll have to go feed the goons to make up for this waste of time."
"op: obvious troll is obvious.i would endorse some changes though, not a drastic overhaul.eve is fundamentally a pvp oriented game. yes, its tough, its nasty, its down right cruel at times. but stick at it, persevere, and you'll feel a sense of achievement.because of this orientation. there 'should' be an incentive to go into the lawless depths of space on some lucrative venture, with all the risk that comes with it. however, with current mechanics there are no incentives to do so.higher level missions pay too much. (i was talking about this with a corp mate, and the idea of a different branch of frig/cruiser/battleship missions with higher payouts in low/null could be an idea.)incursions pay way too much too. i would also suggest further changes to incursions, but that would be for another thread.stations, and undocking radius (to be honest, this needs addressed across board, not just your utopian hisec)agression mechanics (again, across board)yup, your perfect world is fine. i can only find a few things i'd tweak. its not as if i would turn the entirety of eve into 0.0 space... though i think that'd be pretty damn fun for a while. just lol.. that's certainly bio worthy material!"
"yes, yes we noticed you. run along now."
"totally disagree with this proposal.make hi sec your boring version of utopia and you watch the subscriptions plummet. why make isk just for the sake of it? this is not bankers and accountants in space you know?"
"i tries making one already :p no one replied, then again no one trolled me. i think on these forums that's the equivalent of a resounding applause."
"so yeah,some people want to be peaceful industrialists, (or not so peaceful, hello bdaddy warbucks). governments and militaries like this. wars cost money that could be used to buy more toys. better to allow folks to do business in relative peace. they pay more taxes and protest less.plenty of countries used to pay good prize money for ships and equipment back in the day, btw. there's a lot of \"just make it a little less profitable\" going around, which means it's not really a serious problem is it?the \"make it a lot less profitable\" is just plain silly. there's a reason most companies try not to have their main operations centers in war zones and various illicit enterprises launder their money through companies with operations in safer places. why do people keep bringing up economics when they have access to the same resources? there's lots of money in eve. what you are asking for is ludicrous:however you seek to accomplish it getting everyone to move out of manhattan to bed-stuy would eventually result in bed-stuy being the next manhattan...complete with npc military and police while the peaceful industrialists make moneyyou just don't like peaceful industrialists having npc protection and you want to make it easier to mug them. yeah, hooray for the \"px ranger\"..."
"so they can rmt it, obviously!"
"because we can't buy plex with real money and sell it for in game cash, amirite?..."
"oh look yet another perfect world/utopia parrot...braaawk!!!like the real world we live in is such a perfect world...utopia my ass...sovereign nations don't allow people to just run amok amongst them. it's bad for their powerbase. why do you keep asking for it? there is a reason life is safer in the us and in europe rather than most parts of africa.eve culture is based on multi-planetary nations with regular militaries and police forces. in these sorts of cultures there will be very safe places and there will be banks and accountants and industrialists and business people in space. some of your fellow players are doing it right now...check your skills list, the business skills are there, really. true story.who says everyone sits on their money, but if they want to, who are you to tell them otherwise? mind your own damn business. you like spending ships like crack? that's your problem...go to a clinic or a null-secanon meeting and get some help...you volunteered to go live in 0.0. quit crying...what you really want is to make all of space like the back alleys of a william gibson novel. (except that those back alleys are often very tightly controlled by very nasty people. you can't always run amok in there either.)humans won't put up with that crap if they don't have to so it's silly to expect eve culture to be different than that, especially given their size, and even more silly to expect you should be able to do the equivalent of dogfighting over the dc/md/va area of the us with live ammo just because you feel like it or because people are making money instead of spending it on ships like addicts spend it on crack.you already have null-sec to do exactly what you want...why be so greedy?if the grass really is greener in high-sec then why don't you operate in high-sec?\"because we can't easily be ganker pirates in high-sec...braaawk!!!\"that's the point of high-sec...hello, mcfly...are subscriptions plummeting now? not last i checked, but why blame high-sec if they were? according to many folks, pvp players are the driving force in eve and have the most influence on the subscription base. if so then the null-seccers can clearly communicate to those new players where to go for a good fight in 0.0, yes? if there is not that much control over the subscriber base, perhaps it's because not everyone wants to play in the wild, wild, west of null-sec...shocking to even consider, i know this my null-sec friends but perhaps it is so.if the hardcore pvp 0.0 players really are the core of this game and high-sec is as irrelevant and non-influential as so many of them say...then why keep trying to change it? leave it alone and go play in 0.0. plenty of space for everyone.otherwise this smacks of naughty, selfish children trying to steal another child's candybar just because that child saved money to buy that candy bar rather than steal it.wait a sec...that is what is happening!!!making high-sec like null-sec just gives you more null-sec...and you clearly aren't satisfied with null-sec so why are you trying to create more of it?go ahead and get yourself a wet navy and sail up to any major sovereign nation in the world and open fire and see what happens to you. what you really seem to want is to say \"hey there russia/uk/us, um yeah, we think you guys have too much money and resources so we, um, want to assault your citizens, and um, destroy some of their stuff, and um, steal some of their stuff...is that okay?\" and get \"yeah sure, no problem\" as an answer.if i smoked i would definitely want some of what a bunch of 0.0 seem to be smoking. it's apparently outrageously good $#!t!..."
"look at how silly you are"
"here's a cookie!thx for the bump!"
"my experience with eve has been that the things that are boring when solo also tend to be boring when in groups. it's the groups that make the game interesting: mixing with other people in an mmo is what the game is all about, after all"
"that may be true for you. i tend to enjoy this mmo for other reasons. one is for the permanence of it. what happens in eve happens for real in a way - nobody can just reload the game, undo or unsay their mistakes. there is no other new eden cluster to move to if i screw up in this one. for a game, that is refreshingly meaningful.the other reason is i enjoy the life other people bring to this game, just as i can enjoy the goings-on in a crowded park downtown, even though none of the people are my friends. now, i'm not drawn to seek them out and get to know them - i have friends already. no way i'm going to do that on the net. some acquaintances, maybe, but i wouldn't want to feel obliged to them and i'd feel bad if they counted on me in any way.i'm rather happy about how the latter turns out for me - lots of drama here. not so content about the first - much of what i'd like to do there is terribly boring."
"i am a regular poster on \"the website that should not be named\" and the recent comments by ccp concern me. can you tell me what the odds are of my account being hacked, hard drive being destroyed, identity being stolen, etc.it seems illogical that ccp would be aware of illegal activities and cyber threats to their clients and take no action beyond not talking about it.tl;dr: tell us what the threat is or stop being little bitches about a guy whos actions led to the csm being created and other aspects of eve we enjoy today."
"/agree my concern is that double standards are being practiced when it comes to censorship. which is directly alienating a certain community group, you would think that if the security issues where already known by ccp and are apparent enough to warrant continual censorship, that some form of warning would be given to the player base. i mean it is one of the largest eve based community forums after all.ccp's motto: if it isn't broken, break it. if it is broken, ignore it. improving npe / dynamic new eden"
"k.com is simply a place where people can discuss eve politics. it is a place away from eve-o and allows some people to hide their identity and post under an alias. as far as i've seen there is no eula violations, or threads promoting it. i see people posting about ****-posters and such, however there are 2 forum sections dedicated to keep those two apart.\"eve online uncensored\"where people can troll and do whatever without ridicule (within reason)\"serious discussion\"where those who like to talk serious, and discuss a certain topic without trolls and slanderous posting.k.com is very mis-presented in the general eve population, and i believe a lot of it comes purely from ccp's view on it.whether or not it has anything about the t20 incident or not, ask yourself, if the site was named anything else, could you honestly say it would still be censored?"
"off topic part removed, ccp phantom.edit: because if such allegations are true, well gg no re for me good sirs."
"it's actually really upsetting that i can so easily type kugutsumen.every other piece of forum software fixed this kind of thing like ten years ago.at this point i am more concerned about my security when posting here than i am at kugutsumen."
"haha, really?kugu is blocked for eula violations but eve-bot slips by? and of course evenews was really public about their botting reports, even asking ccp for comments on it. on kugu most of the threads with botting references have 2 kinds of posts: those who dislike botting with a passion, and those who are ambivelant and see it as something for ccp to deal with as they will."
"just freaking un-censor the name and get it over with."
"so does a fansite have to be regestered to be a fansite?i assume all non-official fansites and eve related forum (the eve section on reddit?) and any website that is not an official fansite is automatically blocked by the great and benevolent filter on this forums... also all fansites on that list were blocked before they made it on the list...btw, google shows botting / isk adsblock google.also, botting / isk ads show up on most / all websites using google ads at some point, despite the owners requesting them to not show such ads (such as on chribba's sites at some points)isk ad shown once, block block block...also, malware, really? why is the site still up? ohwai- ccp is full of ****.also, what the **** ccp, how is evenews24 not blocked yet? they just posted a ******* guide on how to bot.and yet, somehow, kugutsumen is still blocked because it encourages eula violations... point to the location in the ******* eula!!tldr: ccp is full of ****edit:bolded the unprofessional lazy part where you did not delete the spammer's posts (and, quite reasonably, provide a temporary ban to the spammer) and killed a thread that actually had some discussion going on because the developer in question responding to the community's questions was providing poor answers and nothing to back them up...smooth..."
"or remove concordonked insurance, buff concord and up the hp on indys and miners."
"that would at least deal with the 'neutral rr' problem ^^"
"some people should just never be allowed to post"
"worst attempt so far today. must try harder."
"sorry for the delay in my reply. the main goal was to remove the mechanic where null sec empires are forced to pay concord/high sec empires for the right to hold space and replace it with a mechanic that would also add strategic topography to null sec. i was really worried about over taxing players that are responsible for refueling everything as well. i imagined the batteries having enough power to drive a structure for at least 24 hours, and each structure would hold many days worth of batteries. this should decrease the amount of logistics i would hope. thanks for the questions and comments."
"allow, same account characters to be defined as 'hench(wo)men', a publicly know assistant to character.henchmen would have their own training queue and pickup a percentage of the training points a character trains.the henchmen can only train a skill already known to the main and only to a level below the main."
"^^ think someone's bored of scaps in space and is looking for a forum ban."
"mhmm."
"split weapons systems gank the ships and skilling for them, ask the matarammar got it right in one weapon system for each ship, almost allways lasers (though could have a few more missile boats mixed in, one at every ship size class)"
"again this is designer/developer choice not a reality of physical limitations.i am asking ccp to make different choices."
"then it should be remarkably easy for you to point them out.you wouldn't look so bad if the argument you were using didn't boil down to \"we're still mad at them but won't officially say so because that would somehow make us look worse than we already do on this subject.\" i would think better of ccp if kugutsu men was no longer censored."
"oh god, that's the worst reasoning lie ever.let's test with a site that is one of the first in a search for eve hacks:"
"it's not an argument or really even a subject that's up for discussion. i'm informing you why it's staying this way. how you feel i look is irrelevant."
"thanks for pointing that out buddy i'll have it added forthwith. :edit: the reason it's not is likely that most people know better than to try to link it. something that doesn't appear to be the case with the site in question."
"if this site was new to you, then you're bad at your job."
"because people don't normally go to k.com with \"i'm going to find amazing new ways to violate the eve eula!!!\" in mind. \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"i'm genuinely not trolling when i ask this, but how broad is ccp's definition of 'promoting eula violation'...?you see, i couldn't care less about whether or not k.com is censored here - i visit once in a while to get the inside scoop on certain things, but considering another site i visit (mostly for laughs) -- eve news 24 doesn't appear to be censored, at all, but in articles like 'rise of the machines', tells eve players, in effect - here's how to bot, here's the best software to use, and here's how not to get caught... ccp sreegs, read this, and please tell me if it constitutes 'promotion'"
"censorship of any kind is the death of free speech."
"i eagerly await the censorship of en24 for promoting eula violations as well."
"the reason kugutsu men is verboten is because [censored] [censored] the [censored] and [censored]."
"there's no \"free speech\" on a privately operated forum. the argument is that censoring the name of a popular third-party eve site is petty and it hardly has anything to do with \"eula violations.\" \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"free fhc!"
"i understand the argument, but i don't understand why anything is censored on here. what one finds offensive, others find perfectly acceptable.if individuals are linking malicious sites, they should be dealt with, but besides that, i don't understand by we should ever see ***************'s all over the place. i know what they meant, and, if anything, it draws focus to the fact that it was \"profane\" instead of my eyes rolling right over an otherwise harmless word.instead of pushing for one specific thing to be uncensored, there should be a push for complete un-censorship, or, at the very least, an option on our end to disable it."
"suck that viking dj suck it long and good."
"a"
"r"
"i"
"u"
"s"
"j"
"o"
"h"
"n"
"s"
"o"
"n"
"says"
"i like viking ****"
"oh god, i love you manny"
"manny with the most compelling argument ittsreegs you're really a butte, i wouldn't have thought you of all people would come out with that argument. you're beyond mentally handicapped."
"at fanfest sreegs was one of the devs on my pub crawl.he drank half the bottle of brennevin himself that was supposed to be for the players, and then threw it all up as soon as we got off the bus but before we even got to the first pub.reading his arguments for why kugu is banned kind of reminds me of that time i watched him vomit in the bushes."
"**** the establishment"
"m for manfreddai travel to k.com to read about the happenings in the eve universe. from what i've read as a regular denizen on the subject of eula is when people accuse others (like pl) of hacks when its really legitimate spaceship business. really, k.com is an eve comedy site.free k.comfree fhc"
"that was probably a worse devpost than zulu trying to tell us $70 monocles were okay because of super designer jeans.and you were doing so well, ccp. don't backslide now."
"i'm just going to go ahead and declare the last two pages a cultural victory."
"#occupye-o"
"sreegs is on the wrong side of history"
"sellout scrub deepthroating that viking itt"
"sreegs must have realized making blanket statements and not being able to back them up is a bad idea."
"\"sreegs\" the noise i make after looking at lemonparty"
"i thought this violated the new corporate model of openness and understanding"
"he didn't get the memo i guess"
"hey sreegs, i'm pretty sure i can dig up some old kugu posts that you made. probably having to do with eula violations too.that'd be pretty awkward, huh?"
"the viking lotion spray washes all sins away."
"it's ccp's game, and ccp's forums, so ccp can ban whoever and whatever it wants from these forums for any reason, or for no reason at all. if you don't like it, there are plenty of other eve-related forums out there. they gave us an explanation for why k.com is filtered, and told us that this will not change. so whining about it and trying to demand that the filter be changed is rather silly, unless all you're looking for is attention. and to all the trolls: i don't think that preventing people from linking to k.com is good, but that's not up to me to decide. and if a customer wants to throw a hissy fit and quit a game because he can't make links to one particular site on that game's forums, than he probably doesn't want to play that game anyway, right?"
"you sir, are an idiot."
"i wish badposting would get you banned, your head would be the first on the chopping block \"it's easy to speak for the silent majority. they rarely object to what you put into their mouths.\" - abrazzar"
"here's the thing: it goes against everything in hilmars letter, not to mention the real reason it's filtered is because ccp wants to try to hide and reduce the credibility of the guy who outed t20 and caused one of the largest scandles ccp has suffered. so now to find a way to throw the scent away, they send in resident new ****** sreegs to tell us its for breaking the eula, when clearly half a dozen other major eve related sites that are not in fact filtered promote botting produce what is in all practicality a guide to botting or use adds for sites that sell isk. none of these are things our website does, yet this is what they choose to throw as a reason, sounds fishy to me."
"this makes absolutely no sense to me.if all of these people are and have been mad about censorship of a fan site for this game, why would these people not want to play this game? is that like saying \"if you don't like the rules of this country you can move to mexico?\""
"you must have been outside smoking when the playerbase revolted and forced ccp to make many promises regarding fixing stuff and winter. the game, and all that is related to it, belong to us now. ccp lives or dies at the whim of the playerbase.so perhaps they should have renounced their bizarre, antagonistic pronouncements? perhaps, just maybe, they should humble themselves a little? perhaps even condescend to share their reasoning!"
"because it's the forum eve deserves, but not the one permitted by pr shame. so we'll censor him because he can take it. because he's not our hero. he's a silent guardian, a watchful protector. a dark k."
"players game players forums we already proven that. in the past 120 days we have commanded ccp take pants off head and do what we want. screegs is our security female dog he will do what we want.screegs you will do it with a smile and kiss my boots while he is at."
"f that, mexico is where nrom gustav lives. i'd never move there."
"you deserve more rep than i can give you here."
"you are pretty boss nigerian i support this well said m8."
"@darius johnson: how are you part of the 80% idgi"
"because he protects us from the karttoon menace"
"i mean jesus, who the hell even remembers t20 anymore? most of the people posting on this forum, most of the people actually playing eve, aren't old enough to do so.we're talking four-five years in the past, you icelandic nitwits. nobody cares anymore. get the hell over yourselves and uncensor the name already."
"i, for one, am against all madminning at ccp"
"screegs the only thing were hacking over at k.com is your bad poasting. the only malware we know of is the hat were gonna send you to cover that ever increasing bald head."
"posting for support.also, when ccp announced layoffs i honestly thought darius would be gone too for the ****** securtiy of the forums. huh."
"darius johnson in a lokta.org presentation \"becoming all the madmin you can be\""
"kugus is terrrrrrible.that being said it shouldn't be banned.page 12 snipa"
"two of these things are bad. one is correct. i will give you one ccp like point despite being 2/3 wrong in your posting.edit: and with that act of charity i am going to bed. and despite sleeping i will continue to occupy e-o"
"t20 a ccp developer employed in the iceland office. a ccp employee who spawned t2 bpo's and gave out insider information to the alliance band of brothers giving them a in-game advantage over other players. a advantage wielded at a peaceful gaming community made up of members of somethingawful.com. mulla nasrudin aka k ugutsumen through diligance and effort exposed this employee abuse. in typical corporation nutbaggery ccp tried to cover it up and shoot the messanger. going as far as censoring the name of the whistle blower himself.darius johnson a prominent top goon worked hand in hand with mulla and openly supported his actions helping to swan such terms such as band of developers. that very same s hit c unt now works for ccp. the very same ccp sreegs who has capitulated to viking corporate f aggotry and embraced all that is bad with ccp.you sir are judged as a inept bald little man and this hazing will not stop till you embace righteous light. your sword cannot match my pen and i will scribble you from the darkest spot of your cubicle."
"occupy ccpfree k.comfree oppression of the 99 percent by the 1percent of eve, ccp!#occp images"
"shitposters unite!"
"i was absolutely certain this was the worst dev post ever. but then you went and upped the ante:bravo!another pr disaster in the making. and you, darious, completely deserve what's coming. doesn't anyone, you know, vet dev posts of potentially delicate nature before letting guys like you post?"
"d"
"a"
"r"
"i"
"u"
"s"
"j"
"o"
"h"
"n"
"s"
"o"
"n"
"ouo am i kawaii* kuguu~*kawaii is japanese for cute."
"the eve story of a anakin like manchild being manipulated by the darkside vikings transforming him into :madmin"
"the rebels of a fine poasting establishment k.com fight to return order and balance."
"hey manny remember that time you pissed off the russians and then jumped ship to pl and then you posted a bunch of one letter replies and ccp deleted them tomorrow."
"remember that time when a pubbie like me didn't have to threadnaught ccp because goons would already do it?"
"nope i'm a regd11ps free kugu you used to be cool sreegs.pps i assume"
"let's assume for the sake of argument that this is absolutely, 100% true. (at least regarding intent; it's patently not true that websites which promote eula-violating activities are censored, when sites like eve news 24 even still get *featured*. bearing in mind that i'm an intermittent reader of k.com and i've never seen anyone promoting eula-violating activities; i've seen someone complain about having been banned from the game for botting, and that person received a general reaction from other posters of: \"haha, serves you right.\")at this particular juncture of the evolution of eve and ccp, that shouldn't matter.ccp is currently struggling to regain goodwill and a respectable public image after a spectacular pr cluster-fubar - one that has, for various reasons, reminded a lot of people of the t20 scandal.the t20 scandal was actually the first time i ever heard of eve online. i didn't know anyone who played it, and yet, because my friends are gamers, we were talking about how there turns out to be some kind of spaceships mmo where the gms cheat in favour of particular groups of players and how terrible they must be and how much we didn't ever want to play that game because clearly it was a pile of suck from the top down.i didn't start playing until 2010, and the only reason i did was that the mittani mentioned in his column at ten ton hammer that ccp had improved. that was enough to get me to try the game, at least, and i found i liked it.but here we are, four years later, and k the man is still banned and k.com is censored on the forums.this gives an awfully strong impression that ccp are still angry that they got caught, still resenting that it's harder for them to cheat.we players aren't supposed to cheat. (i personally do not, and never have, and never would.) i fully support ccp's efforts to stop players cheating.but i struggle to have faith that ccp are anywhere near as dedicated to keeping *themselves* from cheating, which sucks, because i want to have that faith. there's a number of gms and devs who post on the forums who i totally fangirl. i want to squeal and put posters of guard and shadow on my wall. i don't want them, or anyone they work with, to be dishonest in eve.but as far as i can tell, it is, and remains, ccp's collective position that anyone who exposes cheating amongst the gms and/or developers of eve will be persona non grata forever. that it is the exposure, not the cheating, that made ccp angry.that, right there, is a problem, and the only way to fix it is to let the censorship pass."
"the path of the righteous poaster is beset on all sides by the iniquities of the selfish and the tyranny of evil dev's. plus repped is he who, in the name of charity and good will, shepherds the inept through the valley of terrible forums, for he is truly his brother's keeper and the finder of lost pubbies. and i will strike down upon thee with great vengeance and furious anger those who would attempt to poison and destroy my k ugutsumen. and you will know my name is manny when i lay my baddrunkpoasting upon thee."
">make overly vague and general accusations that could be used against 1/2 of the :kugu: internet>act high and mighty against a genuine olive branch>be screegstalk about pr disaster \"eve community website gets the :kugu: off from ccp\""
"you are aware he runs his site as a business, and correct me if i'm wrong but isn't making baseless accusations which can harm a business some form of actionable offense?i mean, i'm not a lawyer, but i'm pretty sure you can't make claims against someones livelyhood like that without proof, and not get your ass sued off in court.who knows, i could be wrong."
"so why wasn't sreegs part of the 20%?"
"the only terrible things on kugs are posters like you. should stick to your blog tbh."
"free kugu"
"i was not really interested in this whole discussion but the dev label on it peeked my interest.way to pr, sreegs. your posts in this thread gotta be the most jackass ccp posting i ever read.and, after reading through the whole discussion, censoring a fairly active community website with accusations that you seem to have trouble backing up? really? get over yourself and just unban it."
"ccp if it weren't for k.com and the participants of that message board i would have quit eve long ago. after \"18 months\" \"fearless\" and a myriad of other mis-steps by ccp there was nothing in eve to hold my attention. k.com offers a extension to the interaction of in-game activities. these forums and the previous version have been so heavily censored for years. this leaves little room for actual discussion and the fun banter rabble rabble and downright cultivation of drama that drives players to want to login. k.com is a asset to ccp whether you will admit it or not. ccp ceo has openly stated the council of stellar mangement has been a positive thing for eve. without the efforts and whistle blowing of k.com's creator the csm would have never came to light. furthermore that same player body has served in positive capacity to assist you in catering to your clients and aattracting/retaining subs which is the very life blood of your organization. in reality you owe mulla nasrudin aka kugutsumen a thank you for he has done so much to impact ccp in a positive manner. your repeated denial and censorship of k.com is a metaphore in itself for the dark days of ccp one that your ceo so avidly and publicly stated you have learned from and will not repeat."
"i've never heard of this forum/website/community before and always wondered if there was a different forum that people went to to post things for eve. after reading all of this thread, i agree that removing the censorship would be a good thing. it happened 4 years ago... and like someone said earlier, the owner makes his lively hood of the website and removing traffic is like taking away his paycheck. it looks like a good forum anyway... free kugu."
"post of the year. hands down."
"ccp should carry on with the censorship just to continue the sheer amount of tears that are being generated:)"
"qft"
"this thread is a gold mine for them."
"one more for the good fight againt ccp."
"here comes the threadnaught... (i won't bother reminding you of eve's most recent pr incident)"
"wow so few people care about this it takes one guy spamming single character posts to try and turn it into a threadnaught."
"i was going to jump in and defend ccp since there are without doubt plenty of posts on k.com that encourage botting and client modification. but after reading this thread and the above list in particular i'd say just uncensor them. applying censorship selectively is worse than having none at all.also the video of sreegs snorting lines of some kind of cheese sauce is seriously wtfi expect i'll spend more time browsing those forums if there's more gems like that."
"i wanted to reiterate what i said, in light of ccps response."
"the site in question is not a registered fansite. all registered and approved fansites can be found here.please note that the assembly hall is not a venue for threads to be spammed just to get attention and this one will be locked."
"supported."
"this has probably been brought up before, and if it was recently feel free to troll (harder then you already will, this is eve we are talking about). but could we get a dislike column?pros: can see how many dislikes there are of something people new to the forum will no longer glance and assume reply count - like count = dislike count one person can't post over and over to skew the numbers, even bitter vets have to parse though pages and pages to figure out how much of the non liked replies are no votes, or if there is just a lot of discussion on the topic with the ability for people to like without replying now it means that the closest thing you have to go in is the amount of views the thread has, since those are not unique views (this is an assumption) the amount of dislike for a proposal is also not really parseable from there either. cons: will take up real estate, invariably meaning one of the other columns will have to shrink pixel wise.i know that you can actually have more likes then replies now but that doesn't seem to happen too much"
"supported"
"i support this proposal."
"supported."
"if you want dislikes and lack of moderation, head over to that famous third party forum.over here, keep it civil. even bitter vets can tell which posts are worth reading and which aren't. pity you can't tell which posts are worth posting :)"
"not supported at all - this way lies e-bullying. also, neither likes nor dislikes give much indication for the support of a proposal/issue. they might refer to any posting in a thread, not the proposal itself. i'd strongly prefer to have the old \"support\" option back, along with possibly a \"not supported\" option to show things in perspective."
"using normal dps bombs is not an issue. the blink bomb would serve as a defensive maneuvre. for instance you have a swarm of frigs in point range and you may choose to drop a dps bomb on them or use the blink bomb and have a change of escaping/moving in a suitable spot to drop a dps bomb, quickly using the cloak after the jump."
"k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen"
"your logic is flawed here, they paid to wardec you when 10 other people did. to get out of the dec should only cost base price as it was not your choice to get in the war"
"like undocking just without a ship. (undock bay view)station spinning redefinedhowever if some form of station view would be implemented the 30s undock godmode should be removed at the same time.(i basically +1 any attempt to kill station games and bring fights to the open space)"
"+1the idea of looking outside has been proposed before, but this take on it might actually be feasible."
"k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen k ugutsumen"
"or if the # of people increases while the # of ships remains the same.i guess i am no one then. also, from this argument it would seem you dislike that they are re-releasing these ships."
"im sorry i never made a new list, its been on the back burner as the winter release is going to hit many of these issues. \o/"
"supported"
"i support bouncing boobies!"
"this."
"friendly bump."
"1.0"
"+1 if only trial accs - do it ccp and i would remove them after 6 months to be honest"
"supported, usual caveat of old trial accounts only. non-trial accounts, obviously, have worthwhile stuff, and have paid for the privilege of keeping their account info active in the system."
"... srsly? \"fix bounties\" gets more attention than a specific mathematical system?so much for the module value database query i was tossing together..."
"great idea! i like it. seems to be easy in both, working in game and designing it for the game. i too would prefer something that factors in killrights (and probably skills, to make a true profession out of it) but with regard to simplicity i very much accept this proposal."
"i can see locator agents becoming more and more popular already."
"i'm not saying that at all. i was just saying that people shouldn't deliberately do it to noobs who don't know what's going on to begin with. if you want to try something like that with me, a player who's been around for a few years and knows how aggression works, that's fine. but doing the same kind of thing to a noob who still hasn't gotten around to leaving the system they started in (and possibly doesn't even know how) is a different matter."
"so you want a tos that looks like this?i think not!btw, that is the vehicle code for the state i live in. just because a person doesn't know every word in it does not mean you won't get screwed over if you break the rules!ignorance is no excuse!"
"not that they can read anyway"
"actually the eula already does look like that. guess what isn't there...you got it, can flipping people in rookie systems."
"probably because there's no reason for anyone to be in a rookie system after the first few days, so apparently ccp didn't think it was necessary to write this in the eula/tos.but going by the strict word of the tos, doucheswarm would be banned. they gank people in high-sec, which prevents the ganked people from enjoying the game, which is forbidden by the eula/tos."
"actually there are plenty of reasons to be in a rookie system, they have belts just like every other system, they have stations just like every other system. they have agents just like every other system. in fact a rookie system is exactly like every other 1.0 system with only 1 exception...people start there. maybe you should actually read the rules yourself before commenting because as the game rules state ganking in highsec is allowed. quit being a troll."
"ccp annoy me with crap like this. if they dont like something, then bloody change it. stop people being able to do it then ffs!basically dont allow cargo to cargo exchanges then! its not hard.."
"seconded, if only so that i can create an army of indestructible noob ships."
"that right there is enough to tell me that if ccp states a rule on any website then it is a rule to be followed. common sense says the eve wiki counts. that was #6. numbers 25 and 26 state the following... break the rules and get busted...you would lose in court since can flipping is against the rules set forth by ccp. if you failed to read the rules then how is that the fault of ccp?"
"there is a bit in the eula (or tos can't remember) about ccp being able to cancel your account for any reason.this is covered under that."
"what bothers me about it is the blanket protection given to new players in that they can ignore the warnings given for opening cans and it's somehow the fault of others if they take a bait can (no, i don't can bait noobs). if ccp wants to protect new players, they should institute aggro immunity and prevent can flipping for new players inside of rookie systems. limit it to 5-7 days and add in a tutorial that explains what those things are and that they go on outside the rookie systems and you'll have protected noobs without the gms having to warn people who don't know it's against the hidden rules (if it's not in the tos or eula as a rule, it's hidden)."
"+1bring back the old confirmation dialog. there was no reason to remove this feature. and while you're at it, increase the number of max saved fits. 50 isn't enough."
"1.0"
"i would support this topic...but i don't have a support button!(fyi for the mentally ******** that means i am in favor of support/opposed buttons)"
"you are welcome to manly \"like\" me for now."
"the idea of using the \"like\" button to determine whether a thread/idea is good or bad is not a good design choice.i get it, you want the forums to be more like facebook, that's fine. however for the sake of actually being able to tally up the total number of supports vs. dissents there really should be a support and opposed button available for us.and no, not just a support button, because that doesn't give a complete picture either. both."
"i support for both buttons, for a more usable and informative assembly hall."
"we do indeed need to clean up the halls of assembly.have poorly thought out threads locked, for being poorly thought out ( yay for the redundant department of redundancy)have csm **** fits either locked to moved to the jita park center.people who come here whining about how they lost their ship and its all those evil gankers fault and that high-sec should be a no pvpzone - tell them to shuttup, then lock their thread. ( i'm really sick of those people)remove troll threads and post (possible putting a 24 hour ban on the poster?? )ah needs to be a place of good ideas and constructive criticism and polite ways to tell them to **** off.and have eve devs offer their opinion on various topics and ask tough questions, if they have the time to moderate all my post, they have the time to look over these proposed ideas."
"enslave a ccl into this forum when they're picked and you should see a sharp decrease in the number of these things popping up. dust 514's cpm 1 iron wolf saber eve mail me about dust 514 issues."
"+1 supporting moderation."
"most of you would probably agree that it isn't very important, but when i started playing eve i noticed these problems immediately and now that ccp has decided to make what they have better instead of making new things i think this, the warp effect, the cyno effect, and many more things need to be reworked and modernized.yes it is just a shiny... but without the shiny we'd just have a spreadsheet, and without the spreadsheet we'd have a movie.let's mix the two together to recreate eve online the way it should be, no more cutting corners."
"bump again"
"ummmm... how can i say this nicely? hell noooo!!!!!!"
"bump. i'm still not sexy."
"i mean, cmon people! this is like, the future and stuff! this is space! a guy should be able to wear a dress! there is nothing wrong with this!"
"amarr men already have dresses..."
"also possibly assless chaps and a cowboy hat."
"with a face like that, being pretty is the least of your problems.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"assless chaps would probably sell better than the monocle even at 20k aur +1"
"is there any other kind of chaps?"
"to be frank, i dont know, i am neither gay nor a cowboy and have never seen brokeback mountain..."
"so... you like chaps in chaps?summary of eves last four expansions:"
"+1.this change would be welcome, as i have experienced the (slightly absurd) situation of running an entire constellation in 0.0 out of fusion m, while not being able to rectify that without help from a more senior corp member, which required days/weeks t"
"+1no reason this shouldn't already exist. would love to see this implemented."
"supported, that would indeed be quite convenient."
"i think the biggest problem is war decs mechanics.wars are not slug fests like they used to be. all it really is, is station camping with a ton neutral rr. i have not seen one wardec corp operate w/o neutral rr.other than that. there is nothing really wrong with high sec maybe a few tweeks.incursions - they are going good, the pilots provide the bpc's and meta capital modules to 0.0 counterparts who refuse to do incursions. maybe a small isk reward roll back.standings - some pilots made mistakes years ago while missioning and need a better way to raise standings with enemy factions.more epic arcs needed.removal of insurance for people who high sec gank.missioning - would like to see a tougher ai in level 4's.oh and also, there is nothing wrong with mining in high sec. goons have proven already what happens if you cut off the ice flow in high sec. if it really needs to be changed. change the refine amounts not the belts."
"just bumping this as it needs to be seen.low sec does in fact need love.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"looks good."
"i feel obligated to help keep this idea toward the top as it needs the exposure and attention.especially since it would add new facets to the game that would help motivate new players to try their hand at low sec, and maybe keep some of them out there. and maybe, just maybe, it'd help bring in new players, or some of the old players that had left for some time.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"i really like this idea.+1"
"i have no support for this proposal. cool idea, but it has to many things that could go wrong during game play. besides, i rather ccp do something about lag and improve the features that we already have in the game. plus i hate to see ccp commit people to this program and it fail. people could get laid off from ccp for a failed project. the last thing i want to see is ccp fail on their game because they focused on a unimportant issue in the game with their time and resources. i love the game to much."
"otherkin use dragon speaking. what do normals do?"
"i think this is a cool idea. i have a couple of suggestions:no offense, but \"knife in the dark\" sounds like something you'd find in wow, not eve. perhaps something more simple (ccp's preferred style, it seems) and call it \"surprise\"?additionally, i think that this should be mandatory that the recon ship firing the shot have all weapons grouped, to \"ensure optimal linking of all sensors\". finally, the recon ship should have to be completely stationary. this means that you're generally going against targets, as you said, who are distracted and aren't doing much. you would have to pick a target who is just sitting there. it makes sense that to make a perfect shot, you would want no movement in your ship. i think that there should be a \"first strike computer\" that is loaded onto the ship, taking up a high slot. this module, when activated, links all of your guns. it gives you a 50% reduction in targeting time. it requires that you are not moving when activated, nor can you move while it is activated. additionally, it prevents you from cloaking for 5 minutes after use of the module, with this being reduced 10% for each level of the \"surprise\" skill. this would add a unique skillset and tactic in this game, which i agree is needed."
"two things. first, this is eve, not d&d, i don't think that we really need the theif's backstab in eve, i don't think it'll really add anything worthwhile to do this.second, if you're looking for a \"line up for the perfect shot, uncloak and fire, run away screaming before you get killed\", you're thinking of stealth bombers, which already do that quite nicely."
"no. just no.from now on when you have a horrible idea, write it down on paper, crumple it up, and throw it away and spare us the blatant stupidity.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"we also need some more healing spells. guardians should be able to cast divine intervention and heal the entire fleet."
"please take your thieves and elves and backstabbing with actual weapons and never post about them again.in all fairness, what you've described sounds so unlike a spaceship game that i can definitely say it will never happen."
"flavour is off, name is definitely off. concept needs work, but isn't entirely bad... i could see a high-slot module that uses an 'ambush tactics' skill or some such to add a short damage-related buff immediately after decloaking. for balance reasons, it shouldn't be the kind of massive alpha gank you seem to be advocating, but it could work. idea not supported in it's current form, but it's not intrinsically horrible."
"i dont really see any valid objections, ballance, concept related as to how this would be overpowered or indefensible or what have you. basically the odd troll. \"no, just no\"...\"horrible idea.\"...\"healing spells.\" i take you dont like anything short of theblob!i dont know if you guys know this, but with tanks, in ww2, surprise ambush was actually widely praticed and it still is today. in ww2 against the tiger 2 tank, had to take it by surprise, hit it from the top or from behind. would be very hard to kill, once it saw you and was positioning itself, and spinning its main gun to absorb max damage with its front or lateral armor. once it was aware of the danger, knowing its own vulnerable points, it would protect them. it would be facing you making you shoot its front plating or spin the body around to position itself with buildings or obstacles at its rear.it still is true for pretty much any military operation or army, surprise is the first thing you look for in war. in eve it doesnt exist because the fittings and shields and armor are what they are and no matter who shoots you or when its still the same from any direction and in any conditions...imho thats messed up. but i guess thats too much to grasp for some.anyway....keep trolling, thanks!"
"im not looking for a perfect shot before anyone can hurt me. plenty would get plenty of time to kill the recon, just have to pay attention!"
"um, you are not making much sense. actual weapons? what actual weapons? ever hear about a sniper bullet hitting you through the windshield before you even hear the shot or have the chance to duck? sooo aaaanyway...."
"i would like this more a ship property than a module, inherent to a certain ship class or ship. i have not run the numbers much, the 50% is just there to be there. the bonus would have to be significant enough to warrant all the possible damage and risk to the shooter."
"not suporte4d inaf already with **** loud off tiefs so with its hard to catch in corps, wie dont need eny ader un til first not fixed."
"against it being a 'ship property', since nothing in eve works that way. covert ops ships can't become invisible on their own, they fit a cloaking device. dreadnoughts don't have some kind of a siege ability, they fit a siege module. the rorqual, despite being designed especially for the unique action of ore compression, does not have that as a special ability, it fits an industrial core.particularly since recon ships already exist, it'd be bad to simply add a 'ship property' that just happens; you'd want an ambush targeting system or some such; which would be an actual module you plug into a ship, and which, when active, cycles only after decloaking to give a buff to turret damage. that way, you might fit it to any covert-type ship... or, indeed, any ship capable of fitting a cloaking device, as tastes differ... but specific ships would have a specific bonus to using that specific module, and that's fine, that's how the game works."
"you want more damage? it's called overloading a weapon system.train thermodynamics, get damage hardwires and use boosters.i am the one who exists in shadow. i am the devil your parents warned you about."
"isn't this just s stealth bomber?"
"not the same thing, obviously."
"no, its not."
"i disagree, some ships get 90% web speed bonus, others get 60% web range. those are not modules, they are ship properties."
"...what, webs aren't modules now?a bonus to web range is an ability that only affects an active web module on your ship. a bonus to turret rate of fire is the same thing. a toggleable, short-duration ambush bonus associated, not with the active use of a cloaking device, but with the deactivation of one? nothing remotely similar.i could see there being some kind of hislot targeting system that could only work if you toggle it on while cloaked, and which would cycle once on decloaking... but trying to implement or represent such a bonus in a non-module sense would offer no clear way to indicate when the bonus was and was not active, and would be radically different from every other bonus in the game."
"the ability is the bonus or whatever and the module is the web. in my suggestion, the module is the weapon, the bonus is the critical strike.why would something have to be indicated as active or not? its not clear whether you will hit every shot or not, its random given certain parameters. my suggestion would work only given certain conditions are met. there are many things in that you dont know will work, without any clear indication of success or failure until its done, such as invention. hitting your target is another, you dont know if you will hit until you actually fire. in this however, you can may succeed or fail, if he locks you first or shoots your target first, it wont work. its pretty simple. people are making it far more complicated than it needs to be."
"okay... that's a very unusual sort of nonstandard bonus with no correlation to any of the usual sorts of bonuses, no way of tracking it, and no real reason to exist in the way it does. there's no reason to add lots of extra work to the development like that for no reason.not supported under those mechanics."
"yes, it is unusual for what eve currently has. its up to the dev team to decide if they wish to go this route or not. eve currently has about 20-30 different bonuses/properties which are spread across all the ships. all the ships revolve around the same bonuses...gun damage, gun rof, gun cap use, rep bonus, resistance bonus, etc. i figured it was maybe a good idea to think out of the box a bit. it would have a correlation to the class of ship. it doesnt need to have a correlation to any other bonuses. what do you mean tracking it?what reason is there for any bonus to exist? they exist to differentiate between ships in some way or other. the current system does this well but it does not really transcend a basic level of differentiation, it does not push the envelope so to speak. you know pretty much what each ship is capable of doing and 90% of the time i can guess the fit on every single ship i fight. it is rare that a ship surprises me these days. thats kind of ...bleh."
"uh... what? there are lots of weird bonuses out there that are dissimilar to everything else. the rorqual's industrial core can crunch ore down to smaller size, cyno modules create warp points for cap ships, gang links are only usable on a handful of ships, smartbombs are entirely different from any other weapon system, and so on. in every case, note that they're represented by a module, and the bonus is not a bonus to the ship, but a bonus to the module, when fitted to the ship.more interesting bonuses would be nice, yes... but like all bonuses in eve, they'd be represented by modules."
"so is this one, by guns. this is basically a gun bonus modified by the ship's class."
"i don't want to give myself a cookie..."
"as far as im concerned if you sign up for war then its at your own risk and you understand the consequences of doing that. people are talking about more highsec pvp, well remove the militia boundary restrictions and open up high sec.npcs such as navies and corporations that have a military arm should also still shoot the enemy too, but be kill-able, like normal npcs providing even more content for players.this is effectively signing up for consensual combat. which personally i think would be great."
"not supported would ruin the game.like my comment if you feel the same way."
"not supported but at least give an an explanation to your post. again if you are joining militia then your joining a war, whats the point of just having it in low sec. thats one big issue with fw. you join to pvp. you want to carebear then dont join a militia"
"this makes total sense from a game and rp point of view. there is no reasonwhy fw is restricted to lowsec. its war, it should not be restricted to any location in game. people can stil carebear, its just at a risk, same as any other wardec.npcs such as navies and corporations that have a military arm shoudl also still shoot the enemy too, but be killable, providing even more content for players."
"i would go with this, proposal edited.."
"it was my understanding, from a purely rpg perspective, that the empires are not actually at war per say. the fw aspect of the game is more of a border dispute than a full on war, thus the restricted ranges of engagement in other more-empire-ish systems.i think it would be cool to have fw spread into hi-sec, but that could create a lot of problems in terms of balancing empires. for example in other mmo's that i've played you could take over control of certain areas, but eventually one team will 'win' or gather an insurmountable lead on territory. in war, that would happen and be great, but in the game your then eliminating people from playing certain races and such. i think i would rather have fw kept in lo-sec than see ccp have to step in to 'reset' empire boundaries from time to time."
"your right highsec should be involved, but not int he way your speaking. the npc's should stay the same in enemy highsecbut your militia should be able to capture enemy highsec switching npc movement. ya'll remember cost of hubris mission? how the npc's 'fight' but they just self destruct. why not make them actually fight? or is that to much coding?how about when your attacking enemy highsec to capture npc's actually fight? say a simulated capital fight? meh? idk idea'sbut i totaly disagree that you can freely roam highsec. would spread out militia to much and ruin fw."
"i think this is true, but dare i say that it would stand to reason that faction npc military becomes nigh impregnable at say a 0.8 sec system and higher, thus entering highsec, endangering fw corp pos and would give more cause to fight in the militia. perhaps include dust514 in this, fighting for a greater cause helping to establish control of systems? would defintely give more depth without absolutely crushing a faction. it would be something to start losing up to half of highsec control for those involved in fw. perhaps even for non fw in regards to market tarrifs to the encroaching faction.... that might finally give industrials something to fight over or at least invest to protect their bottom line. just a few thoughts to incorporate into this idea."
"you ****** up the broadcast window half a year ago presumably to meet a deadline to switch to a new ui framework. the new interface lacks features and readability of the old one and it looks like it was scrapped up by an insomniac programmer in two nights to meet minimal functionality which it probably was.then you left it that way for six months.any other software firm would be terribly embarrassed by such fail but somehow you guys don't have that problem and it pisses the **** out of me that i'm paying money for that kind of complete disregard for quality and continuous pissing on the older player base.rollback the old broadcast window or finish the new one ffs.rumpps i'm writing this post second time because clicking 'preview' apparently deletes it, gg ccp!"
"while i don't agree with the tone, the message has a valid point. the broadcast window needs an overhaul."
"lol, i was just about to post pretty much the same thing. it could definitely be better, but there's no need for ranting and foul language."
"i have much love for the rorq. just don't know what should be done with the ship. i support you on this because i believe ccp might want to revisit on this ship should actually be useful to miners in 0.0 like myself. so far, its just a pos module that burns up fuel lol."
"get rid of offgrid boosting and i think some people will bring their rorquals to the belts."
"i don't think people would bring the rorq to the belts. too easy to gank and suddenly your out 2 bill.it is good for compressing the ore - and a tiny mining boost - but thats about it."
"agreed... the rorqual's mining bonus isn't big enough to warrant it being sieged in-belt, not as it currently stands. if you were to go the radical route of changing the fleet system so as to block off-grid boosting, then you'd also need to buff the rorqual to make it a reasonable combatant, otherwise there'd be no point to it having even the mining boosts at all... which would be a fairly severe change of role from it's current state."
"it is a very large expensive target, which is a bit rubbish for a ship which is ment to fly around. i like the drone idea, but only in the same belt, so then your rorq has a reason to be there."
"if its a industrial ship, then make it do something industrial. in addtion to compressing ores, refining them? turning them into products, a efficent mobile factory."
"that would be kind of awesome... but actually refining ores on-site would entirely eliminate the reason for compressing them. ore compression is cool on it's own, and probably shouldn't be superseded by a boring and economically dubious local refinery."
"ship spinning solo play?pfft, yeah because incarna was totally multiplayer play.summary of eves last four expansions:"
"i'm pretty sure that your beloved and respected colleague manny is taking a well-deserved break from the forums for a few days. such is the peril of those who speak \"truth\" to \"power\", especially when said \"truth\" is spamming one word over and over and over again. that works for buddhists meditating \"facing the wall\", or for the terrible posters on terrible fan sites with names that must not be mentioned.what works for eve online forums is posters who talk about the game and their interactions with other players in a civil manner. what works on your other forum is certainly not civil: your \"good posts\" are the equivalent of a drunk teenager mooning passing traffic on the highway in the middle of the night. that is to say, of no value other than the vulgar entertainment of the people constituting the \"in crowd\".leaving the site that must not be named as a forbidden secret of the eve universe has worked better for that sites popularity than any other spruiking."
"he's not worth any more.and it's not just cause a word is censored. this is a matter of principle. the fact that we have to dip and dodge around a filter to lo link to an eve fan-site that, despite some faggotry in \"eve online uncensored\" is completely harmless. not to mention is home to the biggest supporters of eve, and source of in-game news and politics. kugu has done all this without breaking the eula, nor supporting the breaking of the eula. nothing rule breaking has gone on there except some harsh language. even if they keep it censored, what the fans of kugu want is answers, give us a good enough reason why it should remain censored and most, if not all, will accept it. but if theirs no reasonable reason for it to remain censored, then stop.ccp can do one of three things:1) continue to make lame excuses, close threads, and push us aside. but we will continue until we are satisfied.2) give us a proper reasoning behind the censorship. 3) stop censoring kugu.i await to see their decision."
"the only part i don't understand in all of this is the ignorance surrounding kugu. granted the legends and fables of ~evil-doings and general faggotry~ surrounding the website are kind of interesting, but the fact that people actually buy into said ideas is... well sort of funny.when i was a space-noob, okay when i was a bigger space-noob than i am now, i also experienced the ~shroud of mystery~ surrounding the kugu community, but the reality is we're pretty much just another site to shoot the **** about eve and whatever else we feel like blabbing about.the censor doesn't really make sense to have anymore, and if they were to lift it i feel it would show just how much ccp really has changed."
"not supported!!!like my comment if you agree"
"eve news 24 is incredibly bias. rivereni has a bad choice of words. most things, if not all things, are exagerated by him.kugutsumen, is a place where we can display our own sides of each engagement. the site does have it's \"in crowd\", but as it stands, anyone can sign up for kugu, but not anyone can be a good poster. neither will change."
"free fhc!"
"the funny part is that it's the most populated eve fansite which runs since 2007 and we never actually had any complaints related to the accusations we are receiving, or in reality the excuses for keeping this useless filter; with its population even increasing every year. isn't it obvious that if any of this was really true it would have been reported over the years, at least by a few people and instead of having its memberbase increasing it would eventually become a deadzone (like shitheap but for totally different reasons)? if ccp really grew up and did take the :honest: road it's about time to drop the egoistical nonsense that comes from the fact that the creator of the site did catch them once with their pants down and do what is only obvious; remove this damn filter."
"why would ccp need to explain why you put your computer, eve account and identity at risk by frequenting a site managed by internet terrorists who hack into other peoples forums to generate content for their site so they can make money off advertising and foreplay subs? mula is begging for money on his forums. his dreams would come true if he could get noobs coming from e-o site unaware that he saves password in plain text format and then he can steal their eve accounts, sell for rl isk so he can afford to bang more russian supermodels."
"if you use the same username and password for random forums as you do with your eve online account, you deserve to get hacked. irregardless its funny how false accusations seem to spread. curious wouldn't in the long run that actually be bad for his site if he did that? i mean word would obviously get out and people would stop going to the site, so all revenue would stop from ads and foreplay. kind of silly to take that risk in the slim hope some ****** uses same user/pass.nice try though. also the users of the forum generate the content, thats kind of the appeal of running a forum.ccp's motto: if it isn't broken, break it. if it is broken, ignore it. improving npe / dynamic new eden"
"lock thread for no content ?"
"not supported!!!like my comment if you agree"
"i got a little off the wall idea for all you null-secers that want to remove ice from high-sec. i<U+FFFD>ll trade you all the bots and ice for your lovely supply and access to moongoo. this way, you all will still have your isk faucet and can have full control over your cap-ship jumping, jump bridges, and pos warfare, and we get something that doesn<U+FFFD>t take a fleet of bots to control.suggested changes:remove all ice from 0.4-1.0 space.remove all moon minerals from 0.0-0.3add moon minerals and the ability to mine moon minerals to 0.4-0.7quality of moon materials goes up as security goes up.pros:less <U+FFFD>bot<U+FFFD>s<U+FFFD> in high-sec.less total null-sec control over the game.high-sec access to a bigger part of t2 production.keeps the status quo of high-sec and null-sec.better risk for reward in ice mining.cons:move <U+FFFD>bot<U+FFFD>s<U+FFFD> in null-sec.war in null-sec can have a bigger affect on wh and t2 production.less <U+FFFD>solo<U+FFFD> play available for players.corps will need to grind to gain access to <U+FFFD>top tier<U+FFFD> moons of 0.7 space.if you people in null-sec want to take sand from me i<U+FFFD>ll get my tonka truck and take some of you. like it or leave my half of the sandbox to me.regil"
"great post."
"moon goo in hisec is an interesting idea, actually.it wouldn't at all be fair to implement at present, of course, given that the wardec mechanics have been totally nerfed by 'decshield' type dodges... but it'd be kind of cool if there were limited amounts of valuable moongoo available to hisec corporations. they'd need good standings with the relevant empire, and the usual lp-based starbase charters (possibly including more expensive lp-based 'mining permits' as well?)... and then, provided a goo-bearing moon was available in their part of hisec, they'd be able to mine it. most likely, they'd fill up fast, and the good moons would be constantly under wardec... thus introducing hisec corporations into the basic idea of sov warfare, but with training wheels on. given a revamp of the wardec system (formalization of mercenary contracts would be an absolute minimum here), then we'd see some decent wars in hisec, which can only be a plus... and once people are starting to get used to the idea of fighting to attack/defend valuable moongoo pos's, it's only a short leap to heading out into lowsec to grab even more valuable pos spaces, or even into nullsec outright.i'd go on, but this is really an idea which deserves it's own thread."
"the expiration timer mechanism seems terrible... the kind of thing to make a hauler pilot kill himself, for sure. there doesn't really seem to be any good reason for it, either. if you're going to have a big solar array up close to the sun or whatever that produces valuable but bulky fuel... then the limitation to the stuff is already 'these things take up 10km3 apiece' and you're done. small enough that an appropriately configured industrial can haul them, for bi-weekly supply runs... but big enough that you might want to just take care of the month's work with a freighter and be done with it. do ensure that these things are in all respects normal items that you could sell on the market, and let eve's economy do the rest. no need to overcomplicate things."
"id like to harvest some sunshine, pak it up and keep it for ****** winter days plox."
"the idea behind the expiration timer was to create a very limited supply, so that the batteries are a critical resource to holding sovereignty. without the expiration timer you would be able to stock pile as many of them as you like, and the act of someone attacking your production facilities would not generate the immediate desire to defend them. these facilities should act as an alternate means of assaulting sovereignty."
"okay, i see where you're coming from... but 'items that expire' seems a wrong way of going about it.if 'structure that you can beat up to impose logistical costs on sov holders' is the desired goal, then why not just have solar power arrays anchored near the sun, whose purpose is to reduce sov costs on a per-system basis, but which stop working if they've got any damage beyond their shields. that way, there are 'fields to burn' that the alliances will actually care about, but which are relative small fries that roaming gangs could hit as targets of opportunity."
"why does it always come back to mining? why? why?this game is about shooting. can't we just shoot the sun or something? its always 1 poor bastard that has to do all the work in these proposals."
"no, this game is about shooting, mining, exploring, politics, economy, wars, pirates, ancient secrets, the vastness of space, lore, science, and whatever you want to do in it. so it isn't just a shooting game. you won't even have guns or ships if it wasn't because of mining and all the other things. i would also like to be able to \"take\" star's winds and use them for something. i support that."
"it took me about 72 hours to get the eve client it's just too long.also people who want to try out the game don't because they've been trying to download the game for 48 hours.if the download time is reduced more people will play eve which means more money to ccp which will hopefully result in more eve development."
"try downloading it on something other than a 56k modem? it took me an hour."
"not wanting to be rude, but... some people have better internet connections then others. last time i needed to redownload the client from scratch, it only took me 3 hours. and i don't have exceptionally fast internet either. if it's taking you a full 72 hours to download eve, it's not ccp, it's you.that said... ccp is actually working on this issue. not so much making the client smaller, because that pretty much can't happen with a game of this sort... not, at least, without cutting features, or reducing quality, or any number of other game-destroying things... but making the installer work more smoothly, and be more tolerant of interruptions and network slowness.like most modern mmos, your game experience will suffer if you lack proper broadband internet. if you happen to live in one of the sadly impoverished parts of the world that lacks full broadband access (not saying anything about country... this includes even less-populous parts of the us, for example), then it means longer download times, more lag on your end, and an all-round worse experience. this sucks... but the fact of the matter is, there's really not much ccp can do about it.sorry for the inconvenience."
"my internet is fast enough. am in denmark and have a 6 mb downloading speed which is about 1-3 mb effective downloading speed. the problem though is that when i download eve not other files then the game gets downloaded with a speed og 160 kbs or something. it takes roughly 24 hours to get down but people have to repeat their downloading attempts like 2-5 times eaven the offline installer. have a friend he has okey fast internet he tried and tried to download the game had a problem with it, more problems than petitioned it got a repair link tried it and more problems.the way it is now people don't play eve because they just give up trying to download the game."
"and about them working on it well they should put more people on it so people can play the game."
"takes me around 40 minutes."
"hench? that's so gay lol. i have 3 accounts and do just fine. no to this proposal."
