"you're blatantly ignoring that we're talking about a specific ship class (frigates), and not everything altogether. remember this is comparative. cost is a factor... don't believe me? i highly doubt you or anyone has 20 dramiels lying around for pure casual pvp. why? cause they are expensive on the frigate scale. you never hear anyone say to a noob, go get yourself 20 drams and learn to pvp in it, it's always a t1 frig that people will learn or do casual pvp in, cause it's a throw away, drams or any pirate faction are not.supercaps are a whole other issue, which is unrelated to this. there, i bolded the part you again seemed to ignore or you just have selective reading or poor reading comprehension. insults aside, this was part of the discussion per the thread i read like 5 months ago... i'd link it, but i just don't have time to search for it. it was a very good read. your issue with this was discussed, thus i said \"per locked aggressor.\" it would prevent such a lame tactic as you described. now unless you favor 100 - 1 odds or mindless fleet warfare of just whoever has the greater numbers... this is a great solution. i personally prefer small gang warfare... i find it avoids just blob+lag+pray = win/lose warfare. if this were solved, i might actually be interested in 0.0 space, because then i might actually feel like i was contributing tactically and not just another sheep in laser toting numbers."
"limiting the numer of locks.friendlies fillig up the \"slots\"solutions?max number of locks pr fleet base on target ship type. (one fleet cant lock up a ship)only -5 to -10 standing ships counttime limit.anything else? cant this be made to work or will it end up like a lawbook <U+FFFD><U+FFFD><U+FFFD><U+FFFD><U+FFFD><U+FFFD><U+FFFD><U+FFFD><U+FFFD><U+FFFD>the need that spawned the idea is sound enough..."
"actually on the faction frigate scale they're cheaper than both the cruor and daredevil, last time i checked and about on par with the succubus and worm. oh and guess what - the dram is better than all of them.to anyone else who isn't a noob and is actually capable of piloting a dramiel to a reasonable standard, that cost really isn't a big deal. i'm not even particularly rich, and it's not a problem to me. so basically your argument boils down to:\"the dramiel is fine, because it takes slightly longer for them to be easily affordable than other frigates\".cost also becomes much less of an issue when you barely lose them, and with a competant pilot in it it's quite hard to die in one of those things.of course all of this is irrelevant because of the simple fact that there shouldn't be a clear best in any ship size. it's a simple question really: if you have the skills* and the isk** to fly the dramiel - why use any other frig?*2 weeks training, big whoop.** easy enough to acquire. if you honestly think dramiels are expensive, how about running something better than level 2 missions?nope, they're an excellent example of how cost doesn't matter to people.easily worked around. pathetically easily, in fact. if you can't figure out how, that's your problem.both abusable if you take 5 seconds to think about it."
"kill the tier system. if the tier system went away and more ships were useful, it would expand content in this game tremendously.fix hybrids. they're pathetic.give balance to active repping ships. those with resist bonuses can rep and buffer tank, but the active rep ships can't. maybe give the active rep ships a bonus to received remote reps as well."
"quickly out my head: blaster's more fall off + tracking, more dpscruor, needs little bit more cap + 50 dpscovert op frigates need all 3 high slots blockade runners need all atleast 2 high slotsstiletto need a bit more capelectronic attack frigets all need fitting buffs, cap, power, cpu and speed buff's they need to be ewar hyper frigs. for what i care remove all damageeris needs more damage and fitting buffashimmu need more cap more speed and little bit more damagephantasm need more speed, fitting buff and more capvigilant, blasters + plates = slow more speed or blaster fixpilgrim, need more neut range, 12,6 km is rlly too low, need alos more caprecons in general should get +2000 cap, it's annoying they can't do warps +90 au in 1 timearazu needs extra low slot + speed, switch missle hpoint for turret, lachesis need exra low slot, more speed, and ditch the missile hardpoints and switch for turrets, serious, u need drones + hybrid + missile skills its failrecons could use a little bit more dps (50-100 ish)zealot need + 1 mid + more fall off eagle need more speed, more damage, wtb hybrid fixdeimos = lack power+ cap for reppers and passive plate tank = too slow, official most fail ship in evebroadsword need more hphurricane needs - 2 high slots, or other bc's all need nerf. the dual neut fit is too powerful. ac have too good tracking and too good range on the current pvp fit. brutix need more speed, more hybrid dpsastarte, need more speed, more dps, more cap, worsed cs ingame next eoseos, is it good for anything except mining?black op's, see black op topic im running for over 18 months now in assembly hallmarauders, not worth itvindicator, more dps, more speed, more capbaalgorn, more speed, lillebit more capproteus, more cap more damagewapon changes in general, laser: more fall offaucocannon: need tracking nerfblaster more tracking more dpsgallente should get overall bonus to drone velocity to their ships"
"the eos has 3 main problems that make it ineffective in modern eve warfare.1. it's a blaster boat that wishes it was a drone boat. right now the eos's bonuses are split between blasters and drones. you have a huge drone bay, but without a damage bonus the dps from drones alone is rather pathetic forcing you to get in close with blasters whose shortcomings have been perhaps over discussed. however, by changing the hybrid damage bonus to a drone hp/damage bonus you help out the eos by allowing it to fit projectiles instead of hybrids without sacrificing damage. also, because projectiles use no cap, it makes the ship more cap stable which is key for an effective active tank. 2. it's an active tank in the era of passive tanks. this is an issue that effects all gallente ships and i'm not going to get into it here. 3. information warfare links are virtually useless.the only decent warfare link in the bunch is 'electronic superiority'. but even then it's a niche player. honestly, when does a gang ever have more than 10-20% ew. other than that:'recon operation' isn't worth the fitting cost.'sensor integrity' is nice but doesn't go far enough. to fix these i suggest moving the range bonus from 'recon operation' onto the 'electronic superiority' warfare link. give a scan resolution bonus to the 'sensor integrity' warfare link, and in place of the 'recon operation' warfare link add another which boosts tracking and falloff. these fixes would at least make the eos useful, though still weak for a command ship. and if you give it the myrmidon hull in addition then i just might keep flying my eos after i finish training for a slepnir."
"so again, you coviniently ignore my valid point and didn't answer my question... i highly doubt you have 20 drams... or hell, i doubt you have more drams than your favorite t1 frig or af. despite your nit-picking of faction frigs cost, my experience in bring a daredevil up against a dram = they run away or die, so how exactly is the dram better? just speed? haven't flown a cruor, but i'd imagine the same fate with a quick power drain and it's speed is gone... bye bye dram. btw, i stated a \"kings\" (plural) of the frig class. yes there should be, or you're telling me everyone should just fly rifters? how boring. i'm also in favor of removing the tier system of frigs and giving them all nice niches to a more level t1 playing field.two weeks training for dram? to what... buckle the seatbelt? lol, nevermind the support skills right? and of course ur banter that they aren't lost as often... is that per use or in general? of course this depends on the skill of a pilot, just like any other ship, but drams get killed quite often, some more than others. supercaps are different as they pertain more to the effect of alliance farms, not the average individual. *your drivel about lvl 2 missioning... pls, weak sauce.finally, your pathetic workaround... are you actually suggesting a fleet would dedicate a neutral sqaud to agress them with say 1 lasor each to \"beat the system?\" assuming this is your easy undeclared route. that's indeed pathetic and absurd... i would then suggest that sig lowering was per aggressing module vs just per aggressing ship. an easy solution. again, if ur workaround was diferent, pls post.above all this bickering, this is an idea w/o the set mechanics. ofcourse there would have to be tweeks and checks vs crap workarounds (if u had another method workaround, why not post ur backing instead of being childish). afterall the idea is to promote more tactical engagements and dog fights vs blob warfare, are you actually against this? and by all means, if you have a better solution against blob fighting, post your brilliance. our goal is a better eve by expanding on ideas to solve legitimate problems. many believe blob fighting is. dampening sig radius per aggressor was a creative solution if ofcourse developed correctly. so, how would you fix the issue?"
"nope, but i could if i wanted. they're not exactly expensive for anyone with an average income.you really are a tool. it's 2 weeks to get the relevent frigate skills up, plus the same support you'd use for any other ship in the game. the point being: it's hardly demanding on time compared to other frigs, but the performance is vastly higher.regarding the rest of this trash of a paragraph: of course a daredevil could beat a dramiel 1v1, but the daredevil costs even more and has serious disadvantages the dramiel doesn't. the point being: the dram may lose some 1v1 fights, but with a competant pilot it won't get into those fights in the first place. it's too good all round, and thankfully ccp are aware of this so i look forward to it getting a good hard nerfing. personally i'm in favour of reducing the speed to interceptor levels and/or removing a mid. privately owned supercarriers do exist, in higher numbers than you'd think. 15 billion + fittings isn't much of deterrant there.it's not that far fetched if you think about it. throw a few civilian guns onto a friendly scimitar and you'll have a logistics with the sig radius of a frigate. once again the point being: any \"anti-blob\" system that involves bottlenecking via targeting/aggression, will be abused in some way by those determined enough. you're not going to solve blobbing until greater numbers ceases to be an advantage, and how likely do you think that is of ever happening?you'd need either way more aoe weapons in game or one of those empyrean age trailer doomsday weapons, neither of which would be a sensible thing to add."
"well, like you said, ccp is \"taking care of it.\" my school of thought, for a ship that is higher cost and availsble to everyone provides equal opportunity. honestly, whatever they do to it won't matter to me as i see it as, \"it's the same for everyone.\" i particularly loathe certain whines when it comes to tactics vs a legitamate issue, such as hybrids and probably the gallente. i prefer finding game solutions to tactical issues like ecm, rr and that bit. apparently, the dram goes beyond a tactical issue for most... oh well, so be it.15 bill does seem rather cheap for such a monster. despite a needed nerf, would you think that with the alliance economy giants, multiplying the costs would help reduce their overabundance? plus, as i understand it, ccp have thought about a new mothership ( a docking capital?). of course in the distant future?it's a shame that people feel so deflated on the issue of blobbing. that doesn't mean that a viable solution can't be implemented... logically or more dramatically as it is a major issue non-the-less. guess we'll have to count on the forward thinkers at ccp to make those command decisions rather than bother to debate trolls in a forum over why it needs to be vs how to do it.- peace"
"in order:1- boost gallente2- nerf the dramiel3- revamp ecm, get rid of the current terrible mechanic.4- get rid of the tier system"
"make it cheaper to produce t2 / t1 items in 0.0 and watc hthe industialisation flow, ofc people will be producing stuff in 0.0 and ship up to high sec but alot of it will also be dumped on 0.0 markets. it fits nicly within the risk vs reward line. to do this it should be easy and cheap to produce items that means no posses but station buff's. make if affordable and worth it to upgarde stations. pos manufacturing in 0.0 makes it insta un attractive cause u need to sell alot to gain back the pos costs."
"give better base refining rates in null, not worse.give better turnaround on factory and lab operations (30% faster).reduce the material cost of outpost factories 30% across the board."
"i think this is implicit to the original suggestion. improved capabilities for industrialization which also provides objectives for small gang raids into sovereign territory. 0.0 powers deploy their nullsec industrial widgets which increase mining yields or ratting bountiues or production efficiency or whatever, above and beyond what is currently possible in either empire or 0.0, which encourages the current highsec carebear types to venture out into 0.0 rather than all clustering around jita and motsu as they do now. roaming hostiles can then attack these widgets and loot them to gain some sort of reward of their own if the owners don't show up and defend."
"this is a reasonable idea. it would turn provi into a giant gold mine though, but it ate the nerf bat hard in the anom change, so life goes on."
"yes, absolutely. it's the other side to this which needs to be done to encourage this.also, outposts should need field/farm products to remain active, or they'll decay into progressively less usable states. when captured, you should need to spend a few days establishing your field/farms to get them up and running. and they'll be type-specific, and not much use elsewhere. hitting the farms repeatedly could cripple an alliance's ability to use a station's services..."
":ccp: :ccp: :ccp: :ccp: :ccp: :ccp: :ccp: :ccp: :ccp: :ccp: :ccp: :ccp: :ccp: :ccp: :ccp: :ccp: :ccp: :ccp: :ccp: :ccp: :ccp: :ccp: :ccp: :ccp: :ccp: :ccp: :ccp: :ccp: :ccp: :ccp: breaking news:the new font is deployed on tq already.yes it looks almost identical.yes there is minor improvements over b 8 i l etc.0 and o still looks the same.i am very disappoint.:ccp: :ccp: :ccp: :ccp: :ccp: :ccp: :ccp: :ccp: :ccp: :ccp: :ccp: :ccp: :ccp: :ccp: :ccp: :ccp: :ccp: :ccp: :ccp: :ccp: :ccp: :ccp: :ccp: :ccp: :ccp: :ccp: :ccp: :ccp: :ccp: :ccp:nevermind"
"i support this fully!"
"i think a better idea is to have hybrids 'web' what they hit.maybe 5% for each turret. or even increase the speed of the ship they are on by 5% per turret."
"i really like malcanis' proposal. i think, along with the ammo change, blasters would also need a mild range increase. that way the tracking would not need to be boosted to the point where frigates are under constant threat anywhere near the blaster boat.it would make them relatively useful."
"i like. pretty interesting idea, which might make hybrids both useful and unique."
"sounds like a reasonable idea to me, and i've never been keen on lasers and hybrids following the same kind of range schema."
"anything is better than this.ccp hate gallente"
"but that's precisely it: 1-3 per ship, for ca. 15 ships, and you're already at max. i had a lot of loadouts for my ships, ranging from interesting fits people posted in channel, to corp preferred fits, to fits from trusted friends, etc.so, yeah, supported; +1"
"signed with capitals. in the past, this was a good and useful feature, now turned bad and completely useless. yes, it had its bugs and the code needed some fixing love. those niggles are still there though. there's no way i can \"pick\" 50 of my 150 locally saved fitting, i use them all more or less equally, and exported/imported over my accounts. many of us with more than 1 pc already knew what to copy between them, and we still have to do that for other stuff (bookmark folders for one). it's also a smart thing to do for backups, as things sometimes break. it's a good idea on paper, one that probably sounded cool to a dev in a meeting (but where the 50 limit came from is anyone's guess). but it makes a very minor difference and has a very minor actual positive impact for a few. a major negative impact for others."
"a weird comment, have you understood the issue, or thought it through? to (re)fit a ship using the feature usually took me 2-5 seconds, with no second thoughts or errors (didn't pick the wrong stuff with same icons by mistake). there's no way even you can do that faster. this isn't some minor bug that needs fixing, it was a working feature that got deliberately nerfed into a useless state for many. the old code still exists somewhere. it takes 10-30 mins to restore, if time is the problem. i would guess a few hours coding and a few days testing if they want to make it really right. and has they found the time to do this in the first place... do it right."
"giving an option is always good. means that i don't have to suspend my accounts until i have the money to afford a new pc. as it is at the moment, the load times will make pvp and ship switching etc unbearable, never mind how the poor missioners / traders are feeling.so yep, i'm pro choice!"
"signed. i left the fleshy masses five years ago and see no need to be forced into the throng of smelly filthy things yet again.seriously ccp seems to be making eve into wannabe virtual fashion show, leave that crap for blizzard."
"supported...for everyone that wants / needs some faction fof missiles:wts 5k hydra f.o.f edit: after several requests i decided to put the price in here... 100k each ( i hate high cspa charge )"
"supported"
"please continue to read and support."
"no."
"you are a lame person"
"let the pubbie alone, he wants to be important somewere, if not in rl then meaby here at forums of important internet space ships."
"hmm i don't really see the point ...perhaps it is to remove those half trained skills?just train them to full ...and it is your experience, if you trained in industry, you can't just erase it, it is part of your history ...i wouldn't mind if ccp implemented this, but i won't support your proposal, because there are better things to work on."
"just stating the obvious...but wouldn't ccp want plex to be more expensive?as a side note: vanity items are hitting the market in isk as well. initial prices will be through the roof but as vanity items become more widespread on the market over time, they will decrease in price. you see, most (sensible) people will see item b, want it, and sell their item a to get the isk for it. literally people will, through the market (or their friends) trade off vanity items...gradually reducing the amount of aur, and thus plex, involved. it won't ever completely remove aur and plex of course - if you looked at any other mmo's recently you'll know people are more than willing to just spend real money to get nifty vanity items."
"not this again.aur is needed to stabilize the market, people. there are too many plex in-game, ccp needs a way to get them out and stabilize their amount on the market.and plex will rise, one way or another. it's too easy to farm isk and too many people prefer to \"play for free\" and buy their time via plex, of course plex will rise, it always has."
"i don't see any point in disconnecting it, when you can simply trade items. plex prices will go up and people will leave. plex prices have already gone up. no doubt people have already decided to quit."
"aur was introduced to cull plex.all those vanity items only have the purpose to reduce the amount of plex in circulation.asking for them to become available in alternate ways boggles the mind, it's contrary to the very reason they were put in in the first place."
"i don't support microtransactions, so i won't support a different way of implementing them either."
"what would probably be a better idea are systems that contain limited population sites - for lack of better terms, battlegrounds or arenas. i hate to relate to wow, but what you're proposing would really only work in such a system as 'queueing' for an area that only you and a select individual or group can be present.we also have this thing called can-looting in hisec. ever tried it? works like a charm believe it or not.if you're mad that solo fights in lowsec and nullsec are virtually impossible...welcome to lowsec and nullsec. that's the point. bring friends, because you can bet they will.high security is named so for many reasons...one such reason, which applies directly to your idea, is that solo or group combat can be carried out without fear of intervention. if you're referring to the fact looting a can aggros the corp, i proposed the idea once that cans could be 'triggered' as personal - meaning they didn't aggro the corp - for this specific purpose. or simply integrating a 'challenge' function for individuals, and fleets.\"alias\" challenges \"sveti\" (accept fight - 3,2,1 aggrod without kill-right for who loses, ship is destructible)\"alias' fleet\" challenges \"sveti\"/\"sveti's fleet\" (boss or fc accepts fight - 3,2,1 aggrod without kill-rights when you lose a ship, all ships destructible)a player loses his aggression right (but can still be killed) if he flees the battle (i.e. gets 1 a.u. away or some such from nearest enemy). aggression rights are canceled upon one fleet losing all of its registered combatants. sounds simply on paper, implementing would be tough, but there is your 'safe' version of a controlled battle...which in my opinion has no place in eve considering there is no safe in eve. (even the marketplace can **** you)"
"you don't really get this \"eve\" concept, do you?"
"i have only one thing to say...please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"i've never used these little buggers, and i too thought you could / should be able to do this."
"considering skills are never useless, just not used, no. more importantly, just train the skills you need. a new player will not make two months worth of wrong skills...he'll make two months worth of skills that are the profession he doesn't like, or too spread out: both are fixable with time, and not that much.time it takes an indy pilot to go into combat? about one week - ta da, you're in that frigate ready to get rolling.time it takes a trader to go into mining? about one week - ta da, you're in a cruiser mining.time it takes combat to go into trading? you guessed it, one week - ta da, you're station trading with 30+ buy orders.so noob mistakes really aren't a good reason for skill remaps in any form at all, considering it takes little to no time to pursue a new field. in fact, the same applies to veteran characters - they can switch fields at any time by simply getting the skills and starting. as for 'recharacterizing' - changing skills is what that is, and you just proposed it. there has yet to be any solid reason for a remap except \"i want to be something else, now.\" again - skills aren't useless, you just trained something you no longer want. that's how you learn eve - by finding what you enjoy. i started as a miner and stuck to it forever...then realized i had more fun killing the competition than actually mining. thus, i now operate as defense for our mining operation. it took me all of a week to change that mining barge to a well-armed frigate (now battlecruiser)."
"it is just from time to time i want to get rid of those skills i didnt need in 5 years of playing eve (i never fired a hybrid gun and i know i never will). considering the sp loss (could even be 50%) people won't do it to recharacterize i guess."
"insanity: doing the same thing over and over again and expecting different results.albert einstein"
"no result yet"
"so you think that the titan's should have aoe dd, tracking enough to hit ab frigs, be able to deploy fighters and jump without cynos? .. i mean look at the price tag!!!!in case you didn't get it: isk has never and will never be relevant in balancing.genos were the first to mass abuse the angel ships as far as i know and also the first group with multiple pilots labelling them as broken (after the fw crowd had screamed foul!) .. take a moment to think about that.it would be the same as high ranking members of nc, drf and goons spearheading the campaign to nerf supercarriers and jumpbridges"
"sorry if i'm out of the loop but let me get this straight.if i am fighting a guy and a neutral character reps, the repper goes red and i can shoot?as long as i can shoot the healer then i am good and don't support this thread.i thought the problem was that the neutral repper would stay neutral and be unable to be attacked legally?-mal"
"i agree its a problem but i personally do not have a good idea to fix it and this idea is insane. i've thought about this so much it makes my head hurt and i'm not sure theres a better way to make it then it is now. the first idea that crossed my mind that also has obvious issues is to modify this idea to instead of only corp/alliances can rep each other make it so it only applies when part of a war. the first response to this that comes to mind is hey what if someone dec's me and i dont even want to be in the war. now i can't be repped in a multitude of situations that nerf many other forms of play other than the wardec and fighting in highsec. so first idea i came up with.. epic fail.hopefully this is a bit more helpful than \"omfg u suck for saying rr is not teh win always and stop trying to stop me from using an unattackable until used ship\"there is definately a big problem with how it works but you should probably make sure your situation makes sense and does not nerf other parts of the game before posting to the boards with it. a really good fix that would actually work would only receive negative critasim in the form of \"omg u suck\" because it would be from people that use questionable tactics. i see plenty of legitamite gripes with what this would do to the game and i can think of at least a handful myself. to sum it up... back to the drawing board. i cant support this idea as it is currently written."
"you are correct in that the moment a neutral rrr starts repping your opposing force, he becomes red flashy and you can attack him.the gripe that some have, is a) obviously you can't tell who is a neutral rr toon in system unless u faced them before, b) they can sit on your face if they want, if they haven't yet aided your opposition and there's not much u can do about it, c) rring anyone does not give you a 60 sec aggression counter, thus they can dock or jump gate immediately (because they are not attacking anyone); d) at the end of their rring, they only get a 15 min aggression flag to the corp or person they aided against.rr is a force multiplier, much like ecm. they are aids to those that don't have pure numbers and quite frankly, are neccessary as optional tactics to keep from a stagnant game of \"greatest blob wins\" mentality. of course, some people strictly view numbers as the trump tactic that should \"always win.\" they stomp their feet and throw a tantrum because a mixed force of 6 spanked a pure dps force of 15 because the smaller force was smart enough to bring the right equipment. history tells us in many cases where superior strategy and execution defeats greater numbers. i've been on both sides of this battle... after getting my butt handed to me by a smarter force, i learned quickly how to both employ and counter these tactics. i became a smarter pilot. no force is impervious... you just need the right tools, a good plan and disciplined execution."
"in this case i would support making it so that rreppers could not dock or jump gate until a cooldown period is complete.otherwise this is just like bringing friends to a street fight. it might be a bit underhanded... but it certainly doesn't need to be eliminated. this is really the same thing as an ambush scenario in real life. you never know what river boat will have bad intentions, (remember the u.s.s cole). i support realistic tactics in eve.-mal"
"i think caldari should have a shape of a colorful object on their underside that shoots a colorful blast of love that makes people not want to fight other players and only shoot npcs and mine and sell things on the market.suggestions for shapes:rainbow (blue bear)heart (i think its brown or red bear?)clover (green bear)hold on i gotta look these up its been like 25 years since i saw the tv show....ahh crap sorry.. start overrainbow (light pinkish)shooting star (light blue)2 hearts (darker pinkish)big heart (orangy brown)moon (dark blue)clover (green bear) i got this one right!"
"had such idea myself. make railguns caldari-special weapon, just like rockets, and introduce a new long-range weapon for gallente.though, both our ideas more like \"hey, why not\" types and need much more thoughtful approach."
"no! seriously... brainless gibberish. perhaps you were just drunk and ****ed off, caused by falcon. have you re-read this again when u'r sober? it's terrible!chance based jamming as they have it is actually very brilliant and very fair for such an ewar item. there's mods to boost or defend against it. pure and simple math and percentage.all you wanna be wheel inventors are obvioysly wanting to tailor it or get rid of it because it impacts you adversely. the cry of, \"it's annoying!\" is like someone whining that damage is annoying because it hurts their ship to the point they explode and makes them useless. or tracking disruptor making their gunship useless. well no sh!t sherlock, it's part of the great variety of eve in messing with ur opponent. the world you whiners want is stagnant and pathetic. this isn't just point and shoot... if that's all you want, dust 514 is coming soon and you can get the hell out of the pod."
"this, new history is bad, m-kay?give us back old history, stop fixing things that dont need fixing."
"found this old idea and felt like posting it : ae"
"yeah.... only this aliens will be jove."
"thumbs down. why should noctis get the only \"auto\" feature. i'm not a fan of putting games on easy mode. i have enjoyed that (generally) every change ccp makes has been about content and easy of use and not about \"easy mode\" one click gameplay.-mal"
"lol... just lol... nice topic"
"i too support making eve an idiot-fest where the most powerful weapon is simply crashing mwd frigates into anyone stupid enough to undock something larger, producing the realistic result of everyone involved being reduced to space-confetti.2/10kinda amusing, but this troll has been done too many times."
"this would never work in eve, too many people, too many lag, not enough control, way too big titans.on the other hand, more adequate collisions could be nice. not a fan of whole \"bumping\" thing."
"agreed. the current proposal is a no-go. damage collisions == fail.but bumping should take into account mass, so that a frigate bumping into a freighter should barely move it, if at all.ps, i think that the current 'bump' effect is actually explained by the auto-collision avoidance computer redirecting the path of both ships, which is the reason why bumping happens. this should be modified though so that only an object of comparable mass would bump your ship."
"i propose a new ship to counter the ever increasing super capital fleets.the t2 dreadnought.requires:dreadnought 5capital ships 5t2 dreadnought 1special ability:bonus to capital weapons against super capitals 10% per levelracial armour/shield bonus 5% per levelability to fit siege module (5 min siege timer)ability to fit mini dd (aoe, something small to clear drones, unable to jump or warp for 10 minutes)1000% bonus to damage while in siegeew immunerole:the damage output of these ships will decimate super capital ships but will not touch normal caps. they will be required to be well supported on the battle field.build cost should be 4 - 6 billion and must be build in a pos."
"atm, the mechanic to gain sec. status after you do some naughty things in lowsec is rather odd. you have couple of options to repair it, either in missions (provided you have not dropped too low), ninja (or proper) ratting in 0.0, or ratting in lowsec, which is really not very effective way.this thread sums up the current mechanic nicelyonly difference i noticed is that the timer seems to be 10 minutes now.the 0.0 and lowsec ways are not as much badly affected by the current mechanic. quite the contrary, in 0.0 you can gain sec status rather fast, because every system got his separate \"sec. status gain\" timer, so running thru 5-6 systems and killing the most juiciest rats you can get nice boost. if you are lazy to go round and round the systems, or they are populated just wait in safe or cloaked and kill another ship after you gain sec status.missions are another story.first issue is that not all mission rats give the sec status increase. i don't expect killing some gallente ships will, but for example eom ships should give increase. pirate factions like angels, sansha, blood raiders generally give the sec status increase, but not in all missions. for example killing angels give sec status in angels extravaganza, but it does not in worlds collide featuring angels and sansha (sansha does not give increase as well).second issue is that if you do the missions normally the security status increase is pretty random, as you usually kill targets that threaten you first (tackling frigs) and then proceed to the kill bigger stuff like battleships, which give nice sec status increase. iam not exactly sure how the timer works here, sometimes it resets when you kill the battleship (meaning that you effectively lose the time between killing the first ship and the battleship). sometimes you just get the small increase from frig. sometimes you don't get anything. if you run the mission for the sole purpose of increasing your security status you can imagine, this is pretty frustrating.the best way is to get mission after mission and when you get one that you are sure is giving the sec. status and there are decent rats you can proceed. get in, kill one battleship, get out (or tank them for next 10 minutes). repeat till there are no battleships left. good thing is that the mission respawns after downtime so you can do it again (i guess few have patience to try to get another good mission and repeat this process more than once a day).now what i propose:remove the timer and decrease the boost from individual rats (but make every killed rat count), so the rate of security status gain will be about the same as with previous mechanic. sec status \"payout\" can be grouped like the bounty payout. also fix the missions and rats that do not give sec status increase. in fact every npc ship that have bounty should also give sec. status increase.what will it achieve:if people opt to increase their sec. status in missions they will be able to actually do the missions, instead of just waiting for some timer. as a by product they can earn more isk in bounties and mission payouts and maybe even having fun, instead being stuck in one mission for days. i am aware that it might hurt the rate of sec. status gain when people chain couple of 0.0 systems and run around. although iam not sure if that was an intended feature of the current system.my reasons:iam playing this game for quite a while and i got involved in lot of different things it offers. this is why i like it and i do not want to restrict myself out of empire space because of my current rather casual pirating activities. there is crime and i accept the punishment, but in case that the timer was not directly intended as the punishment, but rather mechanic that was at hand when they introduced the sec. status please do something about it. afaik this mechanic is here possibly from the first days of eve"
"i actually like this idea, i think it could work well into incursions and things like that. it should be up to the mayor or whatever you want to call him, to organise responses to incursions. also it could tie into the new agent system, with a better mayor able to encourage more mission agents to move into an area, or maybe some kind of special mobile agents, that just go to the best managed systems. also, they mayor would be responsible for maintinance of stations and stargates in empire, and maybe have some stations and/or gates disabled unless they are kept in a decent state.maybe you could get certain systems that are 'safe' from this kind of inteference, such as jita, amarr, rens etc, so instead of having it by region, you could do it by constalation, with the empires taking control over the 'core' systems.obviously this idea needs to be properly thrashed out and geared towards the 'noobs', but i think it would be really fun for new players to get into."
"it would be nice if they used these forums ccp set up for csm. that way players could actually interact with their representatives instead of listening to a canned audio clip. (and telling people they must be available at a certain time to ask their short question so you can give your political sound bite isn't really interaction.) thinking that players are going to chase down everyones blog and radio show is unrealistic. plus they will just be repeating what they said in different media in different places. there is something to be said for a centralized information outlet instead of telling players to search the internet."
"the truth gets out in the end"
"well in this case it certainly hasn't been locked well. to quote a the wll used phrase, security through obscurity is no security at all. if people already have the source code and can make exploits, why not open it up to everyone else who can find the exploits and report them to ccp before they have a chance to be used."
"\"give small gangs rewarding objectives\":there is nothing a small group of people can do that a larger group of people can't do better/faster in eve. your 30 man gang can not and should not be able to beat a similarly equipped 50 person group.this will hold true for any goal or objective that does not have an arbitrary cap on the number of people involved.\"encourage gang on gang warfare\":similarly, if two groups are fighting, they will strive to bring more ships and reduce losses, this will only break down if there is some sort of arbitrary x number vs. x number mechanic. if this sounds familiar you probably play wow with instanced pvp with x amount of people on each team.\"enable small gangs promote[sic] a response from other alliances\"they can and do. most commonly \"form up, lets go kill them to get them out of our space\" or \"get safe and don't die\". i'm not sure what other kind of 'response' you had in mind?conclusion:this is how eve, much akin to reality, works.entire form is babies."
"get safe and dont die or do not go to ab-123 its camped is not the desired response. the lets go kill em is what people are after. if the defense fleet is larger.good its an effective defense fleet. there is a chance for kills on both sides. note that a defense fleet is not always the main alliance fleet."
"the longest communication we've had from him since he was elected and it's about his crap. sums up the disaster that is the current csm."
"personally, i don't think so. and 15bil is (iirc?) just the cost of the hull, the fit usually runs into several more billion isk. that doesn't seem to deter many people. then you look at how much more a titan costs, and those are still being built and lost in huge quantities. it just seems when you get to that kind of scale, money ceases to be an issue.agreed. trouble is safety in numbers is something that appeals to most people on a very fundamental level, and again there needs to be some significant disadvantage to having numbers which at the moment there isn't."
"no"
"do not want!i think an ingame store is one of the worst things that could happen to eve. it shifts the game to just being another ****ty korean mmo with an in-game store where you can buy omg gear!!1!1! for irl money.don't do it ccp! keep eve awesome!"
"no load of ****"
"i do see an advantage for everyone to get a real money drain, ccp get money and we get updates.if i knew that it would stop at this and we will always be able to get aurum for plex's i would say yes. but sadly this quote from here made me wondermy fear is that they will do this for now and in a few months when we get used to this they will cut out the plex to make this real money only.again, i do think ccp should get some kind of money drain and this is a great idea if i knew they wouldent be greedy and take it one steep further.tl;dr: no!"
"no!"
"cosmetic onlyi like bis (barbie in space); i love to accessorize, go to an in-game mall, decorate my captain's quarters with shiny wall art and such, and what not; beyond that, i'm not in favor of it."
"what's this doing way back on page 9?!anyway, another similar thread popped up (name change) with harsh conditions! it has a few interesting points, namely the one time only thing. some decent comments, here's a proposed ammendment:what do you guys think?"
"i support it, but i also have to snicker at all you folks who thought that calling yourself l33t names like 'spendingyourchilesupport' was a good idea to begin with."
"all name changes should forever list in your bio the list of previously held names. so people who change their name often, will still have a record of who they were named previously.there should be a $10 or $20 real-world fee so that only serious people would want to change their name.my name i pronounce \"jim luke\" but when i created this character i was using the french spelling. unfortunately people still pronounce it \"jim luck\". i'd love to be able to change my spelling just once lol"
"with an a.k.a., ok. it would complement well with incarna."
"i don't agree. name changing is a metagame feature and as such should cost metagame currency, not game currency. otherwise those who have more isk can change the name more often etc. besides, we don't want a new isk sink that has nothing to do with the economy in the game. it should cost dollars/euro."
"hmm, but if i were forced to use cash then i'd just balance it out by paying for my account the next x months via plex purchased with isk.i think the fact that name changes are even considered metagame by some users is the greatest hurdle here -- although it's something common in the world around us and with the restrictions being considered it not only makes it cost ineffective to be used nefariously but reputation aspects are preserved (via a.k.a. and the mass email idea presented... somewhere). why it wasn't included originally is baffling to me"
"i like it. a few more things to be worked out, 7km+13 on blasters still seems long, for example."
"blasters already have massive ammo clips, so maybe just increase the capacity of railguns somewhat?"
"just skimmed through the topic, but what about t2 ammo? if you want range with blasters you use null, which is always more range than what you propose here. talking about null anyway, fixing that will go along way towards fixing blasters. (effectively 25% range boosts while amarr/minnie get almost 50% range boosts)"
"give us our local fittings back"
"i agree with this as well. i undderstand the server load, but there should be an option to save to local disk as wellsave for corpsave for personal (local)save for personal (server)"
"i agree with ryan27996 that we should have the three options of for corp, personal(server), and personal(hard drive)"
"this is what was promised by the incursion 1.4 patch notes. and i'm all for it.ccp has yet to respond to why they did not deliver as documented. linky to my request for info.@ the csm: why is it that ccp completely removed the ability to save fittings locally?now we are forced to maintain our libraries of fittings in a 3rd party application or not at all. talk about one step forward and three steps back."
"i reached the 50 limit almost immediately. anyone who experiments a lot with how they use their ships and/or flies many different types will quickly reach their limit.the number of allowed local fittings should ideally be unlimited - the only reason i can see for a limit is the lack of screen space in the gui to list them all."
"you still have to load the cq environment when you dock. for the duration, the ui is unresponsive. i.e.: can't click on anything, can't undock because you can't click on anything, can't use the market because you can't click on anything, can't transfer cargo to station because you can't click on anything, etc."
"denying read/write access to part of the game files is going to backfire on you down the track when the patcher fails.i'd prefer the game to be written properly in the first place."
"mission bookmarks."
"then we are on the same page :)i can't, however, agree with removing range penalties on all ammo types, especially for railguns. if you aren't compensating damage/tracking for something else, it simply makes the characteristic unbalanced; railguns have far too large of an optimal range for this to work within the limitations of the other weapon platforms. changing between different ranges of ammo types is one of the few tactical advantages you have in combat that require perception, and they're also integral to many of eve's pvp mechanics. ranged ammo dictates how close you need to be from target, if you can kite them safely, or if you need to get within neut / point / web range to gank them fastest. ab's and mwd's would also be used less for maintaining particular distances and more for nano-sniper gangs that kite in a huge window of optimal effectiveness."
"so the point you're implying is that posting in internet spaceships forums is for unimportant people, and you post this in an internet spaceships forum?i'm fairly sure applying the term 'pubbie' in eve is pretty laughable, you running 'raids' or something bro?need a hug? i love you bro!"
"back to the top"
"bumpage."
"supported."
"seems like a lot of work for a 'arena' type of mechanic. what is the overall point, to have honorable 1v1 fights as you wander the universe accumulating your honor? abuse #1 me and my 'duel partner' are in a fleet and warp to a mission or other location where someone npc/group of players might be hostile to us. after we arrive together we engage your device and they can't do anything to us except smartbomb or bomb us. we can sb/bomb them as we are fit to do so just need to stay in your device's range.if the point is honor you can get that on sisi more or less, any other reason makes no real sense as single combat doesn't 'win' anything real in eve. it won't stop an invasion, won't win you space, etc so no real point to making this a module/mechanic. i could also toss in something about trying to make an mmo a single player game. i understand the desire to do things on your own but the game is mmo where if you have friends you get them to help. it just makes sense to have help and puts you at a disadvantage to 'go it alone' just for the sake of going it alone."
"interesting idea, but terrible mechanic. (using a module).why does everyone always think that the best way to solve problem x is by using a new module or deus ex machina? geez louise, the only way play balance can be achieved while at the same time \"encouraging\" a new play dynamic is through the tried and true method of capitalism and economic reward.give some economic incentive for solo victories. post solo challenges, and honor points, straight up isk, or maybe something more storyline and cooler, new npc corps like 'new eden vigilantes', 'battlenet sports', or the 'the imperial gladiators consul'. have these npc corps run 'missions' by way of players posting challenges and have others answer them. have tournaments in the game where championship ladders can be made. all matches will take place in designated systems. players can choose to make the match private or public, (publicized location, or secret) depending on whether they want to risk a griefer just getting involved with the fight.winners of the fights get isk or maybe even better, lp with the gladiator corps. soon it will be so fun to be high ranking in a gladiator corp that most aspiring newbie pvpers will join them just for training. everyone wins.the only solutions, are economic solutions."
"ccp should sell this game to blizzard"
"i propose simple ui change intended to modestly increase pilot sa on the battlefield.problem: it is difficult to tell which direction ships are moving when zoomed out, and how fast they are going. this is especially problematic when fighting in anything other than a 1v1.solution: add a visible arrow 1 pixel thick through the center of each ship from aft to bow. the arrow size should scale based on zoom such that it is always easily visible. the length of the arrow should abstractly indicate the velocity of the ship. longer if the ship is moving fast, shorter if it slow. disappear if the ship is stopped.bonus feature: allow user to turn the arrows on and off.downsides: the only possible downside i can think of is that it will give pilots more sa than they currently have. but, since that's the problem i'm looking to solve here, i don't see it as a downside, unless of course someone manages to pop me, and this was the difference. in such a case this idea would be terrible and i'd go whine on the forums about it.upsides: this is likely the best idea in eve ever.wouldn't add any server overhead as the client should already have all the info it needs to render the arrow.it could be very low point count therefore shouldn't affect frame rates in a measurable amount.wouldn't take the art dept long to come up with a single arrow model.did i mention how awesome this would be?did i fail? or amidoinitrite?"
"engine trails used to accomplish much the same thing....but u are doin it rite. (i suggest that it be part of the tactical overview.)"
"have seen this suggested several times before... once by me, haha!any way, should ccp take notice of your post instead of the threadnought several pages over, i'll give you a thumbs up!edit: gah, forgot the necessary clicky clicky of the support box... sigh..."
"yea, odd you can't do this. always thought so.a few random ships might need their \"excess\" drone bay space trimmed to stop them being boosted in missions, but...minor issue."
"grouping guns seemed to work so why not group drones into squadrons a super carrier puts out 20 drones that the server has to track instead put them into grouped squadrons it probably reduce their lag on the server a ton and i really don't see a down side to this."
"the difference is that unlike turrets, drones can be interacted with in space (you can shoot them, e-war them etc) which makes for weirdness and balance issues if you 'group' them. for example, if the squadron is a single entity with 5x the hitpoints, its much harder to reduce incoming dps by killing off drones since they'll still be doing full damage even when 4 out of the 5 would normally be dead.turret grouping was a no-brainer since it had virtually no knock-on effects on balance, it was a simple lag reduction method. drones aren't so simple."
"or at certain intervals of lost health it looses dps"
"per ccp, it's not working as intended:"
"per my ass, one throwaway statement by ccp does not a definitive comment make."
"we will see. in time :)"
"i don't really get 'unprobeable, and tend to assume you either do not know how to use scan probes or haven't trained the skills, but i'll address this comment anyway.use your dscan. it's really very simple if you have any idea how.warp to a celestial and align to the sun; stop ship, drop 1 core scanner probe and 4 combat probes, and cloak up if you have it/need it. (alternatively you can sit at the sun and look at a celestial, which will give you better dscan coverage, but your reference to the solar map will be harder to define.)hit solar system map, drop your core scanner probe on the sun with 32 au, and 4 combat probes in a diamond covering the system with 32 au overlapping coverage. cycle your probes and drop the map.max dscan range and hit 360 degree radius, then cycle the dscan. see what pops up.check your probe results for anomalies and note their location with relation to your ship and the sun, using the solar system map and moving back to ship view.rotate your view, (not your ship as it's your directional reference point), towards the anomalies that have ships in general area and decrease the dscan radius to 30 degrees if those ships are available from your location. pinpoint which anomalies the ships are in this way, then fly to the anomaly with the 'unprobeable'/probeable ship.if it's a mag or something, then just scan that down, and fly to it. problem solved.if the ship is just sitting in a safe spot, then just scan it down. i'm pretty sure if i can scan down a drone, you can scan down an uncloaked loki."
"you seem to underestimate my ability to find ships fast using direct scanner + probes and/or purely direct scanner. the comment you quoted actually told 'i don't believe it's possible to find ship using just directional scanner within 15 minutes'. yes, i know how, but also i know how much time it takes, even for person who's extremely experienced at it.also you seem to miss understanding of how current scan system works. no, you can't probe down unprobeable loki at a safe spot."
"not supported.pirate scum is doing their low-life mission invading too much already as it is. if people are willing to fit mods to be unprobable, then that's their prerogative.- you have mods and skills to probe people out;- others have mods and skills to defend themselves against that.and that's how it should be."
"translated: \"i'm a whiny pirate who can't stand that my potential victims found a way to defend themselves, boo-hoo. please, ccp, fix it for me.\"you are doing the exact same thing as carebears asking ccp to put a stop to highsec suicide ganking, but then in reverse. shame on you, and all your followers!"
"that's his point."
"so why the heck would you want to do this -- to recharacterize? or just to keep your skill list 'clean'? are you ocd?"
"it would be nice to be able to put those few sps into something i really want to train and didnt do because of n00bism. anyway i am risingson and who tf are you"
"look, sooner or later (probably later) you're going to need to retrain them as there are a finite amount of skills, plus you might need to use them someday. you might as well keep them now and just move on. and what about the noobs who make the mistake of thinking they want to unlearn something and then realise that that was their mistake and whine and whine about getting their skills back?"
"well i will survive if i cant do this but it would be nice to play around imo and this is a game after all. well true that young players could unlearn things they would need later but this could be countered by an exponential sp gain-back percentage or it is only available after you learned an unlearning skill which needs things a noob cant or wont train at the beginning. whatever. i am sure there would be a good solution for this. even a solution guys that do not like the basic idea of this would use then =)"
"precisely! and in every game there are rules that everyone plays by. so changing a rule for the benefit of a few ocd enhanced gerbils makes no sense."
"gerbils ftw and you talk **** man"
"why, thank you."
"^ this. while i'm all for a bunch of free(d up) sp, the reality is that current skills deemed useless by noobs might actually be prerequisites for something they do want later on."
"following on with the general theme, dramiels are not overpowered because:1) a coercer will kill them - yes a cheap destroyer2) a daredevil will them. been in both situations above"
"ashimmu - designed from top to bottom to kill angel cartel ships. they are also fairly inexpensive."
"hello. as a new player, i see that there are a lot of npc corporations you can work for (do missions). i find annoying everytime i take a mission, undock, and always need to right click, search for mission name, then for encounter line, then follow that line and finally tap 'warp to' line, not to mention sometimes you slip of that line and need to repeat the whole procedure again. so let's count: if u are in a mission system, you need to do three clicks...why not to make a separate space with missions name and button for straight warp as we have system information space in ui?it's the same with with mission info window, but in a good way. glad there is mission system placed as a link so you can set it as destination. imagine you always would need to write down destination, f10, search for it, then make the click and finally close starmap.imho just unneeded clicks. your opinion always welcome. thanks"
"people and places -> places tab -> agent missions"
"again three clicks? and unwanted table header with search field, buttons to cover more of beatifull eve nebulas when only one line is needed? nah, thanks."
"um.. you need two clicks. one right click (to open the menu) and one left click (to select warp).and if 2 clicks is too much, go play something else."
"ccp has said they plan on making bookmarks visible in the overview, so this should solve that problem. that brings it down to 2 very accessible clicks. let's wait for that fix, that should do it."
"what else is there to play? i've watched wow, and even hko, you torture your mouse compared to this game. :sarcasm, with a bit of honest questioning:"
"neutral rring is an old topic, the only way to correct this truely is to give them the same gcc as the ship in combat they are repping. makes the game much more playable because until then they can just dock and undock at leisure. i'm not against neutral rr's, i'm against no combat timer for any rr'er repping a ship thats flagged."
"just as the title says, incarna and all of its features (cq and other related stuff) should be made optional.that is all, you may now troll/flame at will."
"it was already stated that it will be optional."
"lol, and where exactly was it stated?log into sisi, they instaled what looks like full incarna build, with new floating ui etc...the only thing optional in there is that you dont have to wait for cq to load to use station services - station loads as fast as its used too, hangar screen is covered with loading bitmap (nice one to be honest), but old station ui is responsisve, when cq fully load you get bitmap removed and can also use cq content."
"you already have them, its called minmatar frigates skillbook. :)any proposal such as this which without much justification or research advocates changing something that could catastrophically change the play balance of the mechanics of combat in the game is usually a badidea(tm)."
"at least you are being pragmatic about this proposals lack of 'substance'. which is a good thing.i'd like to ask why though is it such a bad thing that the gallente don't have a long range weapon? (i am giving you the benefit of the doubt here, assuming the arguements to support this are true)why must all races be exactly the same? if gallente ships are indeed so gimped, then i would expect to see nobody fly them. yet that isn't the truth. i see race differences is what adds color and realism to the universe of eve. i think this arguement that all races need 'equivalent' weapons as an arguement to make all jeans the same solid blue color. it will make them lose their characteristic imperfections that make each one individual.i mean, if you give into this arguement, then soon you will have people complaining that the minmatar freighter is the weakest in armor, and needs to be buffed vs the other races frieghters etc etc. not supported."
"what he said"
"bring them back."
"are there any news on the csm may 2011 meeting?i know it takes time to write them down properly, but could we maybe see some of the notes, maybe?please? :djust some kind of update would be nice o/"
"two step posted on failheap yesterday that they where aprox halfway done with the transcriptions. i give it another two weeks."
"this"
"this idea has been defeated (unless you can think of a solid counter-arguemnt to the posts below)i think we can all agree that ecm is out of tune with the rest of ew. it has been modified, nerfed, etc. so far from its original form that i think this chimera needs to be put down. in the ensuing vacuum, i propose this ill-contrived madness: remote/directed/vectored/projected ( damage) shielding/deflection/transfer\" module (name under development). it'll be a scripted (mid?) module which:defensive script: the module raises an additional defense for a ship (one targeted ship per active module) within a certain range (formations?!) in which a percentage of the incoming damage will be directed to the user of the module (to the limits of the module users shields [and/or armor? somehow?!]) while the rest continues to the attacker's intended victimoffensive script: restricted to a shorter range (20km max skills?), a percent of incoming (shield [and/or armor? somehow?!) damage taken by the module's user is discharged to targeted ships (one targeted ship per active module) (no additional defensive value)there would be the usual stacking penalties, and with maxed out skills and multiple modules (two or three; or a limit of one per target?) i'm thinking the transferred damage should be no more than 25%. the moduule's duration would also have to be long enough to discourage quick swapping of scripts. the presence of these two scripts is intended to slightly lower the \"kill it with fire\" shooting priority currently given to ecm and logistics since there could be consequences while being more fulfilling to utilize i am worried that it could be a buff for spider tanking... what to do about multiple ships using the module on the same ship (defensive script)... rats... is this even a new idea? please give me your constructive thoughts"
"considering you get the client source code every time you download the client, its no surprise how it gets \"leaked\".rumors of server code being leaked have been popping up, but no confirmation on it yet (at least nothing suitable)."
"problem with that is the 'source code' comes with a warning that if you even look at it, they might ban/sue/send a hitman to kill you. we need an open policy on this so people can look at it without risking their accounts"
"hi,i have major issues with the way eve's market works currently (it is stupid). this is because there are rules and mechanics in place which:a) create slow price discoveryb) drains liquidity and thus ends up making pilots pay a higher spread (the difference between the highest buyer and lowest seller) than is necessaryc) do not promote a good gameplay; to elaborate, \"trading\" (especially station trading) is something which benefits the players of eve because it creates liquidity for players who need to dump or buy large quantities. to an extent this is already happening, but trading is so boring the spreads on many items which have high turnover are still over 10% (unacceptably high).so i have the following propositions:-market punishes adding liquidity: broker's fee is paid by the lister of the order and not by the taker, it should be the other way around (or no way at all). there is an incentive not to list an order. this means that everyone who may want to buy at a certain level may rather wait for liquidity to come to them in the form of a listed order, instead of providing liquidity by listing an order at that price themselves. if it's not obvious how this causes a liquidity drain feel free to comment.-the market should be an auction: all real life commodities markets function like auctions. this means that if i have a bid in the market at 50 and somebody throws a limit order at 40 into the market i will still get filled at 50. in eve i get the stuff for 40 while i am the highest bidder. this is just stupid. markets function best when they work like an auction. for some reason a \"market order\" (which means sell to the highest bidder(s) or buy from the lowest seller(s)) is also impossible in eve. you have to manually select which price you want to sell or buy at to execute at the most attractive price. -in continuation of the previous point, one should be able to give a list price and a maximum price in which you will automatically outbid your competition by 0.01isk until you can outbid no more. to prevent manipulation, one could put in a delay timer so that when you are outbid you do not immediately outbid the higher bid (this way it will become less transparent to your competition what your maximum bid is, which is good for everyone). if it's not obvious how this will lead to faster price discovery please let me know i'll explain further."
"yes."
"one trillion docking fee!"
"and when they are ganked on the undock every single time by the sov holders, what do you think they'll do?"
"play station games like they do in high sec."
"these accessories should be player made like everything else in eve, imho.it is a lack of vision from ccp to add microtransactions to eve, it is just a short term money grab, nothing more, nothing less.this will be ccp's cu, now lets just hope they don't pull an nge soon after.and to know they were doing so well with 364875 active paying subscriptions in march 2011.i predict that if they would release incarna with everything player made, subs would rise by at least 200k in 1 year, that is once player owned shops and everything is implemented. there is currently no alternative to swg-pre-cu-nge, eve could fill that gap, if ccp would not be so shortsighted."
"i have a couple of characters whose names i have grown tired of, and i would love to have the option to change them. i agree that name-changes need to be limited (even once-a-lifetime would be an improvement)"
"people who would want to buy isk for usd are going to do it anyway. name changing is not going to make too much of a difference in that market. i don't like the idea of somebody \"saving up isk\" to pay for a name change. name changing cannot affect the economic worth of any item in the game. it's akin to the current fee charged for moving characters between accounts."
"well, if money is that tight for you, then you would probably buy plex anyway ;)"
"no thanks"
"now, now, lets not make assumptions about people ;) actually, my personal views are against any sort of outside currency affecting the game, but that would be a major thread derail that i'd only be willing to argue elsewhere.back on topic: while i do appreciate your taking the time to reply, cybergh0st, could you please elaborate as to why? i think it would prove educational for the both of us"
"so basically you are whining because you cant kill 300 supercaps with 1000 characters with 1 milion sp each ?mmos have allways been like that those who aquire enough wealth and xp are marching over the noobs. supercaps require a vast ammount of wealth and xp to have, and to hold them, and an equal ammunt of ingame experience -> just look al all yours and nc noobs that lost them in sanctums, pos jb's and other embarrassing places.what you ignore in the whole nc war is that the anti-nc fleets didnt come only with supercaps , their subcap fleets ( our fleets ) already wiped the floor with yours in most battle before bringing out the supers. in fact there was never ever any super only battle from drf and friends, we just had well balanced fleets, while you didnt and mow you cry. you didnt even have the guts of jumping into our fleets supercap blobbed or not.500 including supercaps vs 900 subcaps + whatever supercaps you caould have gathered .... and you didnt even try. it's not supers broken , it's your alliances. as far as dropping lonly supers in low-sec just take a look at rooks & kings tactics , there's a lot you can learn from them."
"the day eve can be compared directly with the mass-consumer products out there is the day i (and most vets i reckon) bugger off problem with supers is that they require abnormally high numbers or supers to counter which is contrary to all other areas of eve .. there is no trick or gimmick that allows you to bamboozle a 50+ sc swarm.we had all the theory-crafting in the pre-sc buff discussions, think it took 10+:1 (dreads:scs) to kill the damn things, and that is before factoring in rr.remove ewar immunity .. solves practically all issues (solo-logistics, lowsec ganks, swarm rr etc.) with scs without making them pos ornaments."
"wrong 2 times.eve has more to do with other mmo's than you would like to admit. there are some differences but as a concept it's still a mmo.50 sc's w/o support will die from an organised fleet of 500 bs'es and if you calculate means that they (sc'es) arent cost effective to use. ofc noone uses 50 sc's w.o support that's why they seem invincible. buy why do you think noone uses 50 sc's w/o support ?btw you have never used a sc in lag have you ? just pulling out fighters might take anywahere from 10 to 20 minutes and that in low lag. so no sc's arent very good against bs'es."
"sure it is an mmo, but you are comparing it directly to the genre as a whole, a genre which has all but expunged non-playground themes.- name the mass market mmo where a relative noob has a snowballs chance in hell of besting an oldtimer through skill/decisions.- name the mass market mmo where a majority of items are made solely by participants.- name the mass market mmo where an 'early' weapon is not automatically obsoleted by all subsequent weapons (in eve terms: ship classes).- etc. etc. ad nauseum.and yes of course you can defeat sc's by blobbing the snot out of them, big whoop. does that mean that should be the yardstick of balancing though?if so all of eve should be revamped to fit this new paradigm, i am sure eve will be much better off with just 2-3 large entities vying for control .. people who don't want that can just go back to wow or whatever childish game they came from, right?"
"so it's perfectly acceptable to say, release a ship that costs 1 trillion isk, can one shot any ship every 60 seconds and has 5 billion ehp, so it needs 1000 supers to kill it or 50.000 sub caps to kill it? i mean, if i manage to buy it, i sure as hell deserve to be invincible right? and what if an alliance manages to buy 100 of them? it's bad game design to have the only counter to a ship type being the same shyp type in bigger nrs.you can not counter a 300 man supercap fleet because the servers do not allow it."
"even with the dd its only a 5000 dps push with the 10 minute timer. and that is assuming that you are shooting at a target that can take the 3 mil damage everytime, dd is only weapon in the game that deals overkill damage really, or at least measurable overkill. (>1000 wasted damage points)"
"you wholly missed one of the points. wich is supers arent invincible. shure blobs of them are hard to fight but that is tue and was true for any ship out there. they are currently on top of food chainso yes it's hard to fight a blob of them but not harder than fighting a blob of anything that would be any blob of whatever is there on top. one of the things that attract people in this games atr the massive fights. take any of the points you mentioned in previous posts and you will find it in a certain way implemented in other mmos. except the massive fights. on this no other comes any colser. this is a predsposition to blob.on the other side one thing that trully is common to all mmos is that an older player has advantage to newer players. supers are hard to come by and that's what it's all about. if they would be that easy everyone would get one and end of storry. but for the ammount of effort to get one they are not opeveryone whines about the fact that if some alliances would not have had the ammount of supers they would not won the battles they did. fact is if we nerf the supers those alloances would have still won. noone denies that. and if they do the killboards show the storry. but making supers useless once again wont fix anything.tl;drblobs of enough anything will allways winsmall ammounth of supers ( ex: lowsec) learn to deal with them : look at rooks & kings"
"no.-one fitted sc costs 8000% the price of one fitted battleship.-it takes about 2 years to get a char ready to use one properly, an then you have to keep one acc. acting as an exclusive alt or holding alt. -there is no insurance.-cynojammers can be protected with supers, caps and subcaps against subcaps alone. so doesnt matters how many supers one enemy can gather. rl skills and tactics are still the big factor.the only thing that should be adjusted imo is the logofsky/self-destruct mechanics (when agressed ofc). make the timers related to the mass of the ships, from frigs to titans.any other adjustment should be done with carriers and dreads. they should be more relevant in a supercap fight."
"i have a dream, dream where carriers and sc's send their fighters away from themselves while they sit and do what carriers do, lead their fighters from wherever they are hiding.a dream, where this is countered by convops working together to pinpoint their location, and by sb's that bomb them with something that brings their bombers in frontline to grinding halt, or simply denies reloading from them.i know its nonsense but thats how i'd like to see them done. but man's got a right to dream, amirite?random giberish beside, i do think there's a problem, and this might be the fix, or this might be too much or not enough. but doing something is better than not doing anything, and we've tried that before."
"supported"
"finally, someone on the thread who is asking the 'right' questions. even though on the surface the proposal sounds both interesting and plausible to me, the real question to ask is why people think there is a problem here. gallente are supposed to be drone heavy. caldari missles, amarr lasers, min projectiles. unless you think that current overall game balance in ships for the entire *race* is skewed, then there is no point 'balancing' just the gun types.overall, the most important play balance is this:if hybrids get a ++ (without associated -- somewhere)then gallente++caldari++which makes it unfair unless you also buff out amarr and minmatar somehow. for simplicity sake lets say that means buffing out lasers and projectiles.it makes no sense to \"equalize out\" just the guns, which are only 1/2 of a racial weapon mix.as for the megathron, oh well, there are plenty of odd ship hulls in every race which just aren't too popular due to their specialization. it's a futile exercise to try to make *every* ship equal to it's racial opponents, and to do so would be to take away the characteristics which make each race unique and the tactics they employ different."
"the problem is that rails and blasters flat out suck in comparison to other races' weapons, and drones are currently not an adequate increase in dps to compensate for this, let alone that most other hulls can use drones nearly just as effectively.i doubt we'd see so many threads about fix gallente if the problem was just in our heads."
"if they are supposed to be drone-heavy, then why do the majority of the gallente ships have hybrid bonuses and only a few actually have drone bonuses? the fall back is drones, simply because of the gallente ships, the drone boats are the only ones that have a functional niche. saying gallente have drones so hybrids don't need work is ignoring 70% of the gallente ships and 20% of the caldari ships that are hybrid bonus heavy."
"dont be so dumb matar +amarr already op compared to hybrid shipsand only half of gall is drone oriented and only half of caldari is missile so you are a total fail pls uninstallbtw if matar is projectile then take away their speed agility and scan res"
"supporting this. hated cq from the first second i logged onto sisi. i have absolutely no interest at all in stuff that hasn't got a purpose, sure it might be great in a year or three when stuff is actually added, but for now there's absolutely no reason at all, to force the players to use this unresponsive pos to do their normal instation activities.alot of us were used to rightclick on ship when in station to access drones and other simular hangars aswell as double clicking to get the cargo hold.i very often run 3-4 clients on tq where 3 often are docked at the same time, this i cannot do at all on sisi now, since running 2 clients with cq apparently requires some kind of supercomputercq should be optional"
"as i was just saying, i just played bis (barbie in space) for the first time on sisi, and i'm experiencing no problem with it whatso-frakkin'-ever. runs smooth as silk. and what are the silly naysayers on about with this being resource hungry?! bloody cq loads (in highest quality) in less than 2 seconds, has full and correct lighting, and everything works flawlessly! except for one tiny error when undocking:message: 'undockwithapparel'args: {}i'm sure that's extremely minor, though. and speaking of undocking, you can click 'undock' at every moment when in cq, and you will automatically undock. so what is all the bull about with people claiming they need to walk 30 seconds to get to their ship?!nope, i'm now, more than ever, convinced that this is eve's future, and that it should be kept a mandatory upgrade. long live bis!"
"enjoy the free game time with your plex and continue to try and skew the game to your liking.... i'm sure it will definitely help eve in the long run........ not. this expansion is a small stepping stone for players to completely walk in stations ... let me guess, you want this to become optional too once it arrives?"
"i wouldn't mind if cq were optional at all. e&b had station walking, and i always dreaded docking because the game play slowed down badly. when i first started playing eve i tried to get out of my pod while in station because i had assumed that i'd have to walk around to get stuff, but i later realized how much faster it was to do everything from your pod."
"/signthis is definately something that should be optional to load, either from esc menu or another \"undock\" button, 'cept this one would be unpod.why? because it makes no sense that you would go trough the pains of having two clients for so long, and then suddenly 'forget' everyone who plays with obsolete hardware / multilogs when its crap that doesnt even affect gameplay to the extent that new graphics did (and by this i mean; fights became more resource-intense et cetera.).why would someone not agree with the point? if you want cq; enable them from esc, or click that 1 button. not that hard, and if you dont you still get quick station load (via not pressing the button), or just unselecting from esc menu.i cant even imagine the pain of having to load cq on an old laptop 3-5 times in a 5 minute period while hauling cans, or doing something other equally tedious. not to mention some of us like to run other games on background while 20 heroic reds sit outside a station, prefenably in caps. cq will only make eve use more resources on background and thus disable, for example, my ability to run resourcehogs like da2 & eve-o.so yeah, lets please have it as optional?"
"signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"boom"
"right, this topic is not going away."
"you wish to tell, what that other character has shown me the stands, it should do a screenshot, upload it to the site for presentation pictures? and if the foreign site is infected by viruses? in fact this direct infringement of a security which has provoked itself ccp! inside the game should be a mechanism for display stands by mutual consent!"
"shouldn't have been removed, i am in support of bringing it back."
"there has to be an increase in 0.0 space as only the drone region has been opened up since the great nothern war and yet the player base has went from 10k to 40k in that same period. i second mr starks idea."
"i'm not sure thats the case, ccp has opened up a lot of new space with the wormhole mechanic, and i think that has yet to be fully exploited by larger alliances, so theres amazing oppotunities for smaller alliances to build up inside wormholes and then come out when the time is right and put a real dent in the more established alliances. i accept they can't build supercaps there, but they can make a huge ammount of isk and for reletively little risk. newer alliances should try to explore more and be more creative rather than whinging about percieved lack of space. possibly ccp should increase resources available in wormholes, that would even things out a bit"
"at least it's not cleavland."
"i support this. space isn't ment to end it goes on and on and on.scorpionidae"
"i would add that they should make deklein the connecting region to this vast amount of new space."
"why not the ability in null sec for the territorial claimant to be able to install gate/station guns? with the ability of opposing forces to destroy said guns.why not the ability in null sec for the territorial claimant to be able to hire a \"concord\" type npc entity (not as powerful) and pay a monthly price to secure the space without losing the quality of the system? with the ability of opposing forces to overcome system security and claim the system.or whatever, i don't know... just rambling thoughtsedit: it just seems to me that the ability of an alliance or coalition to actually \"build their own empire space\" would add to the game."
"if you just want 1 vs. 1 fights, go play on singularity."
"away with your fair fighting. i want no such thing.seriously tho, why would you want to fight with honour? its much more fun to lurk around in a sb, bridge in and make someone butthurt."
"if you end up in a fair fight, you're doing something very wrong."
"i don't see why not.but only as part of the tactical overlay."
"associating it with the tactical overlay seems like a great idea.i know this idea sounds a lot like the engine trails. but the shortcoming of the engine trails is they are tied to your zoom level. therefore when you zoom way out you can no longer get a feel for direction and velocity as the trails disappear into the pixel of the ship and bracket."
"first 10 to guess the year ccp change hybrids get 50 milfirst 5 to guess the month and year get 200 milfirst 2 to guess the exact date get 500 milfrom my hybrids awareness campaign fund"
"2012 summer patch.i'd say winter but meh, that'd be too soon.oh and right after that happens, world ends. thats how much they buff 'em."
"i am going to guess never, considering if they did ever change it, it will be a far cry from what everyone thinks it should be.so i win.pay me."
"2014 june 24thi am gona wait a long time for those 500 mil ..."
"24th december, 2012or alternatively when a large bunch of people go to fanfest with the exclusive intention of making the issue impossible to ignore."
"2012 june 7th"
"may 14th, 2012"
"it'll be the week before the servers close down for good."
"yes - should be possible..."
"it only makes sense. having said that, how many people have to support an idea before ccp will even comment on or acknowledge the idea. i've seen so many great ideas on here, and some with lots of support, and yet no acknowledgement whatsoever from ccp. i mean, we're coming-up with great ideas on how to improve the game (doing their jobs for them) and... nothing?this should be implemented already!"
"problem s, as a singleentity, imagine ifyou hit it with a gun that would usually 1-sho a drone, you would damage beyond that, to where you would take out hp equivalent to 2 drones when usually you would ony take down one. making drones pretty much useless when the oppponent does more damage per shot."
"easy enough to code it so the max incoming damage doesn't exceed the life of one drone."
"soo, then i target the stack and heal them, and miracle happens, the drones that where \"dead\" are now back :p"
"make is so, that once an interval(damage/health) is lost it can't be regained."
"then what about ships like the ishkur that have backup drones? they shouldn't lose their drone dps until 60% of their drones are dead."
"use backup drones like normal and don't include them in already made squadrons automaticly. their situations is in almost every scenario initially totally different from the drones already in space, so it would only create problmes if you tried to include them in an existing squadron. that wouldn't mean you couldn't add them to an existing squadron already in space, but it would mean they have to fly to the squadron location before they get added. otherwise they would function just like they do now. you would see the squadron status and the individual drone status(es) separately like you see for every individual drone now.the purpose of the feature is to just reduce lag and as a side benefit you could propably make focus fire work properly, since only a single drone behavior is used for all drones, so they couldn't go off to attack targets individually anymore. just like weapon grouping, if you don't want to use this feature for whatever reason, you don't have to."
"to be honest i like the idea for caps, afterall to make fighters or fighter-bobmers effective they'd have to fly in a formation anyway, plus it'd be just that much cooler to look at.i cant agree with normal drones whatsoever to most extent."
"care to clarify what makes a loki unprobeable. i have scanned down a warrior i drone that someone left sitting in a deadspace pocket which had since expired, bookmarked it, and warped in and picked it up. i find it hard to believe that a loki without a cloak could be unprobeable considering there are no modules or implants which are designed to defeat scan probes. and sure as hek, they don't have that small of a sig radius, even with the implants."
"loki has base sig rad of 150m too, right? a few conjunctive ladar eccm scanning array i's would do it."
"the part you're missing is that i need to fit all those eccm mods at the expensive of something useful i could have fitted instead. so, my ship already can't reach its full dps/tank potential, just because pirates exist who invade missions.for every offence, eve should (and does) offer a defence: you probe, i defend. that's as balanced as it gets. it's ridiculous that ccp should hardwire it so offenders can always win."
"hell, no.ridiculous just for you, maybe.by fitting eccms you lose tank; you don't need overtank for l4s (and with eccms tank is still sufficient), so you can keep all the rigors and bcss if you wish. this already has been discussed in this or linked topic, please check."
"just saying 'hell, no.' doesn't make it any less balanced.what should be enough to fit to survive is irrelevant. the issue is that i already need to sacrifice dearly, just to defend myself from being scanned down. that sacrifice alone is the balance between you fitting mods to scan, and me chosing to fit mods to defend against such scan. and, since ccp always favors the aggressor as it is, i already need to fit more mods to defend myself than you need to fit to scan me.so, what's next? you're gonna petition to do away with warp stabilizers, because, god forbid, someone might outfit your points on him?"
"your arguments are countered by the fact that such ships are keeping isk/hour efficiency (it is irrelevant for you, but not for me - remember, still the same offensive capabilities and tank enough for l4s) and ridiculous price of eccm mods. if making ship unscannable would cost +2 bils - noone would whine here.warpstabs can be countered by additional points/bubble, unscannable setup cannot be countered by additional probes/probers. so no, they're not going to be next."
"a single ship can only fit so many eccm mods, whereas you can bring an entire swarm of probers; so it's entirely reasonable there's a ceiling above which you cannot go -- and that said ceiling be lower than what a single ship can defend against.see, bringing more points at a gate is fair: you then simply outpoint the ship you're attacking. matter of superior numbers. but with scanning it's different: it's basically -- to stay in the same terminology -- like putting un uncounterable point on the entire system from many au's away. where's the equity in that? if that weren't counterable, you'd always win. which is of course what you want: people should not be able to defend themselves against a scan-down.seriously, if ccp is going to rig the game in such a manner that pirates always win, then i will seriously need to rethink whether eve is still worth playing. and no, you can't have my stuff."
"i can't bring.can you answer why it's different?exactly. people should defend themselves using a bit more interesting ways from gameplay's perspective.if you'll leave when ccp makes each and every ship probeable - i won't cry."
"already did explain: the difference being that you can do a system wide scan, from a huge distance, with absolutely no risk or danger to yourself whatsoever.i could say the exact same thing in reverse: people should be able to attack others using a bit more interesting ways than just doing a system wide scan from afar and jumping on defenseless missioners not fitted for pvp.of course you won't. let's just hope ccp has the calm of mind to think it thru properly and won't give in to every pirate's petition for 'more powerrrr!'and if it's unprobeable t3's that do boosting you're upset about, ccp could simply make it so you cannot fit any eccm mod next to warfare link mods and/or command processors. problem solved. but even there, what's the harm, really? you fleet them, the enemy does; again, perfect balance."
"if you undock you should be also probeable in sensible time. we could also have honor system or something if we have unprobeable ships."
"in the name of play balance, there should be no 'invulnerable setups'. no absolutes. no insurmountable tactic that is unbeatable.if the system allows for these situations, then the system is broken and needs fixingin these bad play balance situations, i am reminded of the starcraft zerg rush. before blizzard fixed it by taking the number of starting larvae around a zerg hachery from 4 to 3. all zerg players cried foul. but the truth of the matter is that without the change, zerg players employing the zergling rush tactic was unbeatable. i support this."
"exactly. being scanned down should not be an insurmountable tactic that is unbeatable: people should be able to defend themselves against it. in the name of play balance, please don't give pirates an 'i always win' button.edit: to this i would like to add the rationale. probing down is essentialy a form of ecm. for every ecm there should exist the possibility of eccm. simple as that.drones can be scanned down because they cannot defend themselves to ecm -- which is fine. players, however, can fit eccm mods on their ships. what people are proposing is an unbeatable form of ecm. that should not happen."
"i like your example. also i like how you blatantly missed that even with full meds of eccms you still can be jammed, lol."
"i love it , just adds another great option to the eve universe"
"wait, so if you are moving players...and the ferry gets ganked..yeah that would be cool."
"the people who owne bpo's are makeing all the money ..the people tryin to invent and sell fo a peoffit .. total waist of time . you might as well just give your money away your spending all this time and isk to invent a t2 bpc and when its all said and done your makeing -isk when you want to see +isk for all your hard work .. i don't know about you people ,but when i got to work in the real world .i dont want to be handed a bill for my hard work . thats what inventions feal like .. i do all the training (6 months to a year and still going) i buy all the stuff (countless missions to get the bpo) i do all the me and pe (wow that takes a long time ) now that 2 years of my real life is gone i have 3 or 4 t2 bpc's and all they can do is make 1 ship or what have you (wtf?) so i try aging . go thrue all the steps above minunulls the training .the bpc im about to try has 15 runs on it ( thats max for this coppy to have ) once its done .........1 run .sale is 900k total envested 3 years well over a billion ..in closing bpo's vs inventions ....nurff the t2 bpo's or make inventions cost less and produce more .."
"oh look, this thread again!"
"i think around 95% of market t2 goods is made trough invention, if you are not profiting, you are doing something very wrong.t2 bpo's are literally few (i would guess less than 20 per item) and there are many hundreds of players running invention. while, with few inventions slots each, while t2 bpo owner can produce using one slot at a time."
"laziness is a secret ingredient that goes into failure. but it's only kept a secret from the person who fails. robert half"
"i miss back in the day when you could choose your skills in the character creation. now i'm stuck with (another character)that has mining skill but is training for pvp. i'd like to be able to retract the mining skills and apply them to a pvp skill, since it (the mining skill) was thrown in my skill pool at creation.edit: clarification"
"^^ qfti'm a gallente pilot, and i'm damn proud of my choice. sure i had to spend time training other races to be overall more effective in eve, but when i got in my first abbadon, t2 drake, etc. i felt a sense of accomplishment.suddenly making a \"once in a lifetime reset\" would have diminished that greatly, and its just flat out for lazy people who aren't willing to admit \"maybe i won't use this skill in awhile, oh well, time to keep improving myself\"."
"how to nerf the supers easy lets make like a scarrier have around like 10mill max eph, and a titan around 20mill max. they are not ment to be cost effective, and reducing the eph to around a third of what they had will make them more vunerable.no ship class in the game should only be able to be countered by more of it no matter how much it costs.also an easy way to fix dreads would be to change siege so that you can move for 5 minutes but you get alot more dps. basically dreads lose tracking penalty so they can do full dps to the supers, but they also lose tank bonus but can recive rr. though they are committed to the fight so if something goes wrong they are stuck for 5 minutes at least.ps:i am throwing out some numbers so those will need to be tweaked."
"how about just buff dreads so 10 ~ 15 sieged dreads can alpha kill one super carrier in one volley ??sounds fun ??"
"10m ehp on a supercarrier would be silly, that's 4 doomsdays to alphastrike it. all you'd achieve is that up and coming alliances with small numbers of supercaps would never dare field them unless they were sure that nobody else nearby had their own active supercaps.an ehp reduction might be appropriate but if so they should still maintain 70-80% of their current levels. the main issues with supercaps at present is their unfocused role (they're effective against too wide a variety of targets) and the aggro timer's role as a get-out-of-jail-free card."
"or they would be if they could actually catch an angel cartel ship that isn't being flown by a dribbling moron."
"two ideas to improve scan and make it easier :first to introduse customisible templates.it's annoying to drag this arrow each time to make a new formation of scan probes.simply premade em 4pr with 4 au ,4 pr with 2 au ,6 probes with 0.25 au,etc save em and here you go)second idea to make better damned direct scanwe don't need a click fest each n sec.we need smth looks like a normal radar.and of course notifying signals if smth can change .for ex new ship,probe,etc on direct scan we hear an notifying signal"
"the issue for the array is now the change we had about a year ago that said ram required = runs*unitsram*damage%it changed toram required = runs*unitsramfor drones, this resulted in a 2000% increase. for those (hi devs, bhs, and inventors) who cant do math.that means for every 1 you previously needed, you now need 20."
"could we please have the ability to add more than one person to a private contract, separated by a comma like eve-mail? i can think of dozens of situations where this is useful and it cannot be done, and one is forced to issue corporate / alliance wide contracts which can get stolen."
"way to catch the 90-day timer."
"whats the point, we already won eve."
"i mine on six accounts in six boxes. it is mind-numbingly boring. i physically click and drag etc the whole time. the only thing that keeps me sane is i play games on my xbox 360 (like ncaa football 11) while the mining is going on, monitor the cycles and run the ice/ore to the station when needed. it's the only way i have found to cope with how boring mining is...edit: as far as legalized macro mining, i do not support it."
"back in the day before t2 and all the new stuff it was possable to pass through 20 systems in 0.0 before you came across anyone. instead of fancy modules and stuff why not just introduce more systems, that would enable smaller alliances to grab a bit of space as hopefully the bigger alliances would be to stretched to protect huge areas of the map. apart from drone space has any other area been open up since the great nothern war? we had 10k people on line back then with almost the same area of space, so now that there is 40k people how about opening up some more space."
"possibly you might want to change the sovreignty upkeep system so it works in a similar way to the way wars work, with the alliance claiming sovreignty being charged more for each new system they claim. so for example, while an alliance with one system would pay less than the current ammount, maybe 200mil/month, each new system would cost 250mil/month for the 2nd and 300mil/month for the 3rd and so on until it becomes financially unattractive for the alliance to control a lot of space that they don't use."
"and then you'd just have thousands of alliances with two systems. tnt., tnt.., tnt... etc etc."
"as i said in my thread - just get rid of docking permissions.that is all you need to do to make it easier for smaller corps to live in null space. from the perspective of a corp that doesn't really care about building a sov empire, but only wants to live in null space, such a change would be the equivalent of making the entirety of null space into npc sov. there is a reason that so many neutrals go to curse - npc sov adjacent to empire. even with doril/sendaya camped every day - plenty of neuts flow through that gate and dock up perfectly safely in any of the dozen stations nearby. there is a reason that curse is such a great region - and it has nothing to do with angel rats."
"there was a guy that reverse engineered the server way back during trinity or summat."
"ah, that was before my eve time, so can't really comment on it."
"i agree on the broker fee argument, maybe split it 50/50 between seller and buyer.i also agree on the suggestion that the markets should work like auctions. however, this would have little impact, as your bid orders are typically filled by direct sells, not listed sells. finally, i assume you trade, yet you complain about too large spreads and inefficiencies? does not compute. i want spreads to be large. for that reason i also do not support the idea of having a list+max price for automatic adjustment. it would reduce 0.01 isk games a bit, but mostly benefit lazy traders, less so the active ones, hence not supported."
"you are kidding, right? i always thought that tnt was a 0.0 alliance, i guess not. i can't even count the number of times i've docked in doril. even with local full of hostiles, i still manage to dock and undock fairly easily. it's not that easy to \"gank\" neutrals that have docking rights, on top of a station. the only time it really occurs is if someone gets aggro. but none of that matters. if ccp gets rid of docking permissions, and instead uses some docking fee (like 500k per dock), more people will move to 0.0. entire corps will move and try to live \"under the radar\" in hostile sov systems whenever an alliance claims more space than they can rightly control. and, with a docking fee, the sov holding alliance has an incentive to just let them live there. sure, roam over there and try to catch a few every now and then - but camp the station with a blob for a week straight to chase them off? only if you are an idiot, or they are working with your enemies."
"i forgot, hic's (or hearvy interdicters to make some devs understand where im talking about) could use a slight buff. hp would be nice and or bubble range would be nice, buff bubble range to 25 or 30 km at l5. when bubble is up the penalties are just too worse. everything can simply burn out or u need to put your mwd on that makes u as big as a battleship = u die. light dicters are much safer to use and hic arnt exacly cheap (200 mil min t2 fitted). light dicter can drop simple bubble and cloak or burn off. hic is in bubble alwasy agroo's and a juicy target."
"noi would say cosmetic only . . .but thats the thin end of the wedge, so nogtc is too much already."
"umh, hell no? no? **** no? the hell we're taking it. njet, ei, intte. nein."
"no !"
"they should also enable server transfer and race change for a fee too so that you can *really* escape your reputa - oh wait."
"lets stay focused on the topic of the thread which is name changes. in regards to the escaping the reputation part of your comment, in what way is the 'a.k.a. tab' idea (and/or mass emailing idea, etc.) insufficient?"
"based on the crappy performance i have seen across numerous computers with cq along with other issues i fully believe this should be optional. this is eve (a spaceship game,) not world of darkness in space."
"cq should not be optional. this is a feature of the game that should have been there from the start, and now ccp wants to integrate it into the game as if it had been there from the start. if we had always been exiting our ships upon docking since the game was released, we wouldn't be having this conversation."
"no, we wouldnt. because if we would, the code and computers used to play the game would go hand in hand.i dont buy that you dont understand the argument of introducing new graphical stuff to a game versus playerbase with multiple clients / not so good computer. its the same story as moving from expansion to expansion; when the new graphics came along, something that arguably could have been in from start (presuming your point of view, i know its not realisticly possible), they let us keep old clients long enough that only odd bunch had computers bad enough to run the old client only. now we got computers that have been streched to max running the new client, and adding new stuff might get them on the fritz. therefore its better to not force them to load cq, and give them the option not to. this allows us who want cq to have it, but allows those who do not want cq not have it. who loses? now could you please give some backing to the claim that it shouldnt be optional, and how it affects your gameplay if i dont want to use my cq on my laptop, for example."
"when p/i came out, i tried it, didn't enjoy it, and don't do it.when incursions came out, i tried it, enjoyed fighting sleepers more, and stopped responding to incursions.when cq comes out, i'll try it, and ask for the option not to use it if i don't want it.supported."
"i have nvidia 8800gt.cq with high settings - 10fpscq with low settings - 15fpsin space with high settings - 60 fpsdefinetly must be optional.something wrong with that cq graphical engine.horrible fps values. fail.if ccp force players to use it, many people will be disappointed.and what if i want to run multiple clients... its unplayable."
"pls just optional not more just pls optional"
"edited into first post, and posting here as well....ok so ccp have added (on the sisi test build) an option to not load the cq environment.this is good, but not what i was asking for, this helps those who have performance issues with the in station environment, not those who had rp/immersion issues. please keep supporting for having a regular hanger view on docking (ship spinning and all) with a neocom button to enable us to disembark to enter cq when we want."
"no, because they were overpo...oh, wait, supported"
"wait, are you saying that you want the names that people want to change? or is it that you think a longer list would somwhow degrade in-game performance? i'm not trying to be sarcastic, because i do think you have legitimate arguemnts, i just don't think i'm getting it. but if we're talking about sarcasm...lykouleon, thank you so much for valuable input, if not for that glorious debate on fine points i don't think we could ever have reached a mutual understanding.lemme fix that. actually, that is rather surprising considering there are some supportive comments herei'm gonna assume you're mature enough to handle this bluntly: if the pirate spent hundreds of million isk or tens of dollars/euros just to kill you, i think he deserves it. the whole point of charging a fee for this service is to make such things cost ineffective."
"scarriers do need something done to them, or however (and probably alraedy proposed) make dreadnaughts xlarge weapnons far more devestating when used against scapsthis has two effects, revives the currently underused dreadnaught and brings down the i win button effect of super carriers.but supported as somethign needs doing."
"not down the same path as your ideas, but a way to counter the super carrier blobs could be a capital size smart bomb, or, give dreads 50% added damage / range pr level on smart bombs when sieged. also a capital ship warp disruptor to fit on carriers that can hold down super carriers / titans would solve a lot of the issues."
"seriously. it was epic. not sure why it was removed in the first place. please bring it back. flummoxp.s. i can care less if this is the 420th topic about it."
"thank you to those who commented intelligently."
"why not for a reasonably large fee build a stargate taht opens up a new system?"
"after seeing the replies i think my point has been misunderstood and the application of it is rather short sighted.i never said anything about a fair fight. you can force someone to be in a 1v1 without it being the least bit fair for him. being fair is not the point, its more about ambushing without the ambushed being able to get help and how they can be used in fleets where certain ships can enforce 1v1 against another ship and simulate rl warfare ambushes and guerrilla warfare. try to look a bit beyond the obvious.in real life military combat, you cant really call for help whenever you want. there are a thousand things that can get in the way of your calling for and getting help, even if help is only minutes away if called. in these situations getting killed usually happens in an instant. a sigle special ops guy can take out another guy without the other guy or his buddies ever being able to call for help or knowing. in real combat a scout can get dead and nobody really knows that it happened. soldiers, ships, planes can be cut off from others without communication or help, get killed and nobody lives to tell the tale. the ability to strike a vulnerable target or targets of a group, kill it and withdraw without getting killed, then repeat is a essential aspect of the few being able to hold off or defeat the many.in eve this particular aspect of warfare is completely eliminated. you cannot \"ambush\" a scout battlecruiser or hac without getting gang r*p*d by the whole fleet, before you can even dent his shields. you cant kill it fast enough and everyone just warps to zero on him, and even if you kill it, you would be next. only way this happens is if the scout runs into a gang big enough to kill him before help arrives. its the only way.in eve you cannot eliminate communication and third party knowledge of the event so you have to use game mechanics to create the strategic option of such combat. people talk on ts or whatever and can always say whats going on, where they are, and give critical tactical info even if killed. the only avenue left to you is to restrict acesss to the ambushed and at the same time, restrict access to the ambusher as neither the ambushed or the ambusher would be able to rely on support in these kinds of situations. all i was saying is that gang, perma communication and warp to zero, the very mechanics of eve, eliminates a very very important aspect of warfare which has been around forever in rl, used often and which opens up an enormous amount of possibilities and can eliminate the advantage of numbers in many situations. im sure im not the only one who would like to see the \"blob effect\" somewhat mitigated by the ablity to isolate and kill by dedicated ships. in rl the many can often be defeated by the few, up to a point and its a very important aspect of guerilla warfare and not only. in eve, they cannot, so you have to use game mechanics \"artificices\" to compensate for the differences in rl combat. it would make it possible for smaller corps or alliances to stand toe to toe with larger ones if prepared."
"there is no way at the moment to kill a straggler ship without getting killed in the process. you wont even kill it, you will just die. the whole fleet with lock and alpha you before you even get a shot off. all the strategy is pretty much rinse and repeat. its all alpha maelstrom + scimitar, alpha abaddon + guardian, tengu with scimitar. the strategies are always the same with no real counter. basically dps the hell and tank the hell outa everyone and if they get in range, they dead. its that simple, but warfare is not. there are a thousand other factors which are not present in eve and should be. i'm not saying to allow the ambushers to ambush anyone and isolate anyone anytime, but only under certain conditions which is distance from the group.there are plenty of people who like the group thing, who like blobbing and who like things always the way they are because it works for them. the point of the system is not to work for you, its to be balanced so everything can be countered with something else. it is possible to make it work and eliminate the abuse of it so that it does what its meant to do, and not be used as mentioned above. thats just technical though.anyway, this was the whole point of this suggestion its not 1v1 for the sake of 1v1, or because i got blobbed to death, or because i cant get enough friends to play with me, or because my alliance sucks. its 1v1 because i cant think of any other way to mitigate the numbers effect and create endless strategic implications."
"i'll be sure to tell this to the multitude of gangs who do exactly this on a regular basis. if you're shooting a straggler a system or two behind the fleet, there is no way for the fleet to get you. if you're shooting a guy on the same grid as a hostile fleet, they aren't a straggler.as for your last sentence, exactly why do you want that?"
"1. i cant remember the last time we had a ship fall that far behind2. i cant remember the last time a small gang survived attacking a straggler bs or bc or managed to kill it before we got there. the fastest of us got there and tackled the gang, the rest is history.3. warp to zero on fleet member is all-mighty. more than 150k away your buddy gets help, less than that its likely the attackers will get sniped by alpha fleet. (which is what most use these days)how often do you find a single ship 1 or 2 systems behind the fleet? you need a gang to kill a bc or bs a system or two behind the fleet. takes less than a minute for a fleet to get to you, or the fastest of the fleet. you wont kill much, i guarantee it. we have had plenty of slower bs or bc get attacked either head or behind the fleet, mostly behind, by small gangs or single ships. i cant remember the last time we lost 1 to that.i want this because it opens up an enormous amount of strategic possibilities which are available in rl combat but not in the simplistic eve combat. its also stated above that its main purpose would be to lessen the effect of blobs, making room for some tactical and strategic options which will allow smaller gangs to engage larger ones and actually do serious damage without being suicidal. a lot of skill would be required and a good fc to be sure.there are a number of things that can be done to make eve combat a lot more ummm...strategically evolved. this is just one."
"how is it we killed a dread, albeit badly fit, without support showing up? how is it that we repeatedly got carriers doing sites to hull before local spiked and had to flee, how is it that we managed to kill every bs and t3 that was stupid enough not to dock soon as our scouts entered?have you tought that it might be your gang composition if you cant kill a lost sheep in time, before the farmer shows up with a shotgun? out of curiosity what fleet setup do you run if you're struggling? 'cause very few things (excluding bait ships for obvious reasons) should be capable of tanking a small gang solo long enough for it to matter, if they arent caps. and even then its so-so if you bring the right composition."
"um...stupid caps, isolated incident. im talking about a fleet vs fleet fight, not a drop in a system where you catch 1 ship with pants down ratting. that's not warfare, that's kills of opportunity and do not constitute a viable tactic that would make a difference in a larger conflict.i never said we cant kill a single lost sheep. i said we hardly ever lose one. my post arises out of a lack of tactical options when faced with highly superior numbers. it does not arise out of my particular situation. my current position, actually, happens to be on the side of strength in numbers which is impossible to beat. our enemies have no options other than show up not to lose face. they stand little or no chance of doing any damage. there should never be an un-killable army, an all powerful ship, an \"always use\" setup...we currently have this and i find it lame and to be an indication that there is something wrong with the game. because of the inflexibility of game mechanics and tactical options, we are hard or nearly impossible to counter.with regards to improvements to the game i like to look at the whole thing and not worry if such a change would make my situation better or worse, rather will it make the game better or worse. my position and situation in the game is irrelevant. its about fun, variety, options, balance and creating an overall intellectual challenge. 95% of the players in eve do not favor a particular change simply because it may alter their current position. they do not care how it affects the game as a whole. look at the above comments..."
"post 1: fair enough, so your idea is a module that enforces 1v1 fights. i can live with you suggesting it, its an bad idea and as said before, if you're in a fair fight you're doing something wrong.post 3: yes, well fair enough its not fair if he's in a bc and you're in bs. i'll give you that.wait, now there's a fleet? i tought it was ment to be used when you engage someone 1v1? and shouldnt you not engage if there's numbers in local / disengage if local spikes? its called trap or bait if its intended to make you engage so you cant gate away.post 4:so basicly you're saying that if you engage their light ship their fleet chucks out an alpha that finishes you off? thats fair enough but the hell were you doing engaging their light ships on grid / on solarsystem with their fleet, and why didnt your fleet already nuke the straggler and bolt out of there unless you were looking for fleet vs fleet, in which case module does squat for situation?post 5: so basicly you did mean fleet vs fleet from beginning? whats up with the 1v1 theme then? post 6:so basicly attacking some bs or bc thats alone isnt the point anymore, but its fleet vs fleet? i just tought that few posts above you said it needs to be some straggler bc or bs... wait what the hell are you on about, are you high? targets of opportunity do not constitue a viable tactic? someone need to tell this to every military in the planet, and isk farm machines that no-longer feed the warmachine does not affect the big picture? or the discontent of pvp'ers being unable to protect pve'rs (pets or other renters)?anyway could you please condensate your post to 1 large post where you have consistency trough the post, and keep to a single scenario instead beginning from 1 and adapting it and claiming the other is wrong whenever you're presented with counter-argument."
"\"my ~internet honor~ is besmirched, good sir. *slap*\"\"i dare say, you have transgressed, my companion. i now wish to meet you upon the field of honorable combat.\"\"have at thee, nave!\"*glorious combat*...wait...internet honor? in my eve?"
"mayan calandar says the world ends in dec. 2012. soooo january 2013"
"a month after all the dev's get bored with their current rides."
"august 6th, 2021"
"hi guys,i want to note, that the ships are problem and rails, blasters as weapon are ok. the blasterboats really needs a agility/speed bonus and the dronebays needs a dronespeed bonus. that should solve the dronebays and gunboats have getting their damage to the target. only rails needs a boost."
"probably they wont do anything ,lazy ass matar biased team..."
"they say t3 frigs about 2014 right?you can safely say then 2016 for t3 frigs and hybrids/gallente revamp about 2020.hybrids: rip"
"ccp themselves said to the csm that they don't have plans/ don't care.i can support this like so many other proposals, but it will not change anything."
"this should have been ingame back when i first played in rmr, or did exodus come before it? anyway i remember training repair drones and then spending hour or so trying to get them to me, must have gone trough every menu. my support to this, and prefenably to full revamp of lil' buggers. drone controls are somewhat annoying."
"first off, i think you're playing the wrong game and also this might just be some troll post of yours. not sure...if your topic is real:then i think it is a wonderful idea... if... if you do not feed the pet at least twice a day, and provide whatever hydration it requires, then it should die. yes. you read that correctly: i want your pet to die.you should also incur veterinary bills as well. you should have to \"take care of it\", either like a stupid tomagachi (look it up) or a sim (trademark retained by eagames). which means you can't just leave it in your cq all day long while you afk cloak and go to the mall or watch own.you should also have to bag the ***** and properly dispose of them. sweeping them into the hallway is not allowed.i am not sure i can hate this idea as much as it deserves.flummox"
"wtb space whale."
"i want my own slaver hound, to which i can feed minmatar slaves and remainings of minnie pilots.no, it cant be just any pilot. altho them frenchmen should also qualify as adequate snacks."
"i want a hobgoblin hovering in my quarter guarding the door."
"wtb a p$ssy cat."
"at first blush this does appear to be... but in light of your recent replies i think it's evolving to something with real legitimacy. i encourage you, zxmagus, to edit your initial post to incorporate these clarifications to better represent your idea.but no support just yet, as you haven't dealt with the hurdle of ew"
"1. corp always gets kr's, as for gangs, that could be very greatly exploited2.exploitable...3.you do get killrights and if you don't get the theif in 15 minutes, you're not going to4. what? i don't understand that. also how do you define merc corp, it would take forever to code for that."
"would it, really?i mean the guy's a troll but its a fair point; merc corps should be capable of 'taking the killrights' from carebears via corporation deal of sorts; basicly \"carebears alliance\" hires \"we smash stuff\" to protect them from flippers and sorts; when someone flips carebear alliance's can, we smash stuff gets killrights instead carebears.that'd be kinda nice, if 1 corp has system where they heavilly do **** they could hire an corp by the hour to post guard to gates & stations."
"you have the right to remain silent."
"formal treaties where one corporation inherits the rights to shoot at another corporation's thieves? i could support that.hasn't ccp talked about a proper treaty system, before? this feature wouldn't be too much additional work on top of the rest of the treaty system."
"basically you are going about it all wrong. if you want to catch any unprobable t3 you get them at a gate or at a station undock. the counterexample in the linked thread for 'not giving up much' also can be caught by just about any self respecting frig pilot on a gate and murdered in seconds by his gang. honestly if you think a ship with 10k raw hp, a 7 second align time, and a 200m sig radius is invulnerable you are seriously mistaken. don't believe me? fly that tengu from ossogur into amamake on a weekend and see if it is \"invulnerable\" like you think it is.if you choose to gank mission runners you should gank them at their most vulnerable - on a gate.while i like that the proposal is more balanced than most i've seen i still cannot support this idea since i do not see being unprobable as being a problem.as an aside i feel there are much more important issues to tackle - i.e. faction war and how faction frigs have obsoleted half the t2 frigs in the game, sovereignty post dominion, angel ships and how they are comparatively superior to there pirate faction brethren in most respects, supers and how they have taken over the roll that used to be filled by normal caps and support fleets, the inability for newer players to ever be able to compete in the t2 markets at the level of those owning t2 bpo's, the terrible state of pos's, epic arc iteration, corporation roles, balance of ore distribution among the 4 empires high sec, separation of the empires, redesign of the t3 cruiser class as a whole - legion and cs's need i say more?, etc."
"try live in 0.0 in hostile enviroment.its not so easy.you need a 2 bil ship if you want do missions effectively.this ship die in 30 sec in pvp.in a hostile local everyone hunting your pimp ship, try shoot bump at station, try scan down safes etc.you need jump through gate? if you are a pro pvp-er you know, you can catch every t3.so using gate is deadly move.you need logistic.. just try it ... your cyno shooted podded,your carrier bumped, maybe hotdropped.its doable but not easy.so living in a hostile enviroment its pain in the ass.unscannable ships the only way you can do it, and its hard style living.unscannable topics are whining because cant shot us, and we are concurennce in market.so whos whining?:d"
"wise mission runner doesn't jump into nearby system if he noticed hostile activity. if he wants to risk, he'll fit covops cloak and interdiction nullifier.you're wrong.[tengu, tengu fit]tengu defensive - amplification nodetengu electronics - dissolution sequencertengu engineering - augmented capacitor reservoirtengu offensive - accelerated ejection baytengu propulsion - fuel catalystheavy missile launcher ii, scourge fury heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, scourge fury heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, scourge fury heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, scourge fury heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, scourge fury heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, scourge fury heavy missileconjunctive gravimetric eccm scanning array iconjunctive gravimetric eccm scanning array iconjunctive gravimetric eccm scanning array irepublic fleet 10mn afterburnerpithum c-type medium shield boostermagnetic scattering amplifier iiballistic control system iiballistic control system iiballistic control system iiballistic control system iimedium capacitor control circuit imedium capacitor control circuit imedium warhead rigor catalyst iyou're telling it a person who's been living in low/zerosec since day zero. also yes, i exploited unprobeable setups myself, and only after comparing usual setups and unprobeable setups i came to conclusion how 'unscannable' feature is broken, imbalanced and boring.hell, no. it may be the only way for you, but it's just because you're not experienced at all at it and can't handle living in hostile system without using exploits."
"as usual, you got it figured backwards. it is you who can't handle people being able to defend themselves in a hostile environment. and when it turns out they can, you scream foul, and call it an 'exploit' even, lol. you want the semblance of a balanced game... as long as you and your probes can always win."
"i sense an entirely new scam coming on for goonswarm. think about it. new alts of goons haul a person around and then their friends pop them xd"
"good idea. also should be able to haul around other players. scoop pods to cargo, even."
"i'm afraid the logs don't show anything, so it is a lie. sorry"
"i totaly agree with the statement that we need cake o_o"
"towels are imbar. cake is ok."
"cupcakes > cake.support this."
"not supported because a cupcake is when you fart and waft (sorry don't know how to spell) it into there face.scorpionidae"
"spam thread.locked."
"not supported, since cookies > cake > all[edit]nice lock there, navigator ;)"
"actually,they used to until they started making life less harsh, less harsh being the same as dumbing down (that is notan insult to yourself, but what those games did to recruit more folks).if anyone played eq1 you gotta remember (prior to the all easy to get your body bak bit) corpse camping and losing levels. i remember some one one saying about eve being a very cold game, it is, its the harshness that makes it stand out. i feel your pain and frustration but, i think its part of the game, and an important part of it that sets it apart from wow and other assorted crap. there are things in eve that are very \"unfair\" but i really dont believe this is one of em."
"isn't that what bob used to say?"
"i actually had fun when partaking in mining frenzies pop a beer, listen some good music, talk **** with your mates...then again im a truckdriver in real life so bite me, i suppose hauling 'n all that jazz is just in my blood? edit: oh yeah, definetly not supported. please bring in random roams of npc's that appear 100-150 clicks away from belt and slowly close in so normal belt ratter gets away, and once they get in they cook everything alive. unless its an protection detail of combat oriented ships, in which case mining-escorts would have something to pewpew. everyone wins?"
"\"legalizing\" it will only gut mining as a profession by reducing the value of minerals to rock bottom. i prefer the much more vigorous stand against them. let active players compete for mining prices.. not auto miners.fail post. sorry but dropping prices in no way discourages botting. if anything it encourages the practise, trying to out pace the reduced prices. in the same vein, artificially increaing prices on plex would cause botting to increase as well. eve runs on the free market, micro-managing that market is a mistake; allowing botters to ruin that market is a mistake.. bots should be caught and banned as fast as you can find them."
"i don't see the problem; you've got goons to represent 0.0 and nc to rrepresent high sec."
"whether you like mittani and company or not, they are the elected representatives of the players (that's us, including you). complaining about the csm is basically sending a message to ccp that you don't want them to pay attention to what the csm says. that's not good. csm is a good thing. heck, even a bad csm group would still be a positive for eve overall and csm6 is a long way from being a bad group.full disclosure: i am not a goon alt or, in fact, an alt at all (say that 3 times fast ). i'm a carebear mission runner 90% of the time, so mittens and co. don't directly represent my viewpoint. guess what though? they're my reps to ccp so working with them is far better than complaining about them."
"and as i said in response to your threa, whole point of 0.0 is to allow the players to have sov and make their own rules, what your wanting is to mae 0.0 npc space pretty much, which is stupid, because then we may as well not even have 0.0. te whole idea of making your won rules and doing things how yo want is the essence of 0.0.now i do agree that docking permissions could be optional, like some people whod ont really care who is in their system can put out docking fees, but removing docking permissions entirely is stupid, if i dont want you in i shouldnt be forced t let you if yo ahve enough in your wallet (because lets face it, most 0.0 corps have alo of isk, so an meager fee that woudl allow smaller alliances to roam from outpost to outpost would not ebnefit the corps as you sad in your thread.)and on topic of this thread, if you wanna make it as a small corp in 0.0, get soe battleships or other heavier hitters, and wait til large alliance throws around a large bulk of its leet attacking another power-bloc, then you go inand sat abshing pos in a ssytem you want far from their battle, now as longa s you are attacking one of the power-blocs that isnt too bright in troop placement (yo know who you are), then mos of the caps will be in the main battle and be forced to either a) sacrifice the system your hitting or b) sed troopps and risk losing the battle theyre removing troops from.though my opinion isnt all that heavy due to me never really spending much time in 0.0."
"on one extreme, you could build a system which gives sov holders complete control of systems - including locking the stargates or placing guns around them. on the other extreme, you have a system where 100% of systems are controlled by npc factions (some will be law-abiding, others would be pirate, but none would be player controlled). eve is currently in the middle, with regards to 0.0 sov. i'm not arguing that it should go to either extreme, but if a widely held goal is to make 0.0 space more accessible - the answer is extremely simple: get rid of docking permissions.so what if you want to lock players out of your stations? i want to anchor guns around my stargates - sov holders can't have complete control of their systems at the expense of improving the game as a whole.the real opinions that matter are those belonging to empire corps that \"want\" to go to 0.0 but don't for whatever reason. how many of them would be willing to give 0.0 a go if they could dock without fear of being locked out? that's really the question that matters. compare that answer to the loss of sov holders control and you can decide whether the change is a good idea or a bad one.another way to look at the change - it would help reduce the blobs. why is this? simple, many corps and alliances want blue status with a sov holder primarily for docking rights. sov holder agrees, in exchange for an agreement to help defend. that is how coalitions really began in the first place. i've been there, in alliances that wanted docking rights and made those types of agreements."
"afk cloaking does not give a large alliance an advantage over a small one.. but i like how you tried to sneak that in there.afk cloaking, if it exists, is doing nothing. no player is present right? it's the non-afk cloakers you need to worry about as a small undefended group. calling this issue \"afk cloaking\" is just an attempt to demonize cloaks in general in order to effect a nerf to cloaking. face it it's not the afk you care about unless you are just sour grapes over not being able to kill a ship you can unfairly spot with local."
"messing with the source code no matter how a player got it is against the eula and will get you perma banned on strike one. the appropriate way to add a plug in to eve is through the third party api."
"this change is supported by me."
"what's your basis for saying that such a rebalance is required. justifications that begin with \"i feel that\" and \"it seems to me\" are not sufficient. based on what hard evidence does suicide ganking need a rebalance? i'd like to see some numbers showing that actively piloted* ships are in danger disproportionate to the rewards that they can gain.for instance, i've used faction/t3 ships to mission in hi-sec for 4 years, and i have never even had an attempt to gank me. likewise, i frequently move valuables through high sec, and have never had an issue. the high frequency of expensive, expensively fitted ships in mission systems is circumstantial evidence that the danger of ganks is not high enough to make these ships not worth using.*i think we can all agree that people who are afk do not deserve any special consideration."
"i say make insurance more realistic.you have platinum insurance, you lose a ship (no matter who is at \"fault\") and your individual insurance premium goes up.as stated before; you lose your ship in a war or null sec environment, no payout."
"very well put!"
"how was the hulk fit? could another fit have made a difference? do you honestly think removal of insurance would stop this? didn't you find that post funny?"
"no! not even for cosmetic."
"no. if there was an option to express a stronger version of no, i would choose that instead (i.e. wtf you idiotic goat raping reerees!)"
"in so far as local is being used for quick identification. (somebody already said this earlier)off the top of my head exploit. i'm a rich null sec alliance ceo. billions in the bank. i grief for fun with my alts, (how else do i get my kicks? :)every time my name change timer expires, i send my alt a blob of isk, and have her renamed to the ceo's name of a rival corp who i want to grief, plus a \".\" or some other hard to notice character at the end. fly my ship into enemy corp home, kill as many as i can.nobody is going to bother to check aka in the character sheet unless they are suspicious. and you only get suspicious after you get shot at."
"i can counter in one phrase, \"not blue shoot it\"(nbsi). this is pretty much the standard for anyone operating in low/null sectried and true quick identification is done through standing (nbsi). if they're red, they're hostile (shoot it); if they're blue, they're not hostile (don't shoot it); if they're neutral, they're neither and thus a risk (prepare to shoot it ~depends on the corp policy).are you saying you're flying around in unsecure space assuming neutrals are your best buddies? names really dont matter...again, standing. just because the name is similar -- in no way whatsoever does that mean a similarly named greifer has the same standing -- he/she wouldnt get any further than he/she would with any other name in that case (nbsi)you're suspiscious until you're getting shot at, then you're not suspiscious anymore, you're certain (nbsi)c'mon kaelie onren, i was expecting better from you"
"then you will end up with just another ac copy. i for myself would like a blastership that is actually suitable for real point blank pvp again. this includes that it liberates tacklers at point blank just as good as my puls and ac ships does this at 20km today."
"dont forget that's on a ship with a 50% range bonus."
"add that your dps at the end fall off is tremendously ridiculous.add that someone looking at your ship will think \"wallente=blasters\", he will kite you with his 425mm auto-canons at 20km ad burn \"ya\" face while you're looking at it without being able to do anything.unless your in gangs your probability of survive to fights is higher against noob ships than everything else.training minie stuff and auto-canons has finally completely changed my game experience to something positive."
"a hybrid improvement is definitely needed, and making rails most useful at long ranges, not only keeps them unique, but it makes them useful.as for blasters, they need a tracking increase which is mentioned by op as being used with short range ammo, but there's something else they need which can't be done by fixing the guns: blaster ships need more ability to close with their targets in the form of rebalanced webifiers, web bonuses, and/or mwd bonuses.i also like what someone else posted in this thread about reducing the number of range brackets, having so many of them becomes overly redundant since you don't have the space to carry that many ammo types, nor the time to swap them out. instead of a range continuum, break the ammo into range brackets like projectile ammo. longer range would do more average damage and shorter range would have better tracking on average, but there would also be a variance in each range bracket: in each range bracket, perhaps there could be a light sabot that has good tracking, but doesn't do the most damage for the range bracket, theres one in the middle, and theres a heavy slug that has low tracking for that range bracket, but does the most damage in the bracket, possibly out-damaging the tracking ammo in the next range bracket.example:antimatter -short range, uses less capacitor, highest tracking, low damageplutonium -short range, uses less capacitor, high tracking, low damageuranium -short range, uses less capacitor, high tracking, medium damage.thorium -medium range, no cap change, medium tracking, medium damagelead -medium range, no cap change, medium tracking, high damageiridium -long range, more cap usage, medium tracking, medium damagetungsten -long range, more cap usage, low tracking, high damageiron -long range, more cap usage, low tracking, highest damage"
"i'm not insulting your lack of understanding. here is one such situation that i believe you'll see why some get upset about this change.i'm in eve university and, as many others have said - we store off a variety of fits to give out to new players in the game as they are learning and progress. 3+ of most frigates, the same for destroyers, cruisers, battlecruisers - pve or pvp? got it. here you go...it is rather annoying to find that you suddenly don't have access to a huge array of fits that you once could easily link to other players. delete -> add -> link... sucks. give me back the local storage link abilities and all is good."
"the return of the option to not load a station environment at all is a very good thing and i thank ccp. :)the immersion issue remains, however, and \"pretend your character didn't decant\" is still not a valid workaround."
"i don't want it to be optional in terms of \"i don't want to use it\". i want it to be optional in that \"i want to choose when to use it.\" you already have the hanger ship spin system in place. surely it would be easy to just put an icon in the neocom that says \"leave pod and enter cq\" or whatever. how hard can that be? you have cq. you have ship spin hanger. is there some sort of serious failure in the eve client/server that prevents the marriage of these two components? surely the best of both worlds is better than forcing a choice of either cq or a permanent loading graphic?i support ccp in bringing incarna to life and i have faith that by the time this expansion comes, this option will exist because i like to believe ccp know what they are doing."
"yes, cq needs to be optional. implementing these three choices will make everyone happy:\"always dock to cq\"\"prompt to dock to cq/station\"\"always dock to normal station environment\" (with a button inside that to switch to cq)but of course this is not enough for ccp fanboi trolls, who are already all over this thread, explaining how everyone should be forced to always use cq. why? because they said so."
"on sisi now there is an option to load the station environment. unchecked it and no captains quarters.your cries were heard and ccp listened. enjoy."
"yes, and if you'd read the most recent posts in this thread you'd realize that although this is a nice development it does not address the core concerns here."
"reading comprehension fail."
"the joke is on them and every other troll who has dropped by, because their posts bump the thread and bring us closer to 5+ pages.it doesn't really worry me that so few have bothered to support this. there have already been more supporters than most assembly hall threads get, and the issues of immersion and optionality are almost universal regardless. as long as those issues remain visible at the corner of ccp's eye, there's a chance they'll take notice and spend the mere ten minutes it would probably take to implement the three options morar santee reiterated and/or return the classic hangar view to default and add a \"decant\" button."
"if they keep the hanger and add cq then it's a better eve than just having one or the other. i don't really understand why this wasn't on the table from the beginning. if there is a specific programming issue then i understand, but i don't think there is.like i have said in other threads i actually really want to use cq a lot, i have been waiting for it for a long time and i know cq is just the first step so it's limited. but i always just assumed that it wouldn't change the functionality or structure we have in place now. the fact they have noticed the issue probably means they will implement the hanger. we will see anyway. if they want the game to be better and more interesting then they will do so. my only worry really, is that ccp believe that if they don't force people into cq then it will just end up as a dead feature because of the outcry by many people that cq is just crap and they don't want it. if that is the case then i feel sorry that ccp has been made to think that. because cq will work, even if we are not made to use it all the time. it will work because it's different, new and has potential to grow. allowing players to use the feature when they want allows eve to continue to be played by more people and has more immersion."
"i don't buy that you don't understand the arguments against making cq optional.foremost, change is the law eternal. without it, eve will stagnate and die. so, if you don't force cq on people, they will keep their crappy hardware. they won't upgrade to something better, because they don't have to. that hampers the graphical development of the game significantly. after all, with cq being optional, the entire other graphical environment can't really be substantially upgraded either (for the same reason cq was made optional). so you're back to square one.now, to get back to your question as to who loses, the answer is simple: eve as a whole loses. it will again continue to linger around the lower standards, inevitably slowing down the further development of incarna, as you can't possibly make every future aspect of it optional.people are mostly rather egocentrical. as evinced on this forum, they reason like: \"my system won't cut it, so i want the game to stay at my low level.\" see, me, i'm different. let me give you an example. when i bought hydrophobia: prophecy, a few weeks ago, i realized my old gtx 285 could only pull ca. 20-40 fps. so, what did i do? i could also have said: \"poor me, i can't run your game, boo-hoo, please lower the graphical bar for me!\" instead i simply decided it was time to upgrade my hardware and bought the gtx 580. of course, much like here, the folks with the crappy hardware, incessantly whining about it on the forum, got their way: the devs eventually caved, and lowered the system requirements. sigh. i would have much preferred if they had just stuck to their guns, effectively forcing people to get with the program and upgrade. would have been better for the game.with the advent of cq, i thought ccp had finally broken with their old ways of catering to the lowest common denominator. i applauded that. guess i did so prematurely."
"there is no reason it cannot be made optional and i for one, shall miss ship spinning."
"1 thing is for sure. incarna will be pain in the a$$ for lots of us."
"the issue is not to scale back cq graphically. the issue is that the interface is better if you keep the ship hanger + cq. it kills two birds with 1 stone, and makes sense from a roleplaying perspective."
"my thoughts exactly. make it an option. why would i get out of my ship and shuttle down to my quarters, and get out of the pod, and clean myself off, and get a fresh change of clothes everytime i want to dock off to drop off 1 unit of holoreels from my battleship just to undock again 5 seconds later?"
"more options please."
"lmao!oh, ccp.... they're favorite pastime is russian roulette."
"really? then everyone would leave this ticked on, all the time. who would want to see \"new\" names, ever?easy exploit:name change grief #1i supported this proposal at first, (with some hefty hefty real money cost to changing a name) but i'm not so sure anymore. if you didn't take naming your character seriously when you started. you should start a new character. or pay someone in china to farm a new one with your new preferred name and sell it to you.your name is like an email address. you can't just have it changed that easily."
"hypothetical situation: (assume 300,000 players)number of people who would like to change their name because they didn't really think it through the consequences of their name when they signed onto the game. 5% of the population, 15,000 players (liberal estimate)number of people who will see this as a new social engineering scam, and will try to exploit it.20%, 60,000 players.now add to this the amount of extra gm work to deal with the name change cases (we assume that they will be screened somehow before a change is allowed -- checking for negative standings etc) and the extra grief that will come from the 60,000 players trying to scam.oh, and also the name change isn't going to improve the game balance, add new dimensions to gameplay, nor bring in any new revenue for ccp.so from a purely business perspective, i would say there is no incentive for ccp to allow this. make 5% happy, open up exploit to 20% and add more work to the gms.===now what if they did nothing about this:5% of paying customers get grumpy and whine. maybe some even quit the game. let's say its only will be those who just started playing, because if you are so invested in your toon to want to get a name change instead of just starting over with a new toon, then its safe to assume that you will not quit playing just because you didn't get your name change. you will be angry, you will think its unfair or unjust, but you will still play, and pay ccp.the only people who would legitimately be allowed a name change by the gms, are those with no negative reputation. and those who are new to the game, would just as easily start a new toon to avoid the rl cost of a name change.so, we are left with the only people who would benefit from this proposal:high sp, good rep players. who may just want to change their name from johndork211 to john dorkin.let's say that small niche of people are just 20% of the ones who want to change their name for non-scamming reasons. so if we exclude the 80% who want the name change to avoid a reputation, then we are left with: 20% x 15,0003000 people, made happy, or made grumpy but will still play the game otherwise, with 60,000 people trying to scam.not worth it, i think is ccp's reasoning."
"^^ best post in the thread."
"no, it really isn't, sunk that theory on the post below ityou ignored the fee. looking at those figures you described it would be extremely profitable: (15000+60000)*x let \"x\" equal the fee being charged and even at the cost of one plex (a number most agree is too low) we get $1,125,000. sounds good to me; lets leave ccp's reasoning to ccp, ok?...but the scamming apocalypse you're expecting isn't going to happen because it's neither tactically, reputational, or cost effective to utilize nefariously and efficientlyreally? still think so?"
"since when was mining/ratting for 10 hours a day considered enjoying eve?htfu."
"open up your scanner, anus."
"thismaking it optional is the way to go, there are a lot more reasons to keep it in game, as opposed to how many reasons (one?) there are to remove it from the game."
"would be interesting. perhaps a wh leads to an unknown system that a corp can build a stargate in to connect to a stargate they built in the system the wh was in.edit: clarification"
"apologies, the whole \"solo honor\" part in the thread header may have led me astray. i must be having an aneurism, what was i thinking???[quote]you can force someone to be in a 1v1 without it being the least bit fair for him. being fair is not the point, its more about ambushing without the ambushed being able to get help and how they can be used in fleets where certain ships can enforce 1v1 against another ship and simulate rl warfare ambushes and guerrilla warfare. try to look a bit beyond the obvious.so are you asking for a \"i win\" button for pvpers to freely go about ganking miners without the miners help being able to warp to zero to guard them? are you thinking of the actual ramifications of your proposal beyond your 1 scenario of fleet vs fleet tactics? most of the time, basing a proposal purely based on rl or 'reality' reasons don't stand the litmus test. while i admire your desire to fix game balance (which as you mentioned, is the *only* noble goal for any new change in the game mechanics) i believe you haven't properly examined the follow-on effects of your idea, which net-net, may serve to only unbalance the game in favor of pvpers vs non-pvpers."
"i see in your response you seem to be changing what you originally said, might not have been your intention but what it came off was \"i want 1v1 for honor/fairness\" not \"i want to be able to ambush a single ship w/o having them call for help\". there is a difference and i think you did really bad at explaining that as i, and i think others, didn't pick up on that at all. you made no mention of stopping their ability to call in help, just listed it as one of several things your module would do.for that i'd think a module to prevent communications or prevent warping to might be a solution. comms seems less exploitable, as the warping issue can be abused to make people unwarpable/invisible and people ***** and whine about 'unscannable ships' as it is. i could get behind a module to jam your ability to use ingame chat channels, provided there aren't other considerations i can't fathom at the moment. stopping warping seems to be much more problematic and i'd have to say no without lots more information and debate.as it stands a sb can do some of what you want, but no comparable tech or tactic can isolate an enemy as you seem to be describing and i don't think eve needs something like that or even that it would be a good idea. if you can't take someone out with a sb, or have them scrammed when you make the first strike i don't think you should have extra 'rules' enforced to allow you to put them in what amounts to a pen so you can take them out. jamming their ability to ask for help, in game, is one thing and maybe disrupting their scan signature so warping to them is 'broken' for fleets and that might even be too much. the biggest issue i see with this is you want a fake mechanic to let you drag someone off grid into an arena so you can duke it out one on one which is just ridiculous. catching someone when they are actually alone on grid and making modules to help you keep it one on one is much different than dragging them into an artificial thunderdome in space."
"^^this"
"changes come over time...remember when raven missile boats ruled the systems?yeah...give it time..."
"i have heard this before, \"it's just that armor tanked gellente ships are slow and fat. if there was a shield tanked nano blaster boat it'd rule!\"if this were true everyone would fly a ferox.blasters take up way to much powergrid (try to get a full rack of neutrons on a demios), and have a comically short range.rails have terrible tracking and sub par dps. even with the awful tracking they could be reworked into a decent sniping weapon. but they need a lot of work done on them.also hybrid turrets will get fixed 2 weeks after i finish training the \"large artillery specialization\" and \"large autocannon specialization\" skills after making the mistake of rolling up a gellente character.we could make t-shirts for fanfest. on the front will be the large item images for a railgun and blaster (like the icons in your hangar) with the words \"fix hybrids!\" underneath. on the back of the shirt will be a screenshot of a myrmadon firing autocannons."
"i propose a new t3 defensive subsystem: 'fortified sensor reconfiguration,' and do otherwise away with ship unprobability. being a defensive subsystem (with the otherwise same layout properties as the amplification node, except allowing for only 5 high slots), it would automatically mean you can't fit the warfare processor at the same time! that's the beauty of it. it would elegantly solve the issue of unprobeable t3 ships doing boosting from afar (which *does* seem overpowered); yet it would still allow the lone missioner a way to not be invaded in mission.edit: perhaps in abundance, but in case it wasn't clear, the 'fortified sensor reconfiguration' would make your t3 unprobable, and it would be the only way to do so."
"sounds like a good idea to me.edit: i like that it uses the samesubsystem slot as the command subsystem. the name i can't much agree with, but it would be different for every ship type. i'd go with something like stealth related, as that is what it actually does. the package may be electronic in nature, but the only affect it is likely to have on ship sensors is changing their broadcast to short range waves. that would effectively limit scan probes ability to detect a ship based on it's transmission of radar, ladar, or other sensor waves.here's a rough idea:caldari defensive subsystemcovert reconnaisance reconfiguration5% reduction in signature radius per level20% increase to sensor masking per level (unscannable w/ level 5 defensive subsystem skill)structure hitpoints 40 hp mass 1,400,000 kg volume 40 m3 capacity 310 m3 shield shield capacity 2950 hp shield recharge time 1730000 s shield explosive damage resistance 50 % shield kinetic damage resistance 70 % shield thermal damage resistance 80 % miscellaneous tech level 3 meta level 1 targeting signature radius 134 m armor armor hp bonus 2150 hp armor em damage resistance 50 % armor thermic damage resistance 86.25 % armor kinetic damage resistance 62.5 % armor explosive damage resistance 10 % fitting med slot modifier 1 low slot modifier1 restricted to ship type tengu"
"not supported, i don't like exceptions to game mechanics. my view is all ships should be probable, the problem atm is it requires too little effort. it's also worth noting that fleet command ships can also be easily made unprobable as can any other ship with an abundance of midslots and nothing else to do with them."
"well, that was pretty narrow minded. here's what i got so far: all ships should be probeable, pvp should be easy, and everybody should be forced to participate and be ganked. right, let's move on shall we.perhaps you should have actually read the thread."
"i'm afraid it is you who is narrow minded. i said no such things about making ganking people easier. i think all ships should be probable without exception, but i also think probing is far too easy in it's current incarnation. i don't really know of any viable ways to make it always possible but more difficult and time consuming short of simply increasing cycle timers, which is a pretty lazy \"solution.\""
"not gonna read through 11 pages of this.this seems like a no-brainer. maybe it should be t3 drones that allow this? or a skill... or just a simple setting. we have passive setting and aggressive setting. just make one more that says \"defensive\" or \"logistical\" or somesuch... fin.flummox"
"i like this idea. it takes away from dps if they are used this way and they can still be destroyed. it seems like a no brainer to me."
"+1 supported! +1 supported! +1 supported! +1 supported! +1 supported! +1 supported! +1 supported! +1 supported! +1 supported! +1 supported! +1 supported! +1 supported! +1 supported! +1 supported! +1 supported! +1 supported! +1 supported! +1 supported! +1"
"i'd like to see a 200% locking range and 150% shooting range for siege mod.this will make dreads a role as snipers in super cap fights. at that range, tracking isn't a problem.10 minutes siege time is good for the sniper dread fleet move around the battle field before enemy super caps get in close range.sub capital fleet will become real support ships in tackling and anti interdictios for capital fleet."
"i'd like to see a 200% locking range and 150% shooting range for siege mod.this will make dreads a role as snipers in super cap fights. at that range, tracking isn't a problem.10 minutes siege time is good for the sniper dread fleet move around the battle field before enemy super caps get in close range.sub capital fleet will become real support ships in tackling and anti interdictios for capital fleet."
"the answer to sc bloat is not cap bloat. i'm sorry, but i think you're completely missing the forest for the trees here. the problem being presented by super-caps is that their ehp is such that combatting them with lesser ships causes grid problems (read as: lagggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg).if you simply push dreads up you're stratifying things at the cap level and drawing another line whereby subcapitals become even more irrelavent, all the while leaving super-caps at their level of impunity."
"maybe they are keeping them this way because dreads are to become valuable again come dust514 in their role as planetary bombardment?(it is what 'battleships' do best afterall, relative to carriers)"
"a slaver hound would be cool if you were amarr, but what about everyone else?"
"i think it's more of a pov of players that have been in since the beginning. the game's appeal then was it's cold and harsh nature. for the most part it has remained that way with improvements and introductions of additional content to heighten the cold and harsh feel.however, the addition of vanity items for cq and now a proposal for \"pets\" tends to leave a sickened feeling in the stomachs of those of us who view eve as a step above every other game out there. wowifying eve to make it more warm and fuzzy destroys the premise of the game being cold and harsh.the direction eve is going in tends to make me sad..."
"well the only way this would work is if each type of drone is put in it's own squadron i.e say a super carrier launches 10 hobgoblin 2s they get put in their own squadron and if he launches say 10 dragon flies they get put in a separate squadron. i also like the idea of making it so there is a skill component to it, for arguments sake lets say that advanced drone interfacing now lets you control 1 more squadron per level."
"ah, i wasn't clear: drones can receive ew interference, right? i know they can be webbed, which would make the whole squadron of drones an easy target with only one lock, but i haven't tried other ew"
"i'm pretty sure you can use e-war on drones, although i haven't tried it to make sure. the only possible exception i can think of is whether 2pt warp scramblers de-activate a drones mwd like they do for a ship."
"i suggest that shuttles should be able to autopilot warp to 0 on stargates. this would allow them to fulfill there role of the individual transport tool.if this is only allowed for shuttles then game balance would still be preserved.-mal"
"i can not support this idea. no ship class should get a free ride."
"warp to zero is killing this game enough already.not supported."
"will this be included with the coming incarna, or is it planned for later release?"
"solution: don't mine into jet cans.edit: spelling error (i just woke up)"
"this.i could support that as well but as it stands in this thread, no thanks."
"it's not an invulnerable setup unless it enters combat, kills 15 ships solo, and flies away without a scratch.what we're talking here, is a ship that can't even solo vs. solo pvp unless it seriously outclasses it's agressor, and uses threat reduction to survive rather than aggressive tactics. f-35f-22stealth bomberany of those ring a bell? this is real technology and completely feasible, and in the case of the f-22 it even has high threat potential.you whine and cry because of nothing more, than wanting to be able to kill everything and have no one escape unscathed. this isn't starcraft, and if it were the stealthy race would lose do to inaction. even here it amounts to much the same most of the time.i really hate the thought that eve should devolve to hack and slash gameplay with no other content or options. just pvp all the time, everywhere. we should just put permanent bubbles on all the gates with stasis fields out to 30 km so you can fit all gank and just pop anyone who comes through.edit: yeah, i forgot. the eccm thingy is a joke and shouldn't exist in game with it's current effects. i'd remove that and do away with unprobeable setups just for the sake of realism. what we need is a real module that is properly defined and functions accordingly. i never really caught on to the eccm thingy before it was mentioned in this thread, and no wonder why. it doesn't make the slighest sense.what we have is a module that stabilizes the sensor package on a ship, and makes them more resistant to ecm doing the opposite, and shielding the signature of a ship against probing. that is actually a form of ecm, not the other way around."
"^^ this. finally a guy who gets it.the gravimetric backup array already does as you describe: it's just not potent enough on its own; and it's not ecm, as it's totally passive, and just increases your gravimetric sensor strength.also, i don't see much use for a single 'unprobability' mod. currently you need skills, the right ship, and some expensive implants (to do it comfortably). i don't want every drake to fit it (and before you ask, yes, i've flown a drake for the longest time). i believe unprobability should remain within the realm of t3 ships only.if ccp were to nerf t3 ships in such a fashion that you wouldn't be able to fit eccm next to warfare link mods, to boost remotely, i would be okay with that. because, frankly, being unprobable and being able to boost remotely, that does seem a bit overpowered: we do, after all, not allow cloaky ships to have activate mods running either. but mission runners, using unprobability solely for defensive purposes, i see that as a viable, and balanced tactic to try and stay alive against a universe otherwise rigged to favor the suicide ganker."
"i was thinking more along the lines of taking the eccm mod as it is, removing the silly sensor boosting, (which doesn't even work vs. npc frig's in level 1 combat missions), changing it's name to 'sensor masking electronics package' or something for mid, and 'stealth hull reconfiguration' or something for low, then adding an appropriate description to match, and showing actual calculable effect for what it does. that would make sense."
"it is feasible and detectable. ever heard of 'radar cross-section' term? any of these planes can be detected and locked, depends on the distance, environment conditions, plane radar cross-section and power of radar array. let alone using other methods - like heat and optical detection.it's ongoing war between poison and remedy, where nobody wins. i don't see any competition in eve.making ship completely indetectable by radars you'll also make it 'blind' radar-wise - and there's already such device which imitates it (or tries to, because it doesn't make ship completely blind). it's cloak.as for special module for making ship less/un-scannable - it should cost vast amounts of money, like someone mentioned here 2 bil, and take up significant amount of ship resources. because in its current form eccms are too much benefit for ridiculous cost. and if you mission run in hostile local, there's no point in using scannable ships at all. i don't see how game can be balanced in such conditions."
"only if your probes cost you 2 bil too. :)"
"its seems so you dont know how it works.we hunted misssioners in 0.0 for years. what we can scan that will die. we scan anything less than 1 min. the prey will never seen a probe on the scan.we killed several unscannable t3!! too. scanned down safes with his unactive eccm modules.scanned down exits with directional scanners.we can scan your site and sit in with alts. we can wait you everywhere.we can use drag bubbles. we can open covert cynos. you see only one hostile at local, never seen his ship , never seen probes. you die.if you are in a faction ship, you will definetly die, faction ship our favorite prey.if you are in a bs, not bad.if you are in a drake? fun to kill.if you are in a unscannable t3, we will try kill you.we can watch you several days to watch your spots, watch your online time, where you go when.if you make one fault, you die.if you know how this things work, and you are unscannable and you are very careful, you will live. and you deserve it."
"again, tthe best thing you can do is not letting mission runner to complete the mission. it's draw, when you waste your time (you = gang of 10+ ppl, i suppose) and mission runner wastes his. if you gank him - you win, if he finishes mission - you lose. basically, unscan makes mission runner to always win.if you can kill somebody who sits at the mission for 1+ hour and lets you scan him down w/o noticing probes - it's his own problems.there're even ways to exclude any undock gank risks (and no, it's not undock bookmark + interdiction nullifier), whcih, combined with unscannable setup, make your ship purely invulnerable."
"basically, scan makes gankers always win.there's no weapon in eve, be it warp-scramblers, webbers, ecm, etc., that allows operation across the vast space of an entire solar system. arguably -- when it comes to player ships -- probes are thus already overpowered as it is. you certainly shouldn't be allowed to receive your extra \"i always win from across the other end of the solar system!\" button, though."
"all those electronics crammed into one ship must surely interfere with other systems:introduce deviance (similar to what applies for warping to a probe result). increases as ship approaches 'unprobeable' status until it in effect cancels out the warp to zero feature (0-15km deviance).how is that for drawback"
"introduce:1. a view with time code for the chat window, like in the log files2. corp internal afk status - i want to see in the chat window if the person is afk or not, or i want to give info to my corp that i am semi afk i.e. when tending to price resets. corp internal cause it doesnt make sense if i tend to prices, and people outside the corp see when i go afk. this is just to live manners - i usually answer if i am asked something, but i want to show if i cant answer straight away.3. either make the \"charakter notes\" viewable per mouse over, or allow me to group corp members / people in my contact list when they are alts of someone"
"1. right click the text, you can toggle timestamp.2. supported3. you can create categories in your contacts."
"1. cheers - playing for 2 years and still learning3. that i did know, but its impracticable as i can't see it in the chat window. i would have to look it up in the adress book. if the label would be viewable by mouse over it would be a start. best would be if i could drag and drop pictures like guns and group them in the chat window."
"i already answered that. i want to use the sps for something i really use while playing that game now and not specualte on things i might need before i die."
"you read the part in the proposal about the haulers reputation being displayed to all, (their cargo loss rate vs success rate, etc) the associated loss of ferry license if it's excessive, and the ability for a passenger to specify a certain quality of hauler who would be allowed to move them right? because that would make said scam only work on stupid passengers. which frankly, then they deserve it."
"sorry to burst your bubble, but while we can only really speculate, here's about how it works.t2 bpo held by anonymous highsec alt of major nullsec alliance director/leader in jita copies bpo multiple times, then puts it in queue for research for awhile. out of jita 4-4 station, he manufactures these bpc's into tech 2 ships for sale in jita 4-4 station using nullsec supplied parts made from moon goo in his alliances multiple pos facilities. calculating cost of manufacture for tech 2 invention, he markets the manufactured tech 2 vessels accordingly to drive any potential competition into the ground, and happily supplies his alliance and himself, with a fortune in isk from tech 2 production.t2 researcher spends much time on failed research attempts even with max skills, and produces occaisional t2 bpc's from invention runs that prove quite costly, then contracts them out for usually less than the effort and isk that went into them. these t2 bpc's are then purchased by players who are relatively ignorant of the costs associated, and may save as much as a million isk in the production of their own t2 ship, while purchasing excess moon goo parts off mighty nullsec alliances.either way, the nullsec alliance makes the isk, and the highsec researcher gets shafted.if you haven't tried invention, i suggest you have a go at it, and see what it's like for yourself. -4/-4 bpc's are always fun to manufacture from, and even with level 5 in all associated skills, only see 1 in 10 successfull inventions from t1 bpc's if you're lucky. take into account that you have to spend time copying the t1 bpc, use datacores and hard to find, somewhat costly decryptors to increase your chances or better your results and it's really no competition. the nullsec alliance with all the cards up their collective sleeve wins every time."
"i keep reading how that makes no sense and the way it is done is to keep your tech 2 bpo making the item/ship and not waste time copying it so you can then produce off those while doing more research on it.while you are correct the moon goo holders always make isk off their exclusive goods the simple fact is if you are working to do invention and not making a profit you are doing it wrong. if it isn't profitable you don't do it, it is that simple, you might end up sitting on some bpc's for prices to rise or sell the bpc's on contract but if you are doing it right you make isk.op complains about how horrible he is at figuring things out after he does all the work, buys everything, etc. then there is this:best i can tell is he is using max bpc for ships to do invention which is pretty much a waste to gain at best 1 extra run with whatever decryptors he might use for the time it takes to make a max run copy of the bpo . tldr: op is bad at math, planning, understanding the basics of markets, etc and this means more profit for people who are good at those things."
"i can tell you that the timer doesn't have to be 10 minutes.while trying to gain sec in lo-sec (doing some blockade missions) it seems that the time can vary from 10 mins up to 14 mins.and yes, it puzzles me why the whole sec gaining thing takes that much efford.i know people who would like to do some other things than being a pirate but the thought about shooting npc forever just keeps themfrom getting their sec up from -10 to somewhere near -2. especially when you are getting to -3 / -2 it will take even more time because it works with procentual gains."
"pathetic - incredibly slow and lethargic - and why no one pays attention to the csm any longer. this whole forum area is a dead zone."
"the minutes need to go through a drafting and review process. at present, 8 of the 18 sessions have gotten to the first draft stage."
"for people using mining as an income stream, macros hurt their bottom line since each hour of mining becomes worth less and less isk.for manufacturers, they don't care. they buy, manufacture, sell at a profit - with sale price being determined by cost of inputs and processing.for pvpers, more expensive minerals will lead to more expensive t1 ships and modules and thus more valuable killmails."
"beyond value of killmails,t2 and super-caps would skyrocket, meaning nt ony are killmails more valuable, bt more people would be required to start traveling in t1 and t2 sub-capital groups, and caps/titans would once more fall into the core, but not bulk, of any armada, like aircraft carriers in ww2. they re important, not as common, and killing one actually hurts the toher team instead of \"lolololol buyz some more mnrals from zee zombies and get buildin!\""
"who are the \"nc\"?"
"is there a simple, hard-and-fast list of what the csm has done? not minutes, not notes or suggestions.a bullet-pointed list of in-game stuff that the csm has had a hand in."
"as a wh resident for over a year, i am thrilled to see w-space represented. every past council has droned on and on about changes that most w-space residents won't take notice to, and it is my hope that maybe some changes in the future can help mold w-space from a difficult, never-changing style of play to a difficult-yet-fair dynamic element of the game.i have read the ideas you have posted for possible revision and cannot agree more on all of them.on 1 more note, there shouldn't be any haters for this guy being in csm. most corps would do whatever they could to get an edge or protect their interests, and holding the exploits of many against an individual is either a poor attempt to find a scapegoat or anger and frustration from in-game matters pouring out into the forums via e-hatred and e-tears."
"two step deserves props for two-stepping up. he is the most active alt, and is helping with the drafting of the summit minutes (using the video recordings as he was not there).if he keeps up his current pace, i will have no reservations about endorsing him in the next election."
"thanks for your advice but i think the disapproval expressed here, and the relative silence now, indicates your opinion is in the minority. ccp knows why there is so little support for the csm this year. no need to worry about that."
"christ - yah slow motion fights instead of fixing lag. hope ccp shows slo-mo in their video promos from now on. that will bring in pvp'ers by the millions. unreal how people latch onto this as some wonderful thing when its a travesty. oh but it does have the new csm's blessing so it must be good - jeez. utter crap. calling slo-mo reduced performance 'matrix-like' does not make it in any way acceptable compared to what is promised."
"i agree with litraly everything posted on this page. at least make them like their t1 variants but with cloaking and covert cyno or bridging abilities for normal ships to covert cyno's would be interesting but i think what ever ccp does they should revisit the bo stats in this next incara update at the end of june"
"ccp please give the black ops some loving...pretty please"
"i support this since black ops ships are basically on my list of future skills trained..."
"a graphical change to the warp start/stop would be awesome. also a change to the in-warp graphics would be nice also"
"agree, warp needs a little bit more epicness.it it can't be changed to this, then such effect (me or st movie) can be used for cyno jumping i think. will look good."
"this!"
"sure, why not. :)+1"
"yes please. maybe a flash of racial ship-colored energy to go with it?"
"oh god.. yes yes yes... always found warp so underwhelming... support for visual changes, don't care about mechanical changes as long as they are balanced. just yes please... sgu-destiny style warp would be cool =/ but as long as it looks and sounds awesome i couldn't care less.. i want this now!"
"no. not even cosmetic.once the camel gets its nose in the tent..."
"nonono"
"no.never ever!!"
"people not upgrading their local hardware does not hold eve online back from a technology standpoint. eve could be the most graphics intensive game, but some people would like to dial it back to lower settings now and then. it's not that hard to ask for it and it's not that hard to actually do.making cq mandatory hurts eve online because more new players won't be able to play because of the insane specs needed. tell me, how does forcing new players away from eve help it? it doesn't, that's right. i already have plenty of friends who tried to play eve and couldn't because they had average computers, now ccp wants to raise the system requirements? good luck guys, this is just one more nail in the coffin of things to eventually kill eve online if you don't make it optional. so do yourselves a favor ccp make cq optional or start your gradual sinking into the abyss of failed mmos."
"supported - forcing players to decant every dock is stupid.i *want* to use incarna, and i will. i just won't want to do it every time.plus i think it is immersion breaking to leave your pod every time, you are safer, and more ready to respond to circumstances.it will be more immersion breaking that *inevitably* you will teleport to your pod to undock from the station, probably from anywhere in the station.using incarna to force players to upgrade their system is quite odd, why does it matter to you if a player is using lower graphical settings than you? ccp certainly hasn't been aiming for the lowest common denominator for system req's, and the game looks fine as is.frankly, i think they'd do better to spend more time/staff on gameplay and balancing, and less on shiny things. incarna will (hopefully) be a good game mechanic (eventually) - but for now, it's basically pointless crap.i too, wonder if the forced-usage is simply to make it look better on some kind of stats. i will be keeping an eye out for articles stating huge usage metrics. and for a comment feature on said articles."
"recent developments in mind, i would have to say the reason for ccp wanting to force people to use cq is as simple as:if people are forced to look at their avatar each time they dock, all the time, there's a bigger incentive to buy into cash-shop items.make of that what you will."
"there is already a way to change your name with a harsh penalty built in. you delete the character and start a new one. sure you lose all your skillpoints but you get to keep all your assets and isk."
"not supported.eve is a game of choices and consequences. deal with them.and this change would have impact where selling/trading characters comes into play.sorry, kids. it's a no go on this one..."
"^this sort of answer type infuriates me too. yeah maybe i shouldn't be infuriated ... but its the logic that strikes me as something close to lieing ... deliberate failure to aknoledge stregnths of an other's arguments and pretending like the first answer is self evident. all sorts of things hisotries are permanent. ooops, destroyed the player abilty to see reputation and history of other players npc standings.. but that was different... basically, because history would still be trackable if it showed in the employment log their answer holds no water.they might have answers, but its not the issue that they gave as they stated it.they do have arguments beyond some flat statement that isn't true if a name change option was created correctly.\"the current system of no name changes ever makes it easier to see reputation than it would be looking at corporate history \" -rebutle, anyone concerned about reputation in a dealing will already be looking at corporate history \"we're concerned that allowing re-naming of characters would lead to many exploits of various types that would come along and the inevitable and expensive customer service work related to it\"- true, but addressable and perhaps profitable. stringently limited name changes should be a microtransaction of a type where each will be reviewed by a gm before they take effect. replacement names can have a different set of rules requiring that any change also aid the over-all immersion experience. (require a first and last name, with only first letters of each capitalized and no use of numbers or symbols -- first and last name cannot both be similar to an existing character, only one or the other. with an existing scott jones a scot jones (one t in scot -or a scoot too) would not be allowed sam jones or scott jacobs would be). changed names could also be limited to resemble real world names or words in their use of consonants and vowel combinations. the gm screen process should be short enough in average minutes to handle dozens of such requests an hour and be profitable at $20 a shot or something.\"we are concered that even well intentioned players would \"improve\" their name by shifting towards the bottom of the alphabet for the incremental competitive advantage that it gives. in doing so, other players with existing names will have them incrementally disadvantaged by effectively moving them up an alphabetical list of players\"- this is a valid partial consideration that could be addressed if the volume of changes looked like it would be consequential weighing this effect with the benefit of happier players with name charges for other reasons is subjective. the effect could be drastically diminished by arbitrary conditions that a name must start with the same letter it currently does, or within 3 letters etc.its not a game-immersion influence but a meta game effect that holds us back. as character sales can be an important source of revenue for some players, and we allow the transfer of characters, long time players with better names are significantly easier to sell at higher prices than unfortunately named chracters. by allowing a change, those players owning poorly named characters could receive a windfall on the meta level even if they just liked to play the game and would enjoy a new name and had no intention to sell. we long term players own some fairly well named characters o and we will sell them now and then and wed hate to have more competitionok, i think this is the real reason. if so come out and say it . again, a truthful explantion is important. search your heart. does this reason have any influence on your emotion about the issue? (i bet a fair fraction of the people against name changes are against them on a meta, not an a character as a habitant of the virtual universe, which is the stated reason against them.*(this is why i got so worked up on the remap gift where \"thats not how remaps work\" was an excuse to \"we're making a one time exception to how remaps work and we elected this way to be the exception as giving the moset equitable benefit to all players\".... well that answer doesn't work but answering \"thats not how remaps work\" while doing exactly the same giving extra remaps \"ccp , thats not how remaps work.. don't give them out unless an equally beneficial manner\" \"if you make a fairness mistake and there is a solution don't hide behind a rhetorical flourish\" /end that rehash )"
"a very simple other reason to adopt a change in some limited shape or form:deffering the desires of well intentioned customers for the reason that other customers might take advantage of the situation isn't a very high minded way to approach the world.trust by default...customers and people are owed that respect...take steps to minimize the cost the less well intentioned impose. if there aren't enough steps that can minimize the damage to a reasonable level, then perhaps the well intentioned player will unfortutely not be able to have his needs met even though in their case no harm would be done. but even if the cost were twice the benefit to the well intentioned, the well intentioned should be served if running customer service in a high minded way that asumes customers are trustworthy first. if the cost were closer to 10 /1 , the good hearted customer would probably be able to see that himself and live with his unfortunate circumstance."
"if it is about avoiding scams or meta advantage related to character values, fine. they should come out and state that true reason not hide behind a half truth that isn't really consistent. creative licence allows them to keep quiet, but if they do open their mouth's courtesy creates an expectation of honesty.being lied to is being lied to. thats a real life thing not a in game thing."
"im ok with name change, if you lose all sp, isk, ships, faction standings, everthing.you also start with a pod in a c6 wh."
"delete duplicate"
"i support the above changes, great ideas for hybrid ammo overhaul, what about t2 ammo tho?"
"minnie pilots use missiles too! better missile launches please!+1"
"with the upcoming incarna, there is talk of opening bars and stores.i think that is a great idea, but we can take it one step further.rent space from the station in a small, medium, large or extra large.very similiar to a pos using the hangar tabs.rent should be affected by a skill or standings.there can be modules like labs, advanced labs, drug lab, store front, implant research, manufactoring, etc...this allows for future expansions and other opportunities.example: brewery module to create alchohol for the bars?example: drug labs for the low sec and 0.0 stations. low sec planets produce ingredients?questions to ponder:some stations are larger than others.how much space is there available?can a player or corp add more space to the station? via a module like 0.0 stations can upgrade infrastructure?"
"i gathered some arguements for the standing display here: forumplease bring it back ccp !!"
"yes, standings do need to be displayed again. just another example of a completely half-arsed \"fix\" that was so badly implemented that it isn't even funny.let's recap. on top of player standings towards npcs no longer being displayed, we also got the following:- npc factions' standings towards each other no longer displayed- player corps' average standings no longer displayed- no way to see how player corps' average standings are composedwant to get your corp jump-clone access with a certain npc corp? tough ****ing luck, no way to tell who has standings and who doesn't.want to set up a pos? tough ****ing luck, no way to tell who needs to work on standings to get the average, or how close you are in the first place.want to hire only people who meet these requirements? tough ****ing luck, now you need to do a full api check.want to know who you lose standings with if you run storyline missions for thukker tribe? tough ****ing luck, hope you learned them by heart in time.and yet, there's rabid fanbois applauding this crap. as always."
"sec status is just concord faction standing. makes no sense that concord standing is visible but amarr, sansha, etc. aren't. all faction and corp standings should be visible."
"maybe add some low sec and null sec pockets to highsec to entice the high sec people out. also adding more wormhole space would be nice."
"this is execly where ccp **** up for soo many years, its really hard to explain to people that dont know what they are talking about that there are different kind of players. different mentalities. high sec is for bears who just want to log in and make isk. 0.0 if for players who like to shoot other players. wormholes = bear space + a littlebit of pvp. the lack of pvp in wormhole space makes pvp'rs leave. most wormhole space are occupied by corps that exist mostly out of players that like to log in bear a bit do a quick gank if oppertunity arises and thats it. the kind of corporations are a renters in 0.0 alliances or high sec corps. those corps would never operate alone in 0.0 or be able to join a large alliance that isnt test or some other bear allaince cause they lack player skills (pvp'rs; people that makes u be able to be in 0.0). so by saying eve got bigger due wormhole introduction u actuly say: eve got more high sec. 0.0 is crouded for the resources that can be found, ccp fianly did something to buff it but tok it away 8 months later."
"the problem has more to do with moons and less to do with systems."
"saying there are no good wormhole pvpers is astounting... for starters people deal with no local channel there, meaning that risk factor is higher and intel gathering skills are actually needed. 0.0 alliances have tons of \"carebears\", even pvpers have carebear alts either in highsec or running anomalies."
"the only gripe i've ever had with t3 ships is that the appearance of the ship is decided by the subsystem choice.why not make it so you can choose the look separately from the subsystem choice?i've seen too many t3 chips all look the same because there are obvious subsystem choices made (normally full damage or covert) and it makes for less individuality. hell, i've seen some great potential looks for t3 but you would never see it flying in-game because the grouping of subsystems to get that appearance would be tactically unwise.you train hard and spend a lot of isk to build a t3, letting you choose the look and not your subsystem choice seems logical and allows for greater individuality and self expression."
"i demand pink tassles for my loki."
"would love to be able to do this, there are so many cool looking modals attached to subs with ****ty bonuses"
"having the best moon mineral isolated in one area of space is simply wrong. it is time for it to be fixed so the moon minerals are mixed and spread throughout the galaxy so everyone has a fair shot in getting on on the liquid gold."
"i too would like to see less incentives for bloc level combat."
"and how much fighting has been done over the 60-100 valuable moons in the north? a dozen have been used for ping-pong by bored capital blobs but on the whole they have acted as isk printing presses.wars have so far been over epeen/grudges (goon/bob) and space to lease out (everywhere pre-nerf). some of the early wars, before the t2 overhaul and resulting moon changes there were a lot of skirmishing to control the big faucets but that is ancient history.static incomes should be nerfed, period. all of them.if one wants isk one should be forced to interact with game on a regular/daily basis.pi has the right idea, with several degrees of efficiency available dependent on mood or time spent.if one wants isk one should be forced to put oneself \"out there\" where the hurt lives.pi has a partial right idea with the space jettisoned product leaving a hauler open to attack. needs to be even more vulnerable if you ask me though, maybe dust will provide some more options but if not then planetary defence/offence installations should be introduced."
"all good moons should be in one system for glorious daily thunderdome action."
"you mean like last time they tried to fix dyspro ?"
"just a few months ago, pl held every tech moon in venal, about 70 or so. they do change hands."
"considering the fact that i see multiple moon defence fleets going up every week, and the odd attack too, i would say that there is plenty of conflict generated by moons. as the pl guys states, moons in venal change hands a lot, and they aren't the only ones."
"a lot of times a player is bombarded with real life stuff and has to step away from the game for many days in a row to deal with it. things like moving, military, school, you get the idea. during that time the political landscape can change and then your screwed when you come back to the game.i propose that if a player has not logged in for 3-4 weeks, upon character selection they get to chose which system to be spawned in. kind of like when you log in and jita is too full, you get to pick other places to spawn in besides jita. if you were docked then you can pick any npc/friendly station in the same constellation. if you logged in space, then any system in the constellation and it will be just some random safe spot there."
"opened thread.saw dark red lettershit ctrl+wreopened closed tabread postwrite this reply (in progress)hit ctrl+w (todo)"
"i take it you just logged in to find the station you were in is now deep in red space?not supported."
"there i fixed it.and the answer is: no."
"rl stuff happens, hope it wasn't something unpleasant. as to your proposal: seriously?? you chose to live in a region that could be conquered, and you think you deserve a consequence free mechanic to get your ship & pod out? in before he proposes that his nullsec station assets should be automatically moved to a hisec location of his choice..."
"not supported!!! this is eve not hello kitty online, deal with it noob."
"i fully support this proposal!"
"anyone else?"
"yeah, me too!"
"i also think this is a good idea"
"i have to concur, this is an excellent proposal!"
"i have the same opinion!by the way, effdrian, i love your hair!"
"why, thanks, that is very nice of you!"
"you're welcome"
"did i miss something?"
"the alt train above you from one douche supporting this by not actually checking the 'support this topic' box."
"too subtle for you, apparently."
"this is my main.what do we do now??"
"so naturally sc's have been a big topic on being op...thus leading to discussions of how they need to be nerfed, other ships need to be buffed, we still don't have a barrel-roll...yadda yadda...so i had a simple question for you sc pilots out there, and in general people who gotta fight them in fleets: if super-carriers utilize drones (most notably fb's, but also fighters) do they not inherently have a weakness in that their main source of dmg can be destroyed? (as opposed to normal ships which only stop shooting by jamming, lack of capacitor, or destruction)example (mind you i know little of carriers!): sc launches his death swarm...what can kill those drones? rather, what is needed? frigates and destroyers? or are they slow enough to be shot at by cruisers? do most carrier pilots assign the drones to a faster targeting ship, or do they direct them themselves?the reason i ask these questions is that i think a lot of folks haven't looked at the fact that maybe sc's should be tough to kill...but their drones shouldn't be. if a gang of rifters swarm a dominix, the domi will be defeated by virtue of the small guns shredding the drones. is there not a similar counter to supers? or is it really just easier to bear the brunt of the dmg and kill the sc first? while it may sound silly...this almost sounds like a niche role a destroyer could fill with it's higher-end dps and tracking (as opposed to multiple frigates).so...to sum up: what if the drones needed nerfing? not necessarily in damage output, but their ability to be destroyed? this results in the counter to carriers being a well-rounded fleet of heavy dmg output (capitals and bs), mid-range support (cruiser class), and your anti-drone/frigate support (frigate/destroyers)...as opposed to \"more supers\" being the determining factor of a battle. another way to look at it is that a ship's only counter should not be itself - i propose shifting the primary way of defeating a super from actually killing it, to just \"de-clawing\" it via destruction of its drones.just food for thought - i noticed i haven't really seen any attempts at targeting the drones as opposed to the ship for discussion. what do you guys think?"
"a few things...- fighters and fighter bombers have a lot of hp. fighters have low cruiser level hp while fbs have low battleship hp.- scarrier pilots are well versed in drone management and will pull drones as soon as they start taking damage.- scarriers get a bonus to launch 3 extra drones/fighters per level... this means that at level 5 a scarrier can launch upwards of 20 drones/fighters.-- a \"blob\" of fighter bombers can dish out about 10,000 dps against a stationary ship or structure.--- combining the above things, it's simply not reasonable to attack the drones of a fleet (or even a gang) of scarriers. you'd be dead before you even scratch the scarrier's shields.i"
"besides that sc can also carry tons of replacement drones if they want to. so completely defanging a supercarrier is tedious labor at best."
"the problem with the suggestion that drones need to be easier to kill is the price. if the cost to make them came down, then sure. losing just a single fighter costs around 20m isk, bombers are even more. the problem is more to do with the smaller drones than the fighters and bombers though. a scarrier relies on mediums and heavies to fight off battleships, hacs, bcs, etc. a scarrier basically has an infinite amount of the these drones to throw at sub caps. ccp could make a separate hold for fighters/bombers and dramatically shrink the drone bay so sub caps can actually engage a scarrier. that would provide a weakness."
"or make their drone launch number bonuses only apply to fighters / fighter/bombers."
"that's reasonable, but does not address the \"unending swarm of drones\" issue."
"a sc can carry 40-50 fighters/fb's. by removing only 1 fighter (5000 m3), they can add 100 ogre ii's, 200 hammerheads, and 100 hobgoblins!!!"
"1 ship launches 20 drones + at least 20 backup drones = 40 total20 ships launch 400 drones + at least 400 backup = 800 total50 ships launch 1,000 drones + at least 1000 backup = 2,000 totaltell me how you intend to kill them fast enough knowing that they take anywhere from 20-40,000 raw damage per drone to kill. for 50 sc, that's 80 million ehp or roughly a station reinforcement. ever tried doing that with just bs and seen how long it takes with no lag to do? ever tried to do it in heavy lag and see how much longer it takes to do. imagine a fight where you have 200 fleet, enemies have 100 with 50 bs and 50 sc. you decide to shoot the station and see if you can kill it before your focusing on their fleet. imagine how well that would work out. drones are only a small part of a much bigger problem with sc's though."
"perhaps make ships probeable, and instead of giving t3's an immunity or some other bs, let them have a scrambler of sorts, so hat when you probe for them, depending on what level your skll is at compared to theirs (or however you want to do it), it would send off ghost images of a larger fleet, that gives the tradeoff of more solo/small gang gankers shying away from warping in to engage (unless they warp in within 100km or some distance beyond either players sooting range to scout, but lets be honest, ifyou see a scout warp in, you should run). but the tradeoff is, you may attract larger groups of players looking for fleet-sized kill-mail lists. so its kind fo 50/50 depending on what kindof pvp'er is stalking you.personally i dont have many problems with being gaked or ganking others, so not sure how well this solution would work, but i feel its better then alot of real non-sensical solutions some people come up with (such as 1 person a while back suggested a modificaqtion to t3 that pretty much made you choose between being able to shoot, or being unprobabl with 90% of your shield/armor/structure gone. nonsensical like that is what im against.)"
"edit:i don't consider what i'm doing narrow minded at all. it might be a little narrow minded for me to just call you a ganker, but lets have a look at that."
"no ship should be unprobable. rather than fixing low sec, we got unprobable ships to populate low sec with. rather than fixing null sec, the vast emptiness is now able to be filled with unprobable ships. unprobable ships are not a fix. that's my problem with any solution that keeps unprobable ships."
"although i agree with some of your sentiments most of the arguments you use already have an answer.you want to scout/spy/go about your business in enemy territory you can it's called a cloaking device.now if you want to mission in low-sec or 0.0 why exactly should you be able to do it with no chance of ever getting caught? the whole point of 0.0 and low-sec(of a lesser degree) is to enable players to fight each other, hold on here it comes... whether or not they want to!low-sec gives a non-pvp player a certain help with this regarding gate mechanics and agression timers. in reality if you travelling in low-sec if you are aware enough and have good bookmarks you shouldn't really be caught. (although if you look at my kb you'll see this doesn't always work :-) )0.0 you only have session timers and great bookmarks to help you. this is as it should be, the rewards are greater in 0.0 so the risks should be equal to that.my only ask is that if you wish to make any ship unprobable it should gimp the output dps of the ship to make it not worth having unless it's a spy/scout/fleetbooster ship.you don't like the fact they bring a cloaky/unprobable fleetbooster..you can always bring 1 or 2 of your own.as for the mission runner you have a directional scanner, use it! you see a probe cloak up or make safe if your being targeted it's what i have to do in 0.0 and it doesn't stop me most of the time from earning isk."
"how about only reduce warp time in 0.0 due spacial distortions?"
"only if it comes with \"teleport to final waypoint\" and insta-dock feature. oh, oh, oh, and insta-warp too! lets make eve a better, wait-free game! not."
"wrong ship to whine from"
"no"
"medium hyperspatial velocity optimizer ii"
"they should increase warp time by 50%."
"yap!"
"and you are unable now? am i missing something ?not supported."
"right now, repair drones cannot repair your own ship, they're effectively only remote repair.i lost my first bs to concord because i repped rats in high sec, thinking i needed to tell my repair drones to engage the rats so they'd come back and fix me.supported 100%"
"exactly. also, drones are destroyable unlike a ship module."
"targeting yourself might be possible now with all the bugs in incursion 1.6 ahahaha"
"does the current csm or ccp believe that parking a t3 or command ship safed off grid and providing it's bonus relativly risk free is the best mechanic for these ships/bonuses?shouldn't these ships be on grid to provide there bonus.requiring this would lead to more command ships(redudancy) or battle cruisers fielding these mods(cheaper). right now piloting one of these ships is boring but very nessisary as the benifit is huge.thoughts?"
"i think many people share your loathing of off-grid t3 command ships providing bonus' while unprobabely safe. unfortunately, i don't think the current fleet bonus mechanics can differentiate between on-grid and off grid. luckily, a ccp rep mentioned not to long ago the desire to nerf unprobable setups, meaning you'll be able to scan them down when they aren't pos'd up."
"while i applaud your attempt to recitify supercaps online, i don't think your suggestion will solve the underlying problems. 1.) the lock, scan res, and tracking penalties are there to make them poor anti-subcap platforms. changing these things might have unintended consequences against subcap fleets, and i don't think you've considered these consequences fully. 2.) the focus of using remote reps rather than active tanking is one of the fundemental reasons for the rise of supercaps. active tanking does not scale, but rr does. i think moving more capital ships into the direction of rr tanking needs a lot of consideration. originally, i thought it was a very bad idea.... your 60% resist bonus is one of the major reasons for this, as it allows one triaged carrier to rep the incoming dps of 4-8 dreads, depending on how many resists mods the dread installs. if you extended rr to triaged carriers, this would stalemate many capfights! non-triaged carriers would still be very effective, adding fighter dps while still being able to outrep 1-2 dreads and receive rr themselves. think about how devistating this change would be to the effectiveness of subcaps when engaging caps. now add in improved lock, tracking, and scan res to dreads, and abbadon fleets will be in a very bad spot! these changes will have an effect, but not on supercarriers. dreads will ramin the capital warfare ship of middle-class alliances, but now they become much more safe from the subcaps of poverty-stricken alliances. supercarriers will still be far superior to dreads on the battlefield because they can warp around and change the range of combat rather than sitting in one place, their dps isn't has highly dependent on range, and they can easily gtfo when things heat up. personally, i think the change that's needed, is to enable subcap fleets a method to declaw supercarriers in the same manner that 10 rifters can kill a domi by declawing it first! this will never happen while you can remove one fighter and put in 100 ogre 2's! while everyone wants to have a bomb option in the rock, paper, scissors game, it fundamentally destroys the game (balance)."
"i want to be able to feed the corpses of my enemies to my pets!"
"rideable minmatar slave"
"i want to be able to shoot the corpses of my enemys' pets at my friends..."
"ecm is easy on successful ecm attack you loose the dps equivalent of 1 drone for the duration of the ecm but who ever ecm's drones aside from ecm burst and it probably work the same as it does now for that.webbing is hard one, 2 options 1 drone splits off from the herd and can be shot as normal and after it's web effect is gone it rejoins the squadron that however is really complicated and hard to code. the second option that's really quick and easy is a single web has a reduced effect on the squadron, i kinda favor the second one since it this makes shooting out drones in a fight alot easier that they need some small advantage and a reduced webbing bonus is something."
"i want drone groups but not in the way you are proposing. i can't stand the fact that a carrier can put out only 15 fighters at a time. that is freaking weak for any carrier, especially ones as huge as in eve. i think each fighter should be compromised of 10 fighters in a formation. thats a total of 150 fighters out at a time. then as each fighter group takes damage a fighter might be lost causing reduced dps out of that group of fighters. obviously you wouldn't want to have each of the 150 fighters doing the damage a single fighter does now...so each group would do the damage a single fighter currently does."
"the problem is drones cause lag, huge amounts of it the server has to track it's position and movment in space then do all the math for the firing calculations and that is for each drone and then send that huge amount of information to every one on grid.have you ever been in a fleet fight with 4k drones in space it's pretty brutal, reducing the amount of work that the server has to do by cutting down the work it has to do for drones would be a huge step towards laggless fleet fights."
"no different than 1 gun in a stack overheating though. i don't think it really is as complex as you make it out to be."
"keep all crap in general plz."
"non-constructive and offtopic. so, as much as it pains me... *click*"
"everyone talks big, so why not make 1v1 possible. have some sort of beacon and gates, mission style, that limit the number of players that enter. i'm sure there would even be a way to make it possible to have small gang fights, 2v2 3v3 ect. possibly even make it possible to have some sort of duel adverts to allow players to freely challenge each other and only accept the fights the see as fair. something like that might be pretty fun for new players as well. would be a way to ease into pvp without the blob fests of 0.0."
"i think it should be like the alliance tournament space, pvp without a warp interdiction would be interesting. pick your team in staion on the setup screen, set a maxium between 1-10 to prevent zerging people. if they did i would like to see the ranking system changed to reflect what was an open world kill and what was a controled enviroment kill.someone who played wow told me battlegrounds killed world pvp, i don't know if thats true or if the same would apply to eve, somethin to consider.i guess i will support it."
"*sigh*yes, this thread is so much different than all the 1000 other proposals for this topic."
"sure if you remove the cargo bay."
"much like re-allocating skill points - no. you let it in the door and it'll never stop. auto-pilot is a lazy feature, and nothing more. at the speed shuttles move, the difference is relatively minimal when traveling high-security. if you wanted to make it through low/null quickly and painlessly, you would have made the effort to warp yourself.as for a more logical answer: piracy is a profession in eve and depends on one of two types of ransoms - ship ransom, and pod ransom. one can be considerably more expensive than the other (do the math on a snake set). shuttle pilots not paying attention happen to be one of the easiest ways for starting pirates, and veterans of rum, to make isk. warp to zero is your 50% chance to escape any conflict - and shuttles make that a near 100% with their incredibly fast warp.logic #2: jump-clones. by allowing shuttles effectively a 100% chance to never be in danger, except in a bubble, you have eliminated the need for jc's except as a half-way-across-new-eden necessity. why pay for a jc (and wait 24 hours to go back) when your shuttle can auto to your destination in a fraction of the time.logic #3: if you allow shuttles to warp to zero, why can't pods? they warp slower in transit but align and begin much quicker (read: instantly). the same applies to interceptors which also show similar values - can they warp to zero as well?logic #4: \"the reality\" problem - if anything, no ship should be able to warp to 0 as it seriously endangers the warp gate due to traffic and high-velocity mass. a shuttle, which moves far faster than a battleship and has a small profile, could literally tear a hole through a warp-gate if it mis-jumped.tl;dr no.they already are 'the' individual transport tool."
"the initial launch of incarna? no - we're only getting cq and vanity items from what i understand. basically eye-candy for the startup, but you gotta start somewhere.down the road as stations open up and you can actually visit other avatars? probably - i'd say sometime in winter though before we see those kinds of mechanics in-game."
"and yet by killing bob twice means we get to say it."
"i'm on the other side. i think that correcting your security status after dropping it is too easy. it makes the consequences of choosing to pirate nothing more than a bit of a grind to undo.there's also the issue (since beta even) that concord pays bounties and gives you secstatus increases out in 0.0 where they don't care about anything else. at the very least i'd expect concord to lower the amount of gain the lower the security rating of the system. unfortunately, this would trash the economy of null-sec and to some extent low-sec as well. but is would make sense from a story perspective. i mean really: i make myself a heinous criminal by preying on innocent people until i'm kicked out into the wildlands where there is no law. then, by behaving nicely out there where there is no law i somehow gain standing with the police? just doesn't make sense. unfortunately i've never seen or heard of a scheme that would make sense without screwing null-sec players. but i'll keep hoping. in the meantime, i certainly can't support making the consequences for pirating even more trivial."
"if it happens by the end of june i'll be pleasantly pleased. the teaser was a good preview of what to expect; can't wait to see the details."
"ah yes, the good old days where you wrote down a summary, deleted the parts under the nda, and where good to go.thanks for the information, trebor, it is much appreciated, nonetheless"
"question. should you wait for tommroow to draft the details on dust? most of it might not be nda anymore right?"
"ok. it's 10 days short of 2 months now. is there any chance of getting a transcript of this?"
"no thank you. i won't even go into the potential problems and issues, of which it is fairly obvious there is an abundance. i don't want someone else to have any power over me in the game. joining a corp, you voluntarily cede that power. npc corps or your own 1-person or small corp avoid it. mandatory mayors of every region in highsec give whoever is the most popular power over a large number of players that simply want to be left alone and play solo."
"for a start i don't think every region should have it, or even do it by region, doing it by constellation is pretty good though. and seriously u wanna play solo? go play tetris or maybe learn what the 'mm' in 'mmo' stands for"
"over the last few years i have been playing eve i have followed with a watchfull eye of the piracy element in eve.i would like to put forth this.in high sec as it stands piracy rarely results in anything less then a slap on the wrist with a sec status drop which is sometimes the goal, and loss of ship. usually for fun rather then isk all though sometimes they can get a juicy drop.when said pilot gets ganked what options do they really have? hire mercs for high amounts of isk?cry to fellow corp mates to risk their ships for a kill?and so on.my proposal is this.after said victim is killed. under the kill rights tab they can either claim kill rights or sell/trade.the solution here is, this would allow the profession in eve know as bounty hunters to buy said kill right. lets say 30% of insurance payout.( if no insurance then 10%) or perhaps the isk goes to a npc is sink.thus enhancing this minute profession and adding a little isk to said victims wallet.i think this would give those that cant fight back a small option to exact some sort of internet spaceship revenge while adding another role play option to eve.now onto the hate/love and trollsfly safe"
"i was about to tell you to htfu, but the idea of trading concord-sanctioned kill contracts is actually kind of cool.player justice > any punitive game mechanic ccp can dream up."
"more space won't help.\"back in the day...\" - back in the day the api didn't broadcast every change to nullsec within 1 hour. right now you can setup a simple routine to e-mail you whenever anyone builds anything in a system that they do not control. be that a pos or trying to claim sov.when you have the ability to see a pos being built in an unclaimed system, you have the ability to log on, pull together a team and go blow them up -- in a system none of you have been to in the last year of your play. it takes no effort at all to find where the new gang is trying to get a foothold.that's a hell of a difference in \"afk empire managing\" from 'back in the day'."
"honestly, if they don't have alts involved in it, they probably don't know what the hell is going on and will find it of little importance. that doesn't mean ccp will ignore it. check the answers to the community. fw was talked about with more certitude of \"known issues\" than gallente ships/hybrids so at least you can hold onto the fact that ccp is \"aware\".do i hold this to mean ccp *will* fix it? hell no. i do see it as something they *may* do regardless of what the csm may want as a priority. the csm helps provide feedback but they don't decide what ccp will or will not do."
"yea, how dare they read threads and have legitimate conversations about game mechanics, even going so far as to admit they don't know everything!"
"in real life, most of eve would be considered frontier territory, going back to the days when people took the law into their own hands without being punished for it. the exceptions would be 0.7 and higher security space, where it would either be the law, or those supported by the law. we would have marshals; players enjoying the benefit of high security status who worked for ded and concord. criminals would be criminals, and they would be shot on sight, or lose their possessions and belongings prior to being escorted out of high security space and into the badlands. player lawmen would track down criminals for rewards, and never suffer a loss to security status for doing so, save maybe in 1.0 space, and they would never be fired on by gateguns, concord, or station guns.criminals would not be able to redeem themselves without quitting what they are about and taking up the honest life, so their past would follow them until they fixed it. even then, it would not be forgotten. once you have a skull, you always have a skull, blue or not."
"i think you'll find few people so delusional that they believe removing insurance will actually stop suicide ganking: for one, if the cargo is too valuable, insurance doesn't matter any more. it's more the principal of it, really: even the staunchest pirates often admit that concord-subsidized piracy is a bit too much.also, suicide ganking in general is way too consequence free. that's another major thorn in people's eye. you ought to get no insurance payout, for starters. next to that, it should come with stuff security penalties. i mean, like -0.5 per incident, per offender.the consequence free ganking is compounded by ccp being surprisingly lax about it. even though it's verboten, people recycle accounts all the time, and ccp doesn't lift a finger. and their argument against removing insurance is always the poor noob, who would otherwise no longer be able to buy himself a new ship. here 'lax' turns to 'downright lazy,' as insurance payout could easily be tied to security status. much like in real life, btw: good luck getting insurance with a criminal record. oh, you probably still can, but at a premium price. bad security status? premium goes thru the roof; or go too low, and pendant simply notifies you they have terminated the insurance on your vessels altogether. anyway, you get my drift: it could easily be made a lot more equitable.after two years of playing eve, it's my understanding that there are elements within ccp that simply think eve as a whole should just be one huge, ruleless pvp zone. it certainly explains their rather relaxed attitude towards highsec suicide ganking (and a few other things). don't get me wrong: i'm not against suicide ganking. if it's truly profitable to them, let them have a go at it. but the simple empire lolz-gank, costing the victim hundreds of millions, while the aggressors walk away scott free, that really needs to stop."
"fully suport thios and that wil not bereak economic, just somer ppl will not gank for lulz only. high sec supostobe safe not suicide ganker paradise."
"this is a sensible idea."
"not a bad idea"
"this is a good idea as it makes sense imo. arguments that ganking keeps the economy going are weak. ccp has much better ways to influence market prices."
"adding more to stations, like able to place agents in it for common person to run, base in 0.0. as missions could give good mins out put, and more common t1 items to be sold!"
"the launch of dust, planned for the summer of 2012, will greatly effect the economy of 0.0 and how production of planetary resources is secured. i don't see any point in this discussion until we have a better understanding of how dust will interact with eve."
"noi do not want that donatable currency. if eve online will contain donatable currency, what will be next? true armor for my soldier in dust 514 only for $5? expanded magazine for my assault gun only for $3true tank for $20?do not allow that currency."
"no"
"no"
"well, i'm thinking about this since december, but couldn't get my ass up to run some numbers and present them in a well structured post. so i think i should at least support the idea. however, i think that hybrids need a bit more to become effective. at the moment we have a way to high granularity in ammo choices. my idea would be to split hybrid ammo in two types. variation 1: 70:30 therm/kin damage, 10 % bonus to blaster damage. variation 2: 70:30 kin/therm damage, 10% bonus to rail damage. that is 4 variations for both ammo types and completely sufficient in my opinion.adding to that, i would like to see way larger cargobays on gallente ships to hold more cap booster charges, and reduce cap recharge time on caldari ships while keeping their cap capacity low. rokh shouldn't cap out by shooting it's guns.additonally, i think gallente need some sort of agility buff, to get them faster at speed, and maybe add some web strength riggs to present an alternative to armor riggs."
"supported there`s no reason it should not optional ,personally i think cq will get old fast until they implement more of incarna like face to face corp meetings ,running into your enemies in a gambling den ect ,that stuff would be cool. walking around a cell going \"yay i haz a monacle that nobody can see but me and it only cost me 10 million isk \" isnt exactly what i was hoping for but to each his own i guess"
"there are functional losses from this change as well. small ones but they are there and will trouble some of us.spinning a ship, i can fit guns on it and see what they look like quickly and efficiently. this makes \"adapting\" to the graphics changes a minor annoyance - it's a change so get new shots and memorize the new hulls/guns. except...having that ship floating above and behind you, in washed out lighting, makes it kind of tricky to spot what the turret changes are. that big model sits there slowly rotating with no way to control it's spin and no way to check other angles. it looks little like the ship in space beyond general shape. so right-click \"view target\" on a gate is going to give me a dark looking hull with guns fit that i can't see unless i fit those guns on a ship, fly out, check it then \"loading please wait\" style next ship. this was not necessary when i could spin the ship in the hangar.for a top quality scout, who can report back an arty fit or an ac fit hurricane... if that a domi is either neut/disco fit or what kind of guns... that kind of intel can make the difference between no lost friendlies or losing a few depending on both the scouts ability to report it and the fc's ability to direct the tacklers.i aborted trying to get the screenshots after about 20 minutes which - if i had that old interface, i'd have had at least 2 races of frigates done with. load.. load... load... load... slower than before and only because i can't see the damned stuff fit clearly in dock.--------tag on the fact that most games are working damned hard at removing loading messages, and masking the ones that they have... eve is adding it to one of the most heavily used portions of the game - not just 1, walk to the end of that ramp towards the cq and there's a second load that happens.faster graphics or not - more loading... i recall when i left eq for wow. 15 minute flight during it's open beta - i flew over a gang of 20 bashing on a hill giant without a stutter. 15 minutes of scenery without 1 stinking \"loading, please wait...\" that i used to get every what - 150 steps or so in eq?!? i don't like waiting for things to load and yes, i have a \"nice quality\" new machine on order but i'll still get those friggn loading slowdowns.this seems a tad backwards - forcing a loading screen like this when it's not needed for functional portions of game play.if you like \"pretty\" - that's cool. i'll probably wander around a bit myself - when i feel i have the time. forcing me to load it when i'm shifting fits and the like... not allowing me to see the ship from views like it will be seen with a \"view target\"... that i don't like."
"i choose to push for the option to change names, it preserves consequences because there will be a history. this and more has been mentioned already been dealt with.okay, no character that has been sold may have a name change and any name changed character will be reverted to its older name. dealt with.hmm, i'm not a kid, were you perhapes talking about him:reactionary and myopic. if that is the level of mentality that is opposing name changes i don't even need to say anything."
"no."
"you jump into jita, or other busy hub. there are over 100 people on local. are you telling me that you have the time to open up each persons history info and scan through? i really don't think so. this point has *not* been dealt with.and the point i made of it generating no profit for ccp is this:3000 people x $15 usd for name change = $45,000 revenuethat's presumably less than the cost of a 1 year salary of an employee at ccp who would have to deal with the customer support and petitions that would come from the abuses of this system. ie, no profit."
"let me help out this thread here.they are ****s, they will not ever let us do this no matter the logic or easy fixes like a name history, period.why?because.(see part about ****s)"
"meh, i'd be cool with name changes. even free ones, maybe once per year like attribute remaps. name change history would be nice. i'd still have other players set as contacts with good/bad standing etc, hopefully that wouldn't change with their name. their sec status hopefully wouldn't change. their employment history would still exist. their faction standings would still exist. we already have a system to add notes or flags to specific characters. it would make the character bazaar a lot more useful to those of us who don't want alts with ******ed names. doesn't seem like a terribly difficult option to implement, seems like it would be used a lot so it's worth the time."
"lots more; no.your name is your name. stick with your choice. and before you mention character selling/trading; choosing to buy a character with a given name is a choice.p.s. your \"logic\" is based around a psycological issue named \"ego\". outside of that, there is no logic to a name change. <--that is a period right there.also, buying a character is one of the worst parts of this game. so you can't even use that as a reason. people who buy characters are just as bad, in my opinion, as people who buy/sell isk. if you want a new name, start a new character. i'm sorry that it means you have to start from scratch. although, i'm really not..."
"remember that blasters inherently have a short optimal...so if the 'longest range' ammo deals the most damage, that only makes a blaster hit out a few km farther but with little/no tracking bonus. considering blasters have a higher dmg multiplier as well as high tracking speed, this shouldn't be a problem.+1 the idea is sound for railguns - but you are now making gallente pilots primarily snipers for pve, but maintaining their 'up close and personal' role in pvp. i like it. caldari hybrid boats would do fine with this as well."
"please support."
"agree"
"imho it should be optional (off by default), you can show them if you want and turn it off if you dont. this stops standings from being used as a highsec griefing toolshould be able to view standings of all members of your corp/alliance. no reason to hide this from a corp, unless your a spai lol.standings info should be available via limited api. so corps who only pull limited api for recruiting can still check this."
"two reasons this is a bad idea. 1. it stops people from identifying the sub's by looking at the t3.2. if you do that, you may as well just scrap the whole thing and make all t3 look the same.i appreciate that some t3 sub's look a little odd, particularly combined with certain other sub's, but that is part of owning a t3. fact is, the sub's could use a little remodeling in some areas, and they could also be rebalanced to make the scrap ones more appealing.not supported. i really would rather wonky looking sub's, than more generic ship classes."
"you're being rediculous mars, nobody i know uses the appearance of a t3 to base what they have on it.find some other reason to come out against something other than nitpicking."
"we could allow you to choose the gun models that appear on your ship independantly of what guns you actually have fitted. don't like the look of shield hardeners? tick a box and get the visual effect of an armor tank instead.or perhaps you need to get to know some people who are better at eve."
"wow, a snarky comment from goon, color me shocked, next."
"^^ precisely this.not supported."
"alright, fine. it was just an idea.forget i said anything, let's get back to business as usual."
"you just don't know right people :pin less than two minutes you can have estimated fitting of t3 based on ship model and visible turrets and tanking modules graphic effects. scouting in wh covers things like that, when you want to know what t3's are loged on a pos, and what to expect of them."
"since ccp is working hard on walking in station, why can't we get cyno effects fixed? it's little just why not? lot of capital pilots wanting this changed, seeing jumping effects, and cynos would be nice small change? don't you think?"
"problem:low sec has a much lower population than emp or null. emp is safe, null is the most rich in resources. low is supposed to be the happy middle ground and a place where pirates can do their thing. problem is... no carebear will live in low sec, because even though the planets and ore is a little better than emp, it does not make up for the increase in risk to losing ones ship or ore to pirates.possible solutions: (up for discussion)-fix the bounty system. (yes its been proposed many many times in the past already) with a working bounty system, it will encourage mercenaries as a profession. when there are more bounty hunters, there will be mercs where there are mercs then some will enevitably fall to the darkside to become pirates, while others remain true and become vigilantes. net net, there will be enough of a merc population to have mercs for hire for reasonable prices, so that carebears can just post wanted ads in station for people willing to escort haulers through lowsec or help guard a mining operation. some may make good honest living as good guy mercs, others as pirates in disguise who gank their employers. all in good fun.-add drug production and smuggling, but make it so that certain ingredients for drug or booster production can only be found in low sec. this is more of a heavy handed 'god manupulation of the market' solution, and may have some domino effects that are unforseen, but in the short term, it will boost the desire of people into lowsec. -make dust514 have some sort of game effect that is unique to lowsec. this solution isn't much more than a hazy idea at this point and the sky is the limit to what we can think of, but one may be that dust514 players play mostly in lowsec because it may be cheaper to hire ground troops in lowsec etc. perhaps the major ground troop/mercenary guilds can be based there... etc. its not hard to imagine, as fighting in the core emp worlds will be minimal (they are at peace for the most part) and fighting in nullsec planets may be too dangerous (you may get stranded on a planet with no npc transports to get you offworld, relying only on alliance capsuleers to transport you offworld.) so the 'wildlands' of low sec is where most dust campaigns will occur... looking forward to hearing more suggestions."
"my take on what would make me want to put down permanent roots both as carebear and pirate."
"put all lvl4 and lvl3 missions in lowsec, reduce the industry power in highsec, reduce the quality of ore in highsec.problem solved."
"putting the lvl3/4 missions in low may work, but you can't just send a whole flock of sheep to the slaughter. they won't go willingly.problem is that mission running uses pve setups, which will get pwned by a pvp setups. so you may just have much less people running lvl3/4 missions, which, will make implant prices and faction gear prices shoot through the roof. what most people don't realize is that pvpers need mission carebears and vice versa. (else the market will suffer)interestingly, if this was done, it would increase the number of pvpers as mostly combat types would be forced to flip between running missions in lowsec, to ganking mission runners in lowsec. without concord the equilibrium will swing in the favor of the gankers then soon you will have everyone become gankers and no more gankees left, making everyone in lowsec, pvpers. what that would lead to is that no haulers or miners (or other non-combat types) would venture into lowsec anymore. (being that the population there is all pvpers) the effect of lowering ore yields won't have the effect you think, i fear. instead, miners will stay in empsec, and all t1 gear will just jump in price to reflect the extra work industrialists need to put in to produce them with low grade ore.------ so....what about this... we want lowsec to be 'dangerous' but not as dangerous as null sec. what if we allowed people who have good standing with the sov of the lowsec pirate faction and the main faction (so derelik would be ammatar and sansha) be 'safe' in that region? that would make good game sense. now how do we implement such relative safety in a region full of pvpers? --make it so that if you have good standing with x npc faction, and you attack someone who also has good standing with x, you will lose your standing with x. also, if your standing is bad enough with x, then obviously gate guns and police will shoot you. this has the effect of making lowsec like a 'baby null sec' except that the 'alliance' in this case is the npc pirate and/or main sov faction.so a pvper pirate will happily gank a stray hauler, unless the hauler/miner is friendly with the same faction the pirate is. if he shot too many 'friendly faction' carebears, then the pirate will find himself unable to dock at stations and have his poses taxed heavily or some other npc faction penalty to make it not worth his while."
"funny i wrote my response to the latest on this thread, then i read your linked discussion, and marveled and how we think alike. :)i like the swearing allegiance thing. but maybe make it simpler. you just swear allegiance the same way someone today joins factional warfare militia. just join up once your standing is high enough. and adding new lvl3/4 drug trade related missions will give the missioners a reason to move to lowsec, where they will choose to continue to mission, or choose to join the 'militia' (pirate) and keep the region clean of foriegn carebears, while protecting his own carebear industrialists."
"this wil not solf a tring: 1. risk vs income to low for creabear tio go in to low sec eny way with standing sytem or wit out standing system. so there then need increase income sigificantly to. that litle lp pioint increase will not make eny cearbear go to low sec. 2. miners to will not go to low sec again ting the same incoem vs risk, if miner can mine lets say 4-7 milj per hour in high sec hee will nto go to mine in low sec to ern 10 milj. risk to big lose 230 milj ship. specialy miners using usualy multiple chars to mine and mange them all itrs hard in lowsec practicly inposible, and do thet safly. cerbears and miners wil go only in low sec if his action there will be not posible disturb or income will be so big that that covers ship loses, but with curent incomes there not posibul tio cover a ting. if miner needto mine 20 hours to cover one hulk sorry thanot aceptible, and the same for mision runer if hee need cover his tengu or wath ever ratting ship rat like 6-7 hours to not acceptible. so let me say again thos payers wil go only to low sec if they can aford it that means 1 haur new ship, that wuld be acceptible for cearbears ( i have talked about this with meny ppl asking them a questions and on such results i comed up, ihave lived in low sec in high sec and in 0.0, so i speaking from my exopirince to)sorry for gramatical mistakes english its not my primary language ilerned it in eve:)"
"did you read the part of my (and the other lady's) proposal about making drug production only properous in lowsec? (presumably because pirate factions love drugs and the low sec areas the custom inspectors at the gates are lazy)this is the 'incentive' for carebears to go into lowsec. and with faction alliegience, it will be relatively safe, for the most part. still, being able to pay for merc escorts would help this a lot.i agree with you insofar as increasing resources in lowsec (drugs and boosters)i disagree with you in that you want to reduce highsec resources. this isn't necessary. let the 'farmville' players stay in highsec if they like. they will just miss out on the profits to be made in the new black market and booster trade."
"problem with using standings as requirement is that it is comparatively hard to get good pirate standings. better to pay for the privilege and in the process burn the \"easy\" standings (ie. empires), thus technically allowing anyone to stake a claim.trick is to make people want to go there which can only be done by increasing security (or the sense thereof) and offering something that is not available elsewhere.former can be npc based (concord/navy) but that would penalise pirates which is counter-productive as low is supposedly their home so it has to be player based.latter can be any pve activity, i went with drugs and security rating grind as they are the most \"piraty\" options available. l3/4 missions could work, but all that does is alienate the vast number of people who wants to chill, chew the fat and generally just be left alone (read: casual players).my vision was inspired by the pre-drugs mafias in the real world who made their cash by taking dividends from everything on their turf in exchange for protection."
"yes i reded that but that not brings much income in drugsn to producet in high amountsi produce them my slef was nedet 2 month to sel in good market hubs all my week production, afciors if this can be chhanged that drugs alowed to use in high sec to but that wil not change a ting. profit fom drug manufucturing its not inaf to go to low sec."
"well then it will be up to ccp to make the drug trade profitable then. its a separate issue that needs to be looked at. but the solution is rarely to gimp an existing market. rl analogy: you want more tech businesses in your country? you should give tax incentives to new tech businesses. you should not increase taxes on existing industries (like food production) in the hope of getting them to \"change their business\" to technology. it's just a bad idea to mess with the free market. those who want to play casually, will continue to play casually. you can't and shouldn't force them to move to lowsec.the demographic you want to focus on to move to low sec should be current nullsec folks who are sick of all the warring and bubbles, and new players who want to try out the re-invented pirate \"dark side\" professions."
"you skipped the most important question(everybody that never did bounty hunting and tries to fix it actually does). this question is very simple: \"who will actually pay for this?\". if you are ready to pay 200-300 on individual kills you could already get it done by a merc corp, however most people will not invest this much on her personal vendetta against a guy they will probably never see again(since they don't live where he lives, in low sec).because behind your \"white knight\" illusion of a bounty hunter there will be actually a kind of a merc, that will not work for free or to protect people that can't do this on her own. he does it for a profit, same as any merc corp now, that doesn't do bounty hunting for the simple reason that it is to much effort and the targets are most likely very skilled solo/small gang pvpers and a pain in the ass to hunt down separately."
"another option: allow player pirate corps and alliances to sell formal protection contracts. when another player, corp or alliance buys the contract, they are guaranteed not to be attacked by those player pirates. funds are held in escrow for the duration of the contract, and at then end are paid to the pirate corp if no violations occur. if the contract is violated, the escrow is returned to the buyer.speaking for myself as a mostly-carebear, if i could buy such contracts at a reasonable price, i'd be much more active in low sec than i am now. usually a low sec system is frequented by one or two specific corps, so if a carebear type can pay those regular pirates off, the place is much safer. a random wanderer could still pose a threat, but it's more of an occasional threat than the massive, looming threat posed by pirates that live there."
"on this ihave one idea :) ting its such bouty hynting need to be brath togeter with sec status drop, if sec status drops lower then 0.0 than per ewach point wath sec status drops on your head its droping a bounty from concord that actualy wiling to kil you and suports mercs to kill you in low sec. lets say 10 milj per -0.5 points or so. nd if soem one kiling him he not resives sec status drop even if he was -0.01 in sec status that even in high sec pirate itsp irate and have risky live."
"i like the buying allegiance idea, but i worry that that will tip the scales in favor of the rich, and will pretty much block access to the new lowsec to beginning pirates. ideally, we need beginning players to bang out a couple of missions in emp, then move to lowsec quite early on. what about a special mission like the one in the beginning tutorials which there was a point where a pirate npc wanted to recruit you? perhaps allow the player to agree to join (perhaps by killing the innocent rats) and that would make the pirate drop a \"letter of recommendation\" to the player which would give them a 1 time standings boost with the pirate faction?i think that the order of \"gentrification\" of lowsec is important. first to move in must be the missioners (missioning for pirate agents), once there are enough in a region to be a force, then protection for the haulers and the miners in that pirate space can be achieved.how can we achieve this level of loyalty to a faction? reward isk for dogtags/corpses of players who are good standing with your factions enemies (for pirates this will be the \"home faction\" of your lowsec area. give standing gains when you kill capsuleers allied with your enemy home factions. have home factions do the same for those with good standings with pirate ones. giving standing gains for kills of your enemies will alleviate the 'mission grind' problem, and will ensure that pvpers will inhabit lowsec. also your idea of 'taking a cut' of the profits in the region is a good one. allow pirates with good standing (after mission grinding or killing your way up there) to take a cut in the tax revenue that the stations in lowsec collect.in short, make pirate space be an \"npc\" alliance. so that its pretty much like null sec, without the sovereignty wars or bubbles, and with pirate missions.my only fear is that it may end up being so lucrative, that too many people will leave null sec for low sec. at least the \"casual pvper\" will. which maybe is a good thing."
"but here is the ting ;) alts :) and such stuf. pirats wil be not interested protect tehm they jsut wil take his alts and kil them them self and lot them, i tink there need to be ting that if no vialince att al acure not only form them bu8t from every one els, if vilience they not resiving amoney att all toget more attention to protect thios miners or cearbears in low sec.and wil bring more fightuing between pirates actrualy more ship losts not only 1 cearbears ship them but more pvp ships more demanfd in market etc."
"excellent idea.but what if the contract is breached? will there be some sort of repercussion? i hope that it won't be achieved outside of the game mechanics. it would be pretty lame to not be able to lock somebody just because they had \"protection\". perhaps by way of a standing loss or fine. or a free insurance payout to the buyer of the protection in the case they are attacked?"
"people will simply farm her alts for isk, a system that generates the isk out of the air doesn't work. it needs to come from a source that is a: not infinite and b: re spawning reasonable quick. this actually means the people that the pirate kills need to pay for it to make it halve way interesting for a merc.then you will have actually a system that works for real bounty hunters and carebears will hate it because they get charged twice(ship, bounty) anytime they get killed in low sec by a pirate."
"not a bad idea...couple this with the idea that was proposed about buying a \"protection contract\", this could work. if you breach a protection contract, then concord will come for you... same as if you ganked a normal player is highsec. faster in 0.4, slowest in 0.1.edit: eperor, i misunderstood you. i don't agree that concord should be putting bounties. as djego mentioned any new isk source needs to be very well justified to ensure it is not abused. i was agreeing insofar as concord should be the enforcer of dutarro's protection contracts.the problem of alts isn't going to go away. the best defense against alt abuse is standings. standings need to be hard to gain, and you need to grind a bit to get them. if you can achieve standings too easily, then people will just pay alts to get standings. then use them to gank unsuspecting carebears who *thought* that they were on the same \"pirate team\". then just throw away the alt, and pass the loot onto the real main toon."
"i see that you tinking more fprm pirate point off wieve but heren need to tink more form pve ting how that poor cearbear wil arn fast inaf ship back if that its profitable for him to do there and such stuf idea is giood to bring ppl in low sec but need more economical tings here like sytem how can cearber survive there duing his own ting. and bring more fighting in the same time i tink thatr contract ting can probably work but stil need work out details much more details."
"the isk for the contract should be held in escrow for the duration. if the contract is breached, it is refunded to the buyer .. only if the contract is finished without violation does the pirate corp collect isk.as for accidental violation, there could be a popup warning, same as when you attack a neutral outside null sec."
"i tink there need suys chustem in that contract ting 1. cereabear pays mercs for protection h hee with live therei nthat low sec soem x timem, mercs have contracts for that area, cearbear accepting contract by paying all amount in midle bank or fat wever can be usued curent curerr contract system for that to, mercs not resiving mopney yet.2. time is going mercs protecting cearber etc.3. time its up for conteract.:a. creaberat lost ship to players, mercs not resive a**** all moeny go to cearbear beck - tax like seling tax. (rat loses , self destruckt not counts)b. cerbear not lost a ship in that time to players, mercs resiving money.if prices wil be resonable then actualy this can bring soem live into low sec and more fighting to over low sec systems, that wil bring pasive income to the low sec allainces and corps. by duing his own ting fighting in low sec. and wil bring up small gang pvp back in live."
"to true"
"that works too. paid \"protection\" i like it. very mafia. very piraty.almost there. but what if you are a hauler? surely you wouldn't pay the full value of your load for a protection contract, as it won't be worth it for you to haul anymore. but if you didn't, then it is always more profitable for the pirate to gank you and steal your load than protect you and collect the protection contract."
"if i hauled through the same low sec system(s) on a regular basis, i would consider buying protection there. no single load would be worth as much as the contract, but added together over a few days or weeks it would be a reasonable business expense."
"hmm. interesting.how long will these contracts last then? i suppose some variable lengths that you can choose, a day, a week, a month. have concord warn you before your contract expires.i think this is a good proposal...but there are holes.i still think there needs to be some non-isk disincentive for a policy insurer not to reneg on the contract. perhaps standing loss with the pirate faction. we don't want it to be too easy for a a rival to pay off the pirate.also there is the problem of the time value of the protection contract. hypothetical:hauler a pays 10 million isk for protection for 1 week.each day he hauls 2 million isk worth.problem: on the last day, if someone ganks the hauler, the pirate loses out on 10 million. -- unfair for the pirate. in fact, on the last day, smart haulers would have a friend gank them. :)what if you pay the contract on a prorated basis? so that if ganked on the last day, the pirate still gets 6/7 of the 10million? ie each day, the pirate \"earns\" 1/7th of the escrow?problem: then each day, the protection is only worth 1/7 of the escrow. :) which completely makes the protection contract worthless. (as any day the hauler is seen to move > 1/7*10,000,000, he is ganked.)edit: embellished my example"
"there will be always ppl who rather lose ships to npc's (=ccp) than fellow players"
"the protection contract would only be voided if the issuing pirate corp/alliance is the one to gank the hauler. a third party gank would have no effect. you're not really paying the pirates to 'protect' you, only paying them not to kill you for some period of time. this can be done today by paying a pirate corp to set you blue (and i've done it), but a more formal game mechanic may give more industrial players confidence that the contract will be respected."
"at the cost of a war-dec (one time fee), you would have to be straight out of the academy to not be able to afford it.in my vision you can only lose that fee if another corporation successfully claims the same area, but then you are a badass pirate with guns so defending your turf should be second nature.back when ccp still cared about rp they were willing to change standings of characters to suit the game. swearing allegiance could give a 5.0 to pirate faction and whatever derived penalty is associated with such a change (ie. hunted in nearly all empires).positive pirate standing would be lost if control is lost, but all negatives would/should remain to empathize the consequences of that life-style choice.the contract idea was debated 2-3 years ago and was discarded. there is absolutely no reason to assume that either side will live up to their end, the first hauler to exceed the value in escrow and 'poof'.the purchase price would need to be absolutely insane for it to make any sense .. think about what might need hauling or what other activity one might engage in and run the actual numbers (hint: hundreds of millions)."
"which has the problem that even today security standing loss only keeps a part of the community from ganking. nevertheless i do like the idea.for those being younger: link to older disucssions."
"but then how will i know 'who' to buy contracts from? if 10 corps are based in a region, would i have to buy contracts from all of them? what's to stop somebody from saying \"hey, i see your nice ship there, and nice cargo... buy a protection contract from me otherwise i blow you up now\". this will degrade into the 'bully and lunch money' scam immediately. if the protection contract is not a 'protection' contract, ie, a merc/escort contract, i don't see this working."
"yes, exactly why we need something to make the resident pirates a) feel resident, ie, a sense of loyalty to those who are loyal to their pirate faction. the cut of the taxes on the businesses/mission bounties run seem like a good idea that can be developed. b) incentivized to prey on outsiders, but protect their own haulers/missioner kin."
"the risk/reward ratio for ls is flawed. ls is supposed to be less risky than 0.0, but in fact it isn't. if ls were less risky than 0.0 then the rewards would be ok. risk in low-sec needs to be reduced. low-sec currently is the preferred place for pirates. it should be less ideally suited for pirates and more suited for corporations who want to take their first steps in the direction of 0.0. concord is currently protecting the wrong people. concord should not impose standing losses when corporations try to make a piece of low-sec secure for themselves and other capsuleers with good standing. some ideas:make it possible to kill people with bad concord standing (e.g. <0) without loss of standing. those people should display red in overview. perhaps use a gliding scale where -5 makes you red in highsec and 0 makes you red in 0.1. supply concord protection for people who have good standing. people with insufficient standing should display orange in overview. again you could use a gliding scale where 1 gives you concord protection in 0.4, while you need perfect standing (10) to have concord protect you in 0.1.add a concord standing requirement (e.g. >0) for anchoring a pos in low-sec.add a bounty worth a % of the value of a pirate's ship for killing a pirate's ship.new capsuleers cannot create jumpclones because of the high corporate standing requirements, which hinders them from taking more risks. your first jumpclone should only require a standing of 1. increasing the amount of clones may require increasing corporate standing."
"i like the idea of lowsec being the stepping stone for nullsec. this will only serve to put pirates into empire. at least there -4<0 standing players won't get shot at. i don't think we need this rule, you should get a sec penalty for shooting anyone above -5, same as in highsec.i do like this rule though. concord protection cannot be as fast as highsec though. the sliding scale should continue down from 0.5 to 0.1 appropriately.why concord? why not the pirate npc faction? seems strange that concord will have jurisdiction over sovereign empire systems.this is exploitable. i can make money by killing my own alts. not a good idea.i'm not sure i agree here. if you allow too many jump clones then people will be jumping all over the place. if people are so risk adverse, then they should not sink that much money into expensive implants too early on in their careers. but you may be onto something here. maybe instead of just making jump clones more prolific everywhere, make them easier to get in lowsec only. maybe you can buy standings with a pirate faction. and therefore get a jumpclone much sooner than grinding standings for a empire corp in highsec. this will also give incentive for pirates to keep their standings high with the local pirate faction. lose the standings and they will lose their ability to jump into their clones."
"how do you stop the seller from using an alt, or non-corp friends (or just dropping from corp) to gank the buyer?there would have to be a 2-way risk here, not simply a loss of deposit if you gank the carebear!this is essentially player driven insurance. a contract involves the escrow (presumably a reasonable estimate of the cost of the fitted ship) and and a rate (per hour) fee and is associated with one or more systems. if the ship is ganked by the contract owner naturally the purchaser obviously gets the escrow money, but its too easy for the seller to allow 3rd parties the kill, and probably too hard for the seller to genuinely offer round the clock protection from 3rd parties. i'm not sure how you fix that..."
"everyone i know hate the fact that one is stuck for ten minutes when opening one a cyno and since there is likely to be added a delay of some sort soon the time is ripe to add scripting as well.cynosaural field emergency shut-down script.- this script destabilizes the field allowing the user to collapse the field at any time after half a cycle at the expense of increased fuel requirement.fuel consumption multiplier: x8 (eight).bonus is that it will make recons a lot more powerful in their oft neglected role as cyno poppers. combined with their built-in fuel and cycle time discounts they will be able gods when it comes to cynos."
"i understand the problem but i don't like the proposed solution much. i'd rather see the cyno/jump mechanic reworked tbh.ps: even with their bonus recons can hardly carry enough fuel for 4 cynos, let alone 8."
"it'd be much more interesting if you could script your cyno to affect the cap of the ships jumping in. so you could half the duration of the cyno in exchange for ships arriving with zero cap, or double the duration in exchange for 50% cap."
"1) train for recons2) ???3) profit?"
"nerf moon gold completely its a fecking joke!!!! free stupid amounts of isk for doing nothing!randomise moon minerals every month r64 moons get moved around..ffs at least let ppl work for it, and at least let normal people have a chance of getting one if only for a month!70 tech moon in venal is a **** take too...."
"there are many actions a player can take that concord considers 'criminal' ... like stealing or shooting at a neutral in low sec. you can do these things without being instantly crushed by concord, but your security status drops. if you do these things often, you become an outlaw and cannot enter some high sec systems.i propose that high sec attacks made under offensive war declarations should also result in a security status drop for the attacker. the penalty should not apply if the target shot at or stole from you first, or if the war has been made mutual.the objective of this proposal is to maintain an element of danger in high sec, since unlimited empire wars can still be waged, but at the same time to enforce consequences for habitual war dec'ers. concord should regard a player who frequently wages offensive war in empire the same as one who frequently steals or pirates."
"interesting.but some questions linger,it makes sense as if you continually make offensive non-mutual wars decs then the 'global population' should see you in a more negative light. it gives a natural ceiling to habitual wardekers besides a monetary one. -i'm on the fence on this point, as there already is a increasing cost structures for continual war deking. but if the declarer will always get this penalty, then what incentive would anyone have to make wars mutual?"
"the same incentive as exists now ... when you make a war mutual, you force your attacker to stay at war. this is used when the defending corp decides to launch a counter-attack, so they are expecting to score more kills than their enemies anyway."
"exactly. the op probably didn't realize that having such a module that prevents anyone from helping you or your target, is only going to help the guy with the bigger ship. as i really can't see it ever being activated by the outgunned victim to keep friendlies from helping :)which basically amounts to an \"i win\" gank module, which will guarantee the destruction of the opponent of the one who activates it.categorically no to this proposal."
"this module was already made."
"so basically this is like \"duel\" from wow...no thanks."
"i don't know about this. it's kind of a bit more complex than you make it out to be.i know a guy with 12 accounts. 3 of them are his mains. he has a main pvp char, a main pve mission runner and a main pve inventor/hauler. 12 accounts...which would be his main?i pay for 1 account. that guy pays for 12 accounts. game changes effect my 1 account but effect all 12 of his. so should i have equal say to his 12 accounts?bullying. this happens in the game all the time. a person who posts anonymously under an alt can state things that they wish to say but would be \"punished\" in game for saying - attitudes and opinions that disagree with their corp, etc.yes we get to put up with the downside of forum trolls. that's a pain in the ass but eliminating the positives - that's kind of like the \"reviews\" on computer games that talk about only the vicious, vile and addictive sides of gaming without looking at the positive and beneficial aspects.as i stated at the start - it's a bit more complex than it seems and i think i'll stick with the ugly trolls i know vs the constraints your suggestion would put on the general community."
"agree totally, i dont mind that ninja looting is profession, and yes they are taking loot not salvaging a wreck, i want to shoot them in the face for doing it, without them just insta docking and waiting out the timer! whats the point of giving them agression in the first place!.this does need sorting but as usual ccp wont listen anyway....."
"sorry"
"since you have mentioned it ... these are some extra big cookies."
"supported"
"no need to apologise, not everyone can avoid being a multi-operator radio access network..."
"helping grimpaks cause to raise awareness for morons.he is so brave."
"ok, so what i've seen thus far is that the reason targeting the drones is useless is that they are either too many or, more importantly, have too much hp to be worth the effort to kill. so back to my question - has it been considered that the drones should be much easier to kill? pricepoint and such are a good reason to be wary of 'dispensable' fighter-bombers and fighters, but from what i can see if they were reduced in hp, they'd likely be reduced in minerals needed, and thus price as a whole (balancing out their higher loss ratio).from a different angle - we don't want to touch how many drones can be fielded at once (as in reduction), since that would completely undermine the aspect of a super-carrier and what makes it different. i think anybody could agree with this fundamental fact. i don't know that sc's should be any easier to kill as they are now (relative to their current ehp) - but there back to my original point, the only counter for a sc is more sc's it seems.so...food for thought: if you nerf sc's, will you actually create an alternative counter, or will their counter still be more sc's, but a support fleet makes a difference, or will you render the ship worthless? the point i'm getting at (hence the post name) is that the sc needs a weakness - not just a general nerf. tying in another sore topic: dreadnoughts are all but obsolete - i know ideas have floated around if shifting their role from station-killers to sc killers, but currently they lack the ehp and siege mode isn't conducive to this idea.tl;dr analyze super-carriers from a different angle - instead of thinking on what attributes need to be changed, think about what ships ought to be able to counter super-carriers (besides more scs).-dreadnoughts has been proposed as fulfilling this role, and thus not being obsolete anymore, but could other ships be made the counter? -should the drones be far easier to kill - and if so, by what ships?-a \"radical\" idea: what if super-carriers couldn't send drones at one another? (rp reasoning: carrier's have such powerful sensor arrays to direct their drones that they interfere with enemy drone targeting, preventing them from locking on. as it is, carriers are immune to ewar.)"
"this has more to do with blob warfare and less to do with scarriers yaay. 50+ sc in one fight has only recently been achieved, and that by everyone and their sister that banded together to break up the nc. should something be done about blob warfare? sure. are you derailing this thread by talking about blob warfare and linking to your own threads? yes."
"not quite sure if this is the place for players to make suggestions (maybe it's only for this council to do that), but i'd really like it if there was a way to list my buy and sell orders so that they're grouped by region. i'm a ditz, and keep forgetting to visit some places because i forget which region they're in. :p all in the name of efficiency!that's all -vixx"
"well there is one other way to try and reduce the botting is to have a option for player to mark some what known bot for ccp to look in to that toon and if ccp see that the toon is a bot and global mark them and other players could get a free kill but have the global marked till down time so if they try and get out and bot mine they could end up lossing more isk then they could bot mine, and for ccp have a reward system inplace where if they kill so many global marked bots they could get concord lp or soming, thats my thoughts"
"you should have kept them to yourself."
"sorry iocant suport this.i own 4 accoutns never boted with them even not posibul to difrently tained.i actualy will need to quit game if will be no plex to pay for a game. :( that my curent rl money status :("
"no.real players, like me, use plex in the intended fashion. you can't just blanket statement things like \"plex = bots\" or \"blacks = crime\". it's not right.maybe there is some truth to those facts. but not every plex is applied to a bot account."
"with each patch , it seems that the visibility of the capacity meter gets worse. it is now barely visible in bright light conditions. this is an important instrument and must be visible in all background conditions. keep in mind that colorblind people especially need this instrument to be bright and visible."
"well there is one other way to try and reduce the botting is to have a option for player to mark some what known bot for ccp to look in to that toon and if ccp see that the toon is a bot and global mark them and other players could get a free kill but have the global marked till down time so if they try and get out and bot mine they could end up lossing more isk then they could bot mine, and for ccp have a reward system inplace where if they kill so many global marked bots they could get concord lp or soming, thats my thoughts"
"i agree on this proposal but only one ting let how its was only veldrpar in belts noting els. ader ways all bots will move to lower sec systems and that will not change a ting."
"only one ting ccp its not so quick to rect so fast usualy that wil take them a days to see that but not mins or sec. and one more ting not oonly mark him in lcoal for every one but even alow warp to him to fast kil him. from local."
"well if ccp had few gm's that monitor region then they could act on the report instead of waiting for days. i know some other games have gms that do that why cant ccp. even if they moved to a lower sec system if there was some kind of reward like concord lp's you could find pilots hunting them down it could be a win win for ccp and us but like ccp would read this tho..."
"agree."
"i would like an in game or forum poll about those ****ed that dust 514 is a sony exclusive. even after 360 controllers were used in the demos.the vast majority ( minus pc players elitist) wanted 360, or multiplatform... never did we say \" we want ps3 exclusive.\"it seems that ccp has been punching us in the face for a long time now... this at least for me is the final straw.i think the only way for ccp to know how bad their idea was is a public poll in game where people will see it.poll question\"what consoles should dust 514 be released on\"a xbox 360b ps3c both consoles.let the people have a voice ccp."
"more then likely the switch is because of how strict microsoft is with xbox live and if thats the case i understand. and am not mad. what i don't get is why its a console only game? why can't we have a pc version thats what the poll should be."
"no, sorry it has to be pc - consoles are ageing. i own both ps3 and an xbox and i wouldn't care to play it on either.. i don't want to be nickel and dimed to death for content anyway so with that in mind, i'll step out of this discussion about this complete waste of time game with the following.ps3 exclusive = 4 month shelf life. gl ccp you're going to need it."
"sony is much more open to developers (though that doesn't make their games much better). microsoft is notorious for being finicky about what releases on an xbox...and especially what has live access.developing the game for xbox may have run into trouble too - or perhaps the contract was not worth pursuing on ccp's part. if i were you though, i'd be bugging microsoft, not ccp, about why dust 514 isn't on their console. just flat out assuming they prefer the ps3 and pc is a bit silly...considering the market for xbox is significantly better.short of it: put your head on straight and don't be an ass about it by nailing ccp. game contracting can be tricky at best and down-right ridiculous at worst (example: the fable series on other platforms, or how long it took halo to reach pc). moreover, asking on eve forums (which is a miniscule player-base relative to the fps player-base) is silly. why aren't you spamming on major gaming sites, microsoft's sites, xbox sites...etc? i bet if you rallied up all the xbox players to holler for dust514 you'd see a change."
"aim bots, wall hacks, client exploits, game-break macros, etc etc etc?besides that?and no, ccp shouldn't then fall back on solutions like punkbuster or vac (or an in-house similar solution). i despise both systems vehemently."
"c for sure. picking a console that has recently been hacked beyond oblivion is idiotic at best. i know for sure my credit card details wont touch anything that has sony on it."
"d. any of the above."
"doesnt matter, if you couldnt get a deal with ms why show them using 360 controlers and other crap. if they said it was a ps3 exclusive 3 years ago i wouldnt care. they announce this fail and its over.i want c, both consoles however shooters seem to do better on 360 opposed to ps3."
"my vote would go towards the console that had the most flexibility in regards to allowing the type of interaction between eve and dust that makes the whole concept unique. apparently ccp discovered that platform was ps3 (which doesn't surprise me)."
"was thinking... another 360 game ported to ps3... meaning all ps3 extra hardware is irrelevant now.either way.want to fail?keep it ps3 exclusive... oh well"
"i would love to see the option of both but as already stated xbox is a closed server so microsoft would be very heavy on what goes on on the server, same reason why steam is not on xbox but is on ps3."
"if ms is closed how come i can run a section 8 server myself for people to play on."
"i'd love it if dust was available on pc, but wouldn't want it to suffer from the massive trend for hacking and bots that pc suffers from.ps3.. wow.. such a negative after the recent problems they've had. makes me sad. xbox is cool as far as that goes, but aging and not really capable of supporting the graphics and capabilities of pc. either platform will suffer for that, and i can't imagine trying to play with the blinky shuttering graphics that i know from xbox of old. i actually think ps3 is one up on that, given i never had to deal with it as bad on that platform. a bit of lag here and there, but not like xbox. i guess, based solely on hardware, i'd say ps3, but definitely wish there was another option."
"it's almost like ms might have changed its policies since then, but we all know the world is a static universe so that's not possible."
"development cost explodes when making games for multiple platforms.but really, who cares.its a console fps, a genre with a life-expectancy measured in weeks/months.it will have marginal effect (if any) on eve. it's faltering is assured due to the above so integration will be superficial at best .. don't see ccp intentionally wrecking \"their baby\" by making it a crucial part.besides, ps are bigger than xbox in just about all markets except north america. if the objective is to use it as an interactive advertisement for eve (which i seriously suspect is the secret plan) then going with ps makes sense as more people = more potential new customers."
"put it on the goddamned pc or shove the game up your collective asses ccp, only advise i can give you. its an outrage, an insult and a kick in the face to your largest user base, pc gamers."
"now that you mention it... also console = younger average player age, so it might indeed work as a transition to eve.dust is the most expensive eve ad ever c/d?"
"i was on the page for the ps3 video and i noticed something. the dev that was answering the questions did not answer a single question that was raised about why it is not being a multi-console game nor to a single eve player. nice ccp to totally insult your true customer base. i will even bet that ccp will protect the snot nose little 12 year olds by saying piracy or deliberate bombing of planets will not be allowed unless you are actively participating in the fight. on the planet maybe but in eve space, that belongs to the true gamer base. i say lets put ccp on notice! we will destroy any and all ships participating in the dust514 gameplay. to put it short, we show the little snots what being an eve pilot really is. \"there are no rewards without the risk\" time to put those words to the test."
"ps3 rules, x360 drools.the x360 controller sucks anyway, and kinect is a joke."
"e. none of the above, not interested in consoles."
"/signed.they should also bring back faction f.o.f.s"
"bets added to google calender"
"here's my proposal which could potentially not only fix eve online, but also ccp.within ccp you make it a corp requirement on fridays to log into the game (as an entire corporate entity) and play.you can divide your corporation up by divisions and each division would represent corporations. you then draw straws as to who gets to be in ccp alliance and ccp alliance(dot) . from here, you then stage rvb style warfare where testing everything from gate camps one week to sov warfare. the corporations need to maintain an income so things such as manufacturing and pos management become vital to your alliance's survival.you then alternate weeks from doing sisi warfare with your alliance to the next week focusing on tranq. this way, bugs and frustrations which the players see, you will see as well."
"oh hell, why not?"
"i think many of ccp's employee's already play eve on unknown accounts. what they need, is their marketing director's, accountants, and the rest to play. sure, why not make it a whole party, but here's the thing. they have to start new accounts just like anyone else.this means that multiple ccp employee's are chosen by drawing straws to lead corporations in game, they then buddy invite ~20 people each from ccp and start corporations while going through rookie chat together. these corporations should be unrecognizeable from any other, with names chosen by the corp leader, with whatever logo and ticker they can fashion from the corp system. this should all be done while working full time at their respective jobs, and for the most part, outside of regular working hours. they should also have to pay for the accounts, and recieve no benefit for being a ccp employee. they may already do that; i have no idea.from their, they should have to work together, and link up with the other ccp corp's as they establish themselves. they should also have to recruit non-ccp members into their respective corps, and make secondary and tertiary accounts as needed. when one of them has the skills and isk to build an alliance, then that will be alliance one; also named as per the previous rules, and the second will then be alliance 2, with similar requirements.the alliances should then recruit both corps lead by other members of ccp, and interested player corps. this way both corps and alliances will be open to scams, theft, potential takeovers, and the rest. just like the rest of us, and they'll have to deal with \"i wanna macro\"ers too.warfare between corps initially is fair, but between alliances will be too obvious later. later the alliances should be required to work together to take over a section of 0.0, but not before they have had to fully test/explore highsec, and delve into the reaches of lowsec.in addition to this, other members of ccp should be chosen to draw straws for who gets to randomly enter the game with no connections and experioence play that way. these people should be of varying personality types, like the corp leaders, and be required to go it alone in game, with no knowledge, either way, of the other ccp members, corps, and alliances.after 1 year of play, they should have some idea what it's like to actually play this game from multiple perspectives. each member should also have to draw randomly on starting race, gender, and ship faction for each and every character they create. i like it"
"1) many ccp employees play eve online already - in fact there are various employees dedicated to playing the game, like the gm staff and the various isd developers when major content or patches are released.2) ccp owns three games, not one, and two are slated for launch in the next year to two years...so eve is not the only focus. (in fact, a dev answered in that 'answers thread' that those two games are two of the three primary priorities at the corporation right now, incarna is the third.3) corporations in real life have a few people that test their product and draw a paycheck...the rest are building and maintaining said product. if you spend your daily job building a game, do you really want to spend your free time playing it a lot too? (see \"why 90% of barneys end up in jail by episode 20\")4) if you review ccp's history of patches, fixes, and content, you'll notice the company has a much higher turn-out rate than most game companies. while their expansions are not as large as most games, few can claim as many and the sum of the parts make for a great game - one that you play.5) eve online does not need 'fixing' - the game's population continues to grow (not in accounts but players!), indicating the game is reaching more players but maintaining its veteran base as well. (see \"why aion's current player-base are all vets and nobody is leveling\")6) ccp is not broken as it has merged with another fantastic company, is developing additional games, maintaining a mmo at the same time, and continues to grow as corporation both in fame, fortune, and friends.your forum post could have been better spent actually informing them of what you want fixed, as opposed to your \"here: stop working on identified problems and look for more.\""
"personally, i didn't suggest that ccp members play during work hours. quite the opposite really. i also didn't say they couldn't quit if they got bored, or decided they didn't like it. and i wasn't suggesting they play the game to identify bugs, but rather to see what state the game is in, and evaluate how that affects them and their interest in it. there is plenty wrong with eve, which i personally don't attribute soley to ship balance, pos issues, ui stuff, or general bugs and glitches. actually i don't really think, for as diverse and sizeable as eve is, that there is a great many bugs. even the balance issues are rather small for all that people inflate their importance. ships are actually fairly close to balanced now, even if they are not really balanced for the diversity of player use of them. fact is, they are balanced by factional opposition, rather than player use. if everybody flew ships fit according to faction profiling for their faction, in opposition of enemy factions, it would work fine. the pve balance doesn't help either, given difficulty is determined assuming you spec for the faction you are opposing in each mission, which means mission runners have to fit for specific resistance and dps, where pvp players can invade their missions and take advantage of that foreknowledge. griefer pvp always gets the tactical advantage in eve.that's not the issue though. the issue is that eve is over-rated and tired and needs new life breathed into it. the majority of remaining players are botters/macroer's, rmt's, griefers, and nullsec herds and herdsman. most highsec players that don't do industry or mining are in fact alt's, and/or just interested in solo missioning or one of a few other tasks that they find time for without becoming to involved.new accounts are actually mostly rmt's or rmt slaves/workers going back out to do what they were doing on a banned account yesterday, with a few real newb's interspersed, and some spy/infiltrator/alt accounts started up by people who don't read the eula or ignore it, or legitimately started as a new account. those are relatively few compared to the majority, but still populous. their have been some mass influxes of new players, but they actually mass exodused shortly after. anyone who assumes/thinks eve is growing is fooling themselves. just because someone asks stupid questions in rookie chat, doesn't mean they really are new. so, not only would ccp greatly benefit their own games population by doing this, but they would have the feedback of all their various staff to consider later.what did you like?what didn't you like?what do you think we could be doing better?you see?"
"i suggest the last poster lacks imagination. chances are, most of you do. i can catch any unprobeable ship, probeable ship, bubble immune ship, cloaky ship, or combination thereof. not only that, but i can completely blockade gates using current mechanics, so that no one gets through, or virtually no one. maybe the very odd slippery individual will by chance get by, but it's not very likely.i would require a fleet of course, to do any of this, but i have figured it out, and i know it's possible and quite feasible. no super cap's required.what you all are, is scared of the unknown."
"for crying out loud csm - transcribed - reviewed - exchanged - agreed upon and published - it's not that complicated with instant online communications. you guys remind me of a monkey f#c#i#g a football. please post in csm sites - news and rumor all over the place and deathly silence on the official forums. we all realize csm does not read \"assembly hall,\" because you know better than us, but at least communicate with us on the official forums instead of 0.0 related sites and blogs."
"just finished my two subjects and submitted them. the process works like this:at the summit every one of our sessions was recorded. each of us chose a few sessions and are going through the video so we can make sure we didn't miss anything important that needs to be relayed. we all write up descriptions of what was discussed, and send it to the csm panel as a whole and also to ccp so it can be edited for anything nda breaking. once everybody is ok with it being released (csm for style/substance, ccp for nda) the entire minutes will be released."
"thought this idea was clever just looking to see what other people think.let me first start by saying i'm far from a carebear that hauls goods around and ive been on both ends of the stick for this ive done my share of high sec jihadism and gotten blown up by it. i love this mechanic of the game however i think if its re-worked slightly it could liven up low sec.the problem:as it is now when carrying expensive cargo i feel much more at danger in highsec then low sec. why is this? my enemy in high sec will unlikely be attacked before he scans my cargo and says to himself thats worth him risking his sec status loss and 10-30 mill ship to have a 50/50 chance at winning my 100+ million isk drop. you'd think low-sec would be exceedingly more dangerous as \"anyone\" can attack you since there is \"no concord\". as true as this may be - the gate guns are a lot more responsive then concord leaving you much less time to get it in (if your gunna die) and just being in low-sec allows other players to attack you!f that im staying in high sec where i can hunt carebears peacfully.the proposed solution!cargo that has been dropped from a industrial, transport, freighter or jump freighter will be dropped in a \"cargo vault\". the vault is similar to a passworded can. however anyone with the right \"hacking mod\" will be able to hack the cargo vaults secruity device and open the treasure chest for all its riches and bull****. doing so will result in being gcc'd to everyone from jita to nol-m9 however it will not get concords attention. the owner on the cargo vault will however be able to re-obtain his loot with out consequence.how does this solve the problem?!for starters having a escort in high sec will actually do you some good. in the event you are killed your friends will be able to attempt to secure the can for you to come get it.anyone attempting to take the can un-lawfully will need equal protection as i'm sure there will be many angry people witnessing this event who want to avenge the random guy who was just blown up.anyways im ranting ill leave this bull**** up to your imagination - let me know what you think !"
"i like the idea but instead of region (too big too manage),consider being mayors of a constellation. it's smaller and more easily managed. besides, how does one get voted into being a mayor? majority rule? you'll have major metagamming issues with that. see mitani being voted into csm by all of goon."
"oh its this thread again.the penalties for ganking someone in highsec are good enough as is. you do lose your ship and you take a standings hit. why do people do it then, because dumb people who want to carry absurd amounts of isk in unbuffered space trucks, or people that want to gain in game resources while watching tv provide plenty of 'game' that bring the gankers off the low sec gates into highsec. as long as you aren't the idiot doing that you probably won't be shot at."
"pirates gank anything and everything of value they can, not just those that have $$$ in their untanked hauler leaving jita on auto pilot because they forgot to read about what eve really is.all im proposing is adding a little more favor to those on the ganked side rather then the opposite. there comes a point when a gank becomes more then just a gank and cannot be retributed in high sec, low sec is low sec no point in getting into an argument over that every action has a reaction (butterfly effect) here. and as it stands, ganked has no direct reaction except a loss of ship and sec, but unless you are completely oblivious to how eve operates you know that fully going into that en devour thats going to happen. so really tell me what repercussion is there.losing sec and ship is half the fun in it! i'm just proposing there be a balance between the two and add something contributive to eve rather then something worthless."
"yep the company line is clearly they are doing this instead of working on ways to improve lag overall. or let me propose an alternate theory to you! this was an idea that was born of the team gridlock guys which we spotlighted and got put in the limelight. there's a good chance this will be in our future as a feature and while nobody has ever claimed it will fix lag, it will make the game playable instead of completely broken. this is in addition to efforts being made to fix lag. we think this is a 'good thing' -tm and worthy of coding effort instead of solely concentrating on just lag fixing efforts. i mean what happens when people stuff 2000 dudes in a system? 3000? you can fix lag but the playerbase will scale their efforts to take advantage of it. i'd like for the game to at least still be playable if not slow when this happens.wait was this a serious comment i'm responding to? i hope i didn't respond to a troll"
"wormhole, class 5 and 6's, can be converted to handle a growing alliance. no sov to worry with, no hot dropping, all that is needed is 'already way past due' buffing of pos mods and ui.pos refinery buff- take away the limiter of what can be refined at once. bring the time per cycle way down.individual permissions for similar mods like cha's and sma's.in this kind of enviroment a group can build the weapons and cordination against relatively same sized opponents and only be able to lock down that system with continued presence."
"that pos fixes, updates and enhancing... it adds value to every type of space, not just wormholes and i do hope they improve that stuff for you folks with the guts to buy & build from pos's.that's a pretty cool portion of the game that i think could really use improving.as for wh as the option - as you say, and as it's been adopted by the community - if you want risk/rewards, with out the bs of pucking up every time an alliance leader drops their drawers - wormholes are the answer. all that political bunk that is the \"fun\" for sov holders takes a powder with these places. they are nullsec for the small guys."
"1.0"
"all good and useful addition."
"bump"
"gallente combat recon bonuses suck. split between missiles and hybrids. focus on one like to others !"
"i agree that supercaps in general need some serious tweaking. i agree with the idea that they should not be able to disappear with a log off. for the most powerful fleet weapons in eve to disappear with a log off is game breaking. you should have to find safe harbor and defend that harbor if you want to keep your super / doomsday weapons in service."
"i think that when the only counter to x is \"bring more of x\" then it needs to be re-examined. it leads not only to stale gameplay but also a much less tactical environment."
"+1made this character when i first started playing and i made female characters in all my games. now i'm the opposite and prefer a more realistic representation of myself in games, i am unable to do that currently, but have been dying to at least change t"
"not supported.just because you may not like the way the races look after they got buffed out doesn't mean you can change your ancestry. changes to bloodline within a race makes even less sense as they completely different in looks! ( well with the exception of maybe civre and deteis. ). i think some of the traditional old school star trek fans really didn't like the way klingons looked after their makeover in 1979 but that didn't mean they weren't klingon anymore. most importantly, changing anything permanent about your character can be exploited by players looking to \"lose their bad rep\"."
"option 3!! dooooo eeeeeeet ccp!!!!"
"no nobrainer is nobrainerer"
"i just log on sisi and tried incarna. the cq looked good, but it still have lots of issues:terrible camera adjustmenttons of laggg, you should focused on optimization!inflexible character movementwasd dont work fine, you will stuck in corners easilyuse mouse to move just make things worse, you will even lose camera control so plz give us an option to disable cq, its just a waste of computer resources for me now.to be honest, if dust514 just act like cq, no doubt it will be an epic fail."
"i can understand your distaste with character selling, but that isnt the point of this thread ...although, you do realize youre actually advocating character selling, right? by starting a new character just for a new name, what do think people will do with their skilled-up old characters? i dont know anyone who would throw away an asset like that just what side are you on?reading comprehension. your blatant ignoring of my debate, shutting out of all arguments, and emotional outbursts mean you might want to consider a bit of introspection if you can stomach the hypocrisy. ill let you consider your own special advice:......um, anyway,there is another option, changing the game for the better. as eve continues to evolve, so too should perceptions"
"argumentum ad hominum. let's stay on topic.non sequitor. and begging the question. you are assuming the premise that eve will get better with this change, yet that has very much yet to be shown, and indeed what we are discussion here."
"what is it with all these silly 'harsh conditions' i mean why? there is no need..jeez let people change their character name once per year flat fee $10. add and extra name change tab or add to employment history thats it job done.why make it so difficult, and also $50 are you serious!.."
"perhaps (i'm guessing) that there are a lot of rich griefers out there, who would gladly pay to gank the crap out of you, join your corp, steal your isk, change their name, and hope you don't come looking for them. (histories won't work if the character search engine won't search for past names)"
"i don't see why the guns need to be balanced wrt each other nor why hybrids need a distinct advantage over lasers or projectiles.if they did, it would buff gallente and caldari at the expense of the other races, if we consider the big picture and secondary weapon systems of missles and drones, and the buffs that these races have for them."
"if the only commonly used gallente ships are their droneboats, and those droneboats prefer to fit projectiles or lasers even when given a small bonus to hybrids, then there's probably something wrong.i like the gist of the op's proposal. right now the big bar to using hybrids in pve is their lack of versatility. blasters are unable to hit anything outside of point blank range, railguns poor tracking make them weak against small or close targets. and the cap drain puts a big strain on the active armor tank most gallente ships are designed to use. i'll leave it to the pvpers to discuss whether this might make hybrid weapon platforms overpowered."
"hm. okay then. i am not against tweaking them if it makes them used more, but i am against buffing them without gimping them somewhere else, so as not to imbalance the total race weapon set. so 'sure why not' to making them 'unique', so long as they don't become stronger or weaker net net than they currently are.how.... is the hard part. i leave that for pvpers."
"the thing is that once upon a time lasers were so worthless that no one used them and fit projectile turrets to the ships that used lasers (due to cap issues), and ccp effectively stated that this was bad and lasers received a series of indirect buffs that made them the weapon to use. so much so in fact that people started using lasers in place of projectiles because lasers could hit just as far as projectiles while doing more damage because of falloff mechanics. once again, ccp stepped in and said that this was bad and gave projectiles some buffs to compensate for falloff, which have more or less balanced lasers with projectiles.the problem with hybrids isn't so much a problem with hybrids as it is the simple fact that hybrids were balanced against lasers that could only fire for a few cycles and couldn't scratch armor and projectiles that missed half the time. the other weapon systems got buffs that they needed, but hybrids have been left behind.at least that's how i understand it."
"go ahead, make a new disaster!seriously, horrible idea. i too like a clean skill sheet; but uninjecting only causes major (often hidden) problems; like what will you do with skills that are prerequisites for other skills? take caldari cruiser v, for instance. if i uninject it i can still fly my tengu; but, lo and behold, what if i hadn't done caldari strategic cruiser v yet, and wanted to get it to lv 5? oops!or, worse, what if people uninject skills, and, what'd ya know, turns out half a year later they need the skill after all? that's just a thousand annoying petitions waiting to happen.so, not supported."
"if you are just uninjecting 0 level skills and not getting a skill book back out of it, then gamewise it should be fine. (at worse you may fuzz up the gui \"prerequisites\" tab in that it may still show you \"o\"'s instead of \"x\"'s after you uninjected, but that's just a gui glitch that should clear up.but on the other hand this also makes it about the most pointless exercise ever."
"cheerios chaos,could we get the no border client finally w/o windowig to choose from? it would be actually awesome compared to the rotten shark etc (which was promised, but never delivered, guess due some tower problems). as i can appreciate very much for fullscreen which works the best and windows that you can share across your multiwindow environement (where you can do all the cool stuff, like.. uhm.. mine and stuff) while you are shooting at something that you do not like. so please, before you start the rampage to create new space barbie clothes, do this :)cheers"
"fallacy: affirming the consequent."
"summary so far:problem with just making it optionally shown:people will read into reasons why you aren't showing one standing or another. which will lead to trust issues. and god knows there are too many problems with trust in the game already. we don't need another trust sink.but, i recognize that rpers need such information, and although making rpers happy isn't a higher priority to ccp than closing an social exploit tool, if they can be made happy without exposing the exploit then they should.what about this: make it available info in the limited api. rpers will necessarily need to trust each other anyway, and any legitimate access to standings information is used to garner trust in people you may not know. that means you should have no qualms about giving them your limited api."
"ccp removing game elements so they can add different game elements without upgrading hardware? no.they say avatars do not cause tq lag because it's another server.so make standings on another server instead of removing them."
"also i have to click support so the csm can be sure they ignored another person"
"maybe you missed the whole part of the thread which talks about the problem and likely cause for standing removal was its use as a griefing tool."
"no i didn't miss your likely cause i just ignored it as its been a \"likely cause\" for 7 years but that it took over 11 seconds to access my standings page seemed much more problematic and hasnt been that way for 7 yearssorry for not expressly disagreeing with your premise i hereby expressly disagree with your premise"
"due to lag reasons, they should just remove our ability to see our own standings."
"i'd actually like it if they made the sub's more useful. strictly from an ex-tengu pilots perspective, i have to agree that i usually ended up with a ship that looked funny, because of the sub's i needed. i've also made tengu that looked pretty cool, but unfotunately were not worth flying. either because of an odd mix of sub's, or just because the sub's are spec'd so poorly that there is no way anyone would be caught flying them. i wouldn't mind if they swapped the sub appearance around honestly, and made the cool ones the ones that people need, but that doesn't really solve the whole every t3 looks the same problem. that just boils down to nobody in their right mind will use any other sub combination than those particular 2 or 3. they really are the only ones that work; everything else is a just flying board waiting to be nailed."
"i'd also like to have the option of choosing the shape of the wingy bit on my tempest. i think octagon is in. any argument for arbitrarily changing the look of a ship just because you want it that way is so wrong i don't really know where to start. as the more practical reasons have already been covered by my esteemed colleagues, i'll go with the story argument. a shield subsystem just looks like that. if you don't like it, don't install one. you can't change it's looks unless you have a degree in starship engineering and want to risk damaging it's structural nano fiber whatzits. and even then if your engineer isn't named geordi laforge, then your chance of blowing up your warp core is 20% per jump."
"yeah. especially the almost always needed dissolution sequencer looks a bit wonky. so maybe ccp just needs to do a small design overhaul at some point. no biggie, though.and while they're at it, can i have my much craved for 'sleeper' piano black hull, please? that'd be awesome. :)"
"well, the positive side to my idea is that while you may not be able to guess the config of an enemy by looking at his t3, he can't guess yours either."
"supported, but not for the aesthetics reasons op cited. it is far too easy to tell a t3's capabilities just by looking at it. it has huge impact on non-blob pvp, and defeats one aspect of t3's advantage in versatility."
"okay. let's instead put 5-10% of empire-space insurance payments as a bounty on the killer's head, if he was the aggressor, outside wars."
"i think what we have discovered here is what happens in a world without law and order.who would have though that those grade 10 history teachers were right. for a country to function there must be an executive, legislative and judiciary branches of government. we live in a world without an investigative branch of policing, and no lawyers. for all those who thought that the world would be better off without lawyers, i suppose now you know exactly what the world will be like. ( trust is a commodity )add to this the ability for people to use alts, and you really have a tough problem brokering trust."
"the issue is that low sec has become like 0.0. all the 0.0 alliances that have left or been removed have gone to low sec. which itself has become blobby and supercap crazy as well. there is quite a few alliances and corp i know that have a good deal of supercaps and this is the issue. do oyu think having a better bounty system is going to encourage people to look for them when they can get super hotdropped? not really.also i personally have hunted pirates and you know what they are either camping with a gang or you cant find them. you also have to remember most pirates will also use a scout on the otherside of the gate they are camping, and use ninja spots. so even if you do look for them, they see you coming before you even jump, so the advantage is much for them.bounty system will do nothing to help1) remove the use of caps in low sec (apart from travel).2) perhaps lower the number of low sec systems to encourage people to live closer, thus more conflict and chance to find them.3) then perhaps look at bounty system still not sure it helps, as people can hire mercs anyway.another problem is that alot of space is not populated, we have travelled 100 jumps and not really seen anything, maybe the odd one person or so. again because people see you before you see them.this was suggested before, remove local or remove gates, to combat this. there seems to be a big support for removing local. whether ccp listens is another thing."
"the problem with the bounty system is that it can be gamed. same with the mercs far hire. there needs to be some regulatory body and formal system, similar to what contracts did to ensure people follow through on commitments.i haven't yet had time to think about your cap gimp points though. but i think reducing low sec systems is a non-starter."
"yes this is a very simple solution and imo would solve a lot of low sec/0.0 problems.no need to invent new stuff or overbuff low sec/0.0 to make them work. the quality of ore would need to be reduced a lot in high sec. so large scale manufacturing wouldnt be possible there it would only be a learning ground!!!"
"it's not a learning ground. it should be the home to people who don't want to fight all the time, the carebears. thinking that it is just a noob learning ground is a slippery slope. especially when its a large chunk of the galaxy. thinking that it cannot have any good ore is also strange. i mean, if the ore was so good in lowsec, don't you think that the empires would \"make it highsec\" by stamping out the lawlessness there and claiming it from the pirates, and have concord patrol there too?fact of the matter is, lowsec is supposed to be a fringe territory of scoundrels, smugglers, and the underworld. if you want to buff anything in lowsec to make it lucrative for players to live there, it must follow this theme. so make a free drug/booster zones. make it free slave trafficking zones. if you make boosters produceable there, it will become what it was meant to be, a gateway between null and highsec, where people from both those places can meet in between, and do business with each other. maybe start up illegal gambling side games that only run in lowsec stations, like eve poker and high stakes sabaac. in fact, the casino idea can have a lot of possibilities.as for slave trading... why not have a marketplace for selling alts? in story it will be equivalent to selling slaves, or biomass. :)also, remember, in lowsec, isk can buy you anything. maybe have agents that can \"fix\" your security rating for cash. or allow you to install jump clones just for a fee."
"that the hool point you pay for protection tird party coutnts ader ways that will not work attt all pirates ned to do soemting to resive money gate camp alot to not let tird party in inside or chase them in his teretory, ader ways miners and cearbears nil not go there. so to say pirate organization need to take full responibility. and if ting if there some one els ganked his houler in last day means pirtaes didint done inaf on that last day, they suld do more, abnd pay concecvences for bean inactif with not resiving money."
"i tink need to be soem structure as in 0.0 space but low hp ( araund that 10 ppl gang in 20 mins can shoot it down and 1 reionfiorce timer for 1,5 days seted from living entaty, not posible ancho by station or by moons or by pos0 you anchor structure by planet you control system and its sowed in the map and in system info, if structure lost so all contract money go to the buyers, and pirat not resiving a **** agein for not bein active inaf to control his teretory. in eve its such ting meny ppl now forcusing need more kils but with kils they wish cearbear kills but need more pvper kil not cearbear ship kill. i tnk such low sec mechenics wil inpruve low sec and inpruve small gang pvp, make more pvp loses. and it need to be protection contract if pirate entaty wish moeny need to do somting to not only not do:)"
"ting its such no not meny ppl cares about standings that can be got back erry fast. join soem 0.0 allaince or corp week and done.to make les risky the space give pover to pirates to protect his cearbears and miners hoo payying to him no ned actualy rp ting even here jsut simple control module off sytem and fuull responsibility form pirate entaty for protection contract taht will work and miners wil statrt mine in low sec cearbears wil go sisions ther. pitrate wil be come as concord there in that systems. they can even make gang one big for sytem and bring soem pvpers in and patrol it if soem warps to soem mienr or cearbear jsut warp to that carebear and kil that disturber fast. in mean time acma gate to not alow ader pirate organaszations enter system."
"if alt kils buer than pirate wil not resive a****, if some one quit a corp and kils buer pirates not tresiwing a ****.this mechanics needto be taf ader ways they will not work at all, here cant be no but if or somting.ader ting in this context needto speak to about such ting as ppl can quit corps to easy, that to one ting wath need to consider here. my porposal on this is bring in all eve a susch ting as quit payment if you quit corp you nedto pay to corp if you got kicked the same that ppl not quiting fast corps in war or not quit fast and not payy eny consiqunces. this fee can be seted up by ceo or true corp voting system wath its already in game there ned motre tinging on this ting, meny tings not wiorking as suposto work in this same reason that ppl can qyuit corp fest inaf and not payuy eny consecuences for that."
"low sec is very quiet and barren beyond the border systems and hubs, what gives you lots of space to do plexing and other stuff relative easy and undisturbed. there is nothing wrong with this form the perspective of people that live there.if you want quick and easy pvp stick to the hubs and border systems, if you want to catch non **** fitted ratters/plexers or looking for solo pvp while you try to evade bigger gangs check out the deeper systems. the reason why you have issues catching this people there is that they will be not the random empire guy jumping into 0.4 and warping to the top belt, what you will find are also people that are regular in low sec and most of them know how to not get killed by the first roaming ship passing by."
"to remove local not suport you will as roming gtang you will have to much advantage ppl wil be not abel ieven h hide befor you heit them ting its suchj in eve no need more cearvbear kils but needd pvp kils or if soem pvper engage rater in belt or in anomaly he to got tosted just naturaly. that can i ncrease than litle demand anfd pveper wuld get his kill. i wil repat need more pvp loses not cerbear loses. ned more pvp not jsut ganking ganking is kiling cearbears that ganking. if you wil kil cearbear couple times ( allready seened) hee wil move away for m that space att all and look for ader one. actualy eve ned to increase demeand ffor ships etc its more pvp loses not cearbear loses. that its one off reasoens way low sec not populated there is no cearbears they dont have thee eny ting to lok witoput losing his ship. but lsoing his ships they dont like and that need face every one. ting its such cearbears its main population weath its nedet every vere they are sole off t space not pvpers (sorry for that but its true) no cearbers nio targets in sytem no vpepers hoo loking for them or protecting them, no cearbers no demand for ammo and modules no manufutures and industrilsts there. thjis was verry good showed when ccp opened anomalys 0.0 was ful with targets and ful with ppl now tthey removed most off anomalys 0.0 pp lconcentratign in anomaly paleces no targets or ppl in ader systems.actyyaly ccp ned to in crease anomaly count in 0.0 :) that wil help pvpers and cearbears to pvpers by that that systems wil be verry much piopulated and scroling sdowen and up local its pain full not alwasy you will see the red incoming so wuill be more lsoes to from cearbers not only pvpers. as example can go a ziriert and mamet suroundintg systems, good agents good creabear amount good market pvpers there is to, and ciontract system can so to say give that ppl are making such places as ziriert. (was nto there long time but itink noting chnaged there)"
"better yet...build a pile of tech 1 cheap throw away cyno frigs....problem solved."
"wouldn't it be nice if you could deploy a cyno without using an alt?"
"i'd like to see moon goo to be a limited resource and that it can be mined out. not the limitless isk tap we have now. it should take 3 months to remove all the resources from a moon.once all the tech/dyspro/\"insert and goo here\" has been mined from a moon another moon goo resource is placed somewhere else in eve. this would have an impact on rmt'ing as the moons will be distributed throughout the universe.may spark border wars over newly aquired moon materials with your neighbours.will also make people have to re-scan moons in their region on an ongoing basis. smaller entities may be able to hold the valuable moons without having a 100+ super capital blob as backup."
"nc qq thread ftw :)"
"not so sold on the 'randomize' resources, idea. if only we had that magic quantum reality changing device. america could have used it to make all the middle eastern oil deposits appear under california.seriously though, if people knew that resources were going to 'rerandomize' every x months, then it would cause a serious disruption in the activity of an alliance. not to mention the most obvious negative effect of this: why bother building up infrastructure or investing any isk in a system if you aren't sure you are going to get at least a certain return on its value? in fact, why bother even fight wars at all if the strategic value of systems would randomly shuffle about every x cycle? what will end up happening is that you may just end up sitting and waiting for next cycle's reshuffle. this will cause the exact opposite effect to occur that you intended. no body will fight any wars for resources anymore. peace will reign throughout the galaxy. utopia realized. and with it, boredom. and everyone will just stop playing. :)(okay i embellished the last bit a tad)"
"then need nwew mechanics how allainces and corp wil resive soem isk for all reinbursments etc. sov holdings etc. big projects taxes defently not inaf.ah forgot suopt tech treat ;)"
"new idea let's add a random moon resources with limited avaibility in wh. itwill make wh more interesting and of cource make more sense for capturing wh."
"i have just logged in to the singularity server to have a look at the shiny new station environment, when i noticed something very unnerving:male- and female-only clothing?is this what eve is coming to? old fashioned stereotypes? not to mention that it doesn't fit in with the backstory of a futuristic progressive society, i was rather hoping ccp were past this neanderthal attitude. please, remove \"gender factors\" from the upcoming expansion and let's have an enjoyable summer patch."
"wow shut up if you dont like it quit"
"lol, unnerving? how dramatic. considering that eve is a spaceship game, i don't want to see one extra second of dev time wasted on clothing that works well enough as it is.i'm sure that chaps and ball-gags and hooker boots are available with other \"games\".not supported"
"if this game were made 20,000 years in the future, i'd agree with you. but the game is marketed at today's culture and they want clothes that make them...look fabulous"
"they answered that some time ago ; nothing to do with ethic, it's a graphism issue.they need clothes that fit the body, and clothes of the other gender won't. and they don't have time for that.and here i must agree with them."
"we all know bot's are ratting happily in 0.0 23.5 hours a day and raking in billions of bounties a day.why not remove the bounties on all npc's in all regions including missions. you will have to increase isk payouts for missions to compensate.to compensate the null sec players who rat for their income allow the introduction of agents in player owned stations.to install an agent in your station you need to upgrade the system similar to pirate detection arrays are now. the higher you have the index the higher the agent you will attract with the possibility of having level 5 agents in your space.all members of the alliance who holds the outpost gain access to their agents."
"then ratting bots will be replaced by missioning bots (which already exist)."
"that wil braek corps to they will nto resive ney mo0ney form taxes.etc."
"there are tons of bots out in drone-space. they don't have bounties there already. this wouldn't stop bots at all."
"contrary to the popular belief, the only effective anti-bot tool is ccp's banhammer (effectivnes of the banhammer is whole another story).changing gameplay because of bots is a sign of a lost battle against them."
"only in the form of courier missions. there is one with a mining mission feature, i doubt anyone uses it though. currently, there are no combat mission capable botting programs. you'd think they'd have one by now, but they don't."
"lolsomeone else might believe you, but not me :"
"bump on an important topic. needs more thumbs up guys. try and think of the player and not trolling please."
"not suported.then move out befor go away. but eny way if you not participated to defend your space you need lose everting incloding all that **** wath you had there in station, i even not understand way ccp still not made that if station is concured all lot wat its tere gets a winer so ro say all pernoal **** gos to winner (afcors ned give soem time to retake the station to) but this can be a motivating ting to ppl go defend all tyhos structures, if tey will lose it so they lose evertining wath its there inside. for now ppl not care soem one ataks soem stupid st6ation its boring i will not go to defend it. vbut if hiss wallets wuld be on stake they will be pused to go and defend it. ( here can even bring soem damge modifiactor so to say if station taked givep pl 2 weeks to retake station and new owner to hold it so long, then so to say half of inside items get damged half gos to winner."
"sorry, not supported.i see this like the 'allow name changes' or 'un-injecting skills' or other 'champagne wishes and caviar dreams' proposals.sorry that an aspect of the game doesn't please you."
"oh and just because i like you, better than you, i'll actually throw in a reason. you and your alliance track down a bastard who stole 1 billion isk from your corp wallet, cornered his ship in a dead end constellation. you set up 23/7 watches and afk cloakers to keep watch on the gates.3 weeks later, he surfaces in jita. somehow he sneaked past your blockade. hmm drats, does that seem fair? - argumentum ad absurdum."
"not supported.your problem was caused by poor planning on your part, not poor game mechanics."
"actually it's eve, i don't know this eve you spoke of.also, getting out of hostile territory has become a rite of passage for returning players, the first challenge they must overcome. denied!"
"needs punctuation, spelling and grammar. this post gets an f."
"any one agree with that?"
"i was reading about this process in this thread [url="
"you are misstaking leverage with margin trading.leverage is when you can multiply profit/losses by spending broker money, and only fraction of yours.with margin trading you cant loose more than you gambled, becouse you cant win more than you gambled, simply because you dont borrow any money with it, you just setup buy order, that you need to have money for in your wallet to complete. you in no way decrease the amount of money you have to spend in order to acquire goods, you just reduce amount of frozen funds and postpone payment to the moment of closing of contract."
"^^this.not a loan. the most you can call it on is a 'dishonest intention to buy' akin to flashing orders on the market. which is not technically illegal btw (at least on the tse) though it is frowned upon. failure to complete an order may result in temporary suspension of your exchange trading license. maybe penalize the number of orders that the trader can hold temporarily for each consecutive infraction? -5 orders after the 3rd infraction, -10 at 5 infractions etc etc.no to negative wallet balances. as mentioned many times already. it can and will be gamed.negative wallet balance? toss toon to the biomass heap, start up a new toon. isk is now sunk out of the economy. there unfortunately isn't a repro business in eve. heck, we'd have to start with a banking system first. then credit rating agencies... etc etc. you take for granted how many necessary agencies that we need in rl to get around problems like this."
"you haven't even read the description of the skill.opening your own thread to make a comment to a reply on another thread ftw."
"despite some slight misconception on op's part, i do support removing margain trading, for the simple reason that it does not work, unlike irl, due to an important difference. i personally knew someone who was given jail sentence for a scheme partially involving margin trading. it was suspended, but he was still ruined, financially and otherwise. there is no such consequences in eve, which is what led to all runaway scams that clog up market screen. it was a concept that would never have worked in game to begin with. not all things that work irl makes viable game mechanics."
"really? i'm sure every destroyer that has pulled a battlecruiser out of warp may beg to differ. but you were joking, and i appreciate the comedic relief in what was getting to be a stoic crowd :)"
"a fair fight in eve means you did something wrong."
"correction:a fair fight *by choice* in eve means you did something wrong."
"meet up with the other guy in an npc 0.0 system, anchor t2 large bubbles on all the gates with a hauler, undock in combat ships, duke it out. done."
"pretty much the idea is the more rr the less effective the rr becomes... (like adding on 4 photon hardners or 5 mag stabs)the most you should recieve before there is no point to anymore reps should be (about 6) after that there would be no point in rr as it would not add more then maybe 1 hp per cycle...this could be an interesting way to break up sc fleets as they would no longer be impenetrable and would make drake fleets less ftom...what do you guys think?yeah with me?"
"yes i support this idea..."
"and so you break the rr chain of your opponent by using dessies with small rr to max out their rr allowance?"
"hmmm... good point...make it stackable by size... so only 6 medium or 6 large or 6 capital... that way you cant go in with small rr to break the turtle... but then again small rr is pretty limited in range... so it might just be worth having that as an effect (go in close its easy to kill you)"
"please, check out my similar proposal: tactical overview option for solo/small gangs: ship velocity vectors.it's basically the same, but for all ships with overview rules for who wants it. not to steal support from your idea, but who likes this one probably likes also mine. cheers!"
"+1,i did propose at one time a more advanced version which included more controls for actually piloting your ship (still taking the 1hz server tick and all) but that thread died... so +1 to this."
"/support this topic"
"yep at least buff guristas to angel lvl"
"i thought that angel ships are based on jovian designs. makes sense that they should be superior to all other ships of the same class.why do they need a nerf? (any reason besides 'i think they are way too strong')if you don't like how you keep losing frigate pvp to one, why don't you get one yourself? i heard that the drake is the hands down the best battlecrusier you can get. would anyone think think it fair game to give other races bcs a buff so that they can fight on equal ground?"
"the most i would support is a removal of drones."
"to balance the dram you just need to axe the drone bay or reduce the speed down to around 3.6kms (mwd without any other speed mods) it would still be an amazing ship just not so much of the iwin button that it is atm.ps. fix the phantasm it is just junk atm. (i also think the ashimu is junk but corpies of mine dont agree)"
"realid isn't a bad idea actually. not 'real' id, but consistent id across accounts. some kind of identifying upc for all accounts to identify them as yours, that carries over to the forum threads like this. it would still be dependent on upfront honesty when accounts are created/id'd, but it would automatically match across all alt's on one account at the very least."
"i used to think twice all the time, as i don't really have any alt's. ..or, generally not for long, as i'm simply playing with the character creator, or making a funny alt for a single completely irrelevent post for a laugh. not sure if anybody has actually got it when i've done that, but i don't suppose it matters either, and it really doesn't.now i get that little spark of \"oh no, i can't believe i'm doing this,\" and post anyway fully willing to accept the consequences if they ever come. fact is, quite possibly they have already, but eve is such that you wouldn't really know if they did as it wouldn't actually appear an different. unless of course, someone actually raged on you about some silly forum post or comment before podding you for the 4th time.that's actually why i don't care, and blithely insult people or call them out on these forums; because i know it really won't change anything. they'd do it anyway, and repeatedly if they could. so in game consequences are not really of any concern to me. out of game.. well that's bad and a possibility given the assortment of unusual individuals on the internet. wouldn't recommend it though. besides, they usually crassly insult me long before i actually take offense to them. sometimes days, depending on how long it takes me to read their post. i try not to really offend people anyway, though i understand it's not really possible to avoid at times. i also don't run scams or troll, or flame others; even going so far as to try and take some though with most of what people say. sometimes i don't bother and don't post. futanari.. sex in stations.. etc.. why bother? most of it disgusts me, and i couldn't possibly join in or have anything nice or unbiased to say. i'll admit, for all that i could really only get through half a page of the most recent, not everybody is that bad, and some just jokingly go about it. that's fine; it's the others that make me sick.anyway.. have fun."
"guys i got scammed by ~~thesameguy with three of his toons, nerf it"
"i think it's fine to only let one character per account post, especially when it comes to forum voting. i have two characters. even though my newer character is on my second account, i still think of her as an alt. :p sapph"
"not supported. in the forum is already too less moderation and too much flaming and insulting to find.i.e. just see the arguments pvp vs pve or vice versa. x demands more easy killings by high sec nerfs, y demands more rights to carebears like higher standing loss for ganker. needing to post with the real name would mean to transfer the flaming and harassment into the game.i agree that the forum needs alot more active tending to. but this can be done only by more moderation in the forums. starting with enforcing netiquette by moderators and for example banning forum trolls whole account from the game itself (like for 3 days). same goes for insults and flaming."
"there is a thing called a warp disruptor!!!if you are playing can flipping games at a station--- ffs! show some intelligence and put the can out of docking range!"
"i dont think you understand what the op is saying. they aint playing can flipping. they are shooting people at station, or when they undock. i think this sounds like jita 4-4 scenario many ppl undocking, war target gets hit. ninja looters stay at station ninja the loot dock up instantly.i have to agree though, you have agression you should have a docking timer."
"and what exactly keeps you from having a friend sit by the station with an indy picking up the loot immediately after you pop your prey? (and before a ninja looter does?)sorry i don't really see a loop hole here. i just hear op is complaining about the current mechanics of the system makes it harder for him to claim loot if he ambushes prey when they exit the station. --ambush-- you know, something ninjas do to their victims. so one form of ninja-ing is okay but another isn't. maybe the victims of station camping should petition windows or scanners to be put into the station so that they can look outside before choosing to undock to make sure unfriendies aren't camping.seriously though, you can't change this whole aggression docking mechanic just because this one lone case inconveniences you. if you did, then that would gimp 'legitamate' looting.and if you want to make looting a non-dockable aggro, then what about corporate theft -- when a corp spy empties out your corp wallet? see, its a slippery slope.if the looter irritates you so much declare war on them. then ambush him when he comes out of the station to loot. :)"
"step 1: locate target while cloaked.step 2: align to target and close to 40-35 km at full speed.step 3: uncloak and fire bomb launcher.step 4: gtfo and cloak.step 5: ????step 6: profit!!!!oneoneone1111!!!!ps: note i didn't \"say target the ship\"...ship is unaware of your presence until its too late.ps2: your doing it wrong.ps3: you do know the bomb has a 15km blast radius right?"
"cant wait for the videos then."
"i hope you can since they will never ever be released! (nda). if the content of the summit could be released i wouldn't have had to do up all those words writing minutes :)that's why the minutes have to be scrubbed by ccp to make sure nothing nda gets through."
"no. this basically will basically make it so people keep killing each other until the original owner returns. way to much in the way of the carebear here."
"yes the idea is for people to engage each other. if your going to suidcide someone it needs to actually be well planned with a exit strat. the carebear is given a reasonable window of oppurtunity to get his stuff back and the attcker(s) actually have to commit some assets and skill to do a successfull gank.as it is now the gankers take little to no risk. they can sit on a gate all day waiting without taking any risk. they risk sec status and a minimal amount of isk."
"so now we wait for full minutes, any exact eta?"
"nope. every csm took a few topics and are writing up minutes as their spare time permits. i'd say we're nearing the end of the \"write minutes\" portion and will be moving fully into the \"ccp checks for nda\" portion shortly."
"taking more than a week to put together five paragraphs on each of three three hour sessions isn't very impressive and falls way below our expectations. :-("
"i just log on sisi and tried incarna. the cq looked good, but it still have lots of issues:terrible camera adjustmenttons of laggg, you should focused on optimization!inflexible character movementwasd dont work fine, you will stuck in corners easilyuse mouse to move just make things worse, you will even lose camera control so plz give us an option to disable cq, its just a waste of computer resources for me now.to be honest, if dust514 just act like cq, no doubt it will be an epic fail."
"which of these best describes your reason:a) because more people took part in the voting than in previous years b) because i don't like who wonc) most people are realising that csm won't give them a free tengud) because everyone i speak to hates these guys that won by majority of eve player votes"
"supported ~"
"should have been made years ago"
"i'm not sure about this one to be honest. if there is a problem with suicide ganking, i don't think its with insurance. -insurance for suicide gankers is unrealistic. insurance for 95% of other payout situations is also unrealistic. -a cut in suicide insurance wouldn't really affect thrasher suicide gangs which cost 600k a pop. in those cases the main costs are both getting the pilots into position for the gank, and either grinding back the security standings or training up a new throwaway suicide alt.i'd rather this get looked at from a ship design point of view.-do hulks and sub-freighter sized haulers need more durability relative to their cost? someone else said \"prevention involves not making yourself an appealing target\". is this even possible if you're flying a hulk? its a ship that costs 180 million+ and can only be insured for a fraction of this amount, it'd be almost pointless not to put t2 fittings on it, and its nearly impossible to get it above 22k effective health.-do thrashers and <whatever battleships get used for suicide ganks> have too much alpha damage for their cost?-are there too few defences available to the suicide gankee? again for a hulk pilot, is he supposed to warp out every time he sees someone appear in local in crowded highsec?-are there insufficient penalties or risks for the gankers? even if they miscalculate and fail to pop their target, their looter will be able to strip all the wrecks long before the target can do so. and any kill rights the target gets are probably worthless if they're not tradeable. even if they were tradeable, what if a throwaway alt was used? i suppose the removal of insurance payout would help here."
"with regards to making nullsec more independent of jita, has anyone thought of revamping or augmenting alchemy? as i understand it alchemy currently allows you to create r64 goo out of r32/r16 goo at a lower efficiency than moonmining. with the last moongoo rebalance i doubt anyone does it though. how about making it possible to synthesize r32 and r16 (and r64) reaction products out of a combination of minerals, ice products, pi, gasses, r8 and maybe r16 goo? this, along with a tech rebalance, should both break up the goo cartels and allow the various other nullsec alliances to at create limited amounts of goo they can't moonmine for corp/alliance use. corp alchemy operations should allow t2 manufacturing in nullsec to become more common while also creating nullsec markets (and sources of player income) for various things that are currently mostly ignored or exported. of course, this would also cause more towers to be anchored and available for shooting. which of course would create a market for replacement towers. . . comments are welcome."
"no"
"cosmetic only."
"no.give us the possibility to create clothes, ship skins etc. (maybe under approbation of ccp) that would enhance creativity and role playing immensely."
"i like the custom ship skins idea, but if people can change it at will, without any real world cost, it will be abused."
"i qoute ccp shadow from the ps3 blog on dust514:\"hi vorlord. dust 514 wont have a monthly subscription like a number of mmos. dust 514 will have virtual goods sales though, that allow you to buy various types of gear used in combat.\"\"hey shoryukenll,youve asked a few things i cant delve too deeply into, but what i can comment on is what you said about virtual items and real money. dust 514 will support purchases made through both in-game earned currency and real money currency.\"hmmmmm........ dust514 is supposed to be tied into our eve universe so now $$$$ for game changing items is one step closer......"
"no!"
"no!i will never support microtransactions in a submission based game!"
"nerf ehp so 100 sieged dreads can one shot alpha kill a super carrier."
"ccp plan to nerf them anyway, so why not?"
"question: i can see how these nerfs would be useful and they make sense...but......you're also trying to bring dreads back from being obsolete. explain how these nerfs help out dreads? the only change i see that helps some is the reduction in fb dps, meaning a dread might compete. if these changes aren't going to improve dreads any, then we need to also be looking at ways to buff/change dreads such that they aren't obsolete anymore. the main problem i see with supers is their only counter is more supers...which is highly unusual in any game. i like the ideas for reduction of drone capacity/ehp so that supers could be made 'toothless' with a well-built enemy fleet of subcaps."
"i do not support this nerf at all......i am a capital and supercarrier pilot. as many other pilots here have stated, supercapitals cost a huge amount of isks, billions not forgetting that the fit often costs even more than the ship itself. as was said by ccp at fanfest 2011 supercarriers are meant to be super, and the financial investment and time that many players have dedicated in-game in order to own and fly a supercarrier must be protected by giving us the ability to indeed field those powerful ships, and to be able to leave the field as well. the vast majority of those who want this nerf are pilots who just hate supers simply because they either cannot afford them or they just ruin their killing game. supers are destroyed every day in eve, they can still be obliterated, why should a simple fleet of tiny ships that cost very small sums of isks be able to take down a ship worth billions!!!!!i am totally against it!!!!"
"pretty confident this is a troll but o well.lets imagine a ship that costs 1trillian.it is indestructible.can insta pop anything.has 0 signature radius.and goes 30kms with perfect agility.but its fine cos it costs 1 trillion so why should anything be able to kill it yer?to create balance cost effectiveness should always go down as price increases otherwise you just have the standard tier issues where everything beneath the top tier is useless.imo to balance super caps you need a combination of a lot of the ideas already posted in this thread.i would say5 drone limit but +3 per dcu (make dcu passive).separate drone bay for fighters/fbs and regular drones.slaves no longer work in combination with supercapsthis makes them pick between dps and survivability mods.means they can't release endless swarms of drones.slightly reduces the obscene ehp.balances the armour supers more with the shield supers"
"optional is best for role play. her is why. we pilots are operating our ships from an egg of ectoplasm and are hooked up to our ships through a neural socket. many of our station dockings are merely to unload cargo or to escape danger for short periods of time. in role play, you certainly would not be exiting your egg for such reasons. i think the captains quarters could enhance role play but only if done realistically from the perspective of the capsuleer pilot. captains quarters is a sort of end of day/beginning of day thing, so to speak. it should be optional and in control of the pilot."
"having it optional is fine. but it can't be optional 'just because of preference' in gui. there should be things that you can do in cq that you cannot do in the pod hanger. interact with station people in a pub, take part in station poker games, buy vanity items for your clone. these you need to decant for.you can choose to stay in your pod if you are just waiting out a aggro timer. for instance."
"it's more like we're attempting to work out the issues name changes would cause and thus provide a solid, coherent, plausible proposal. the fee is there to make name changing inefficient and less abused (since there are already many nefarious avenues that are used more efficiently even now) although all points are certainly debatable"
"i'll give it a try, although i welcome you to provide me with more specifics, like who are you looking for? *if it's a target that can legally kill you, it would be more advisable to scroll through looking for reds like you'd do anyway*if it is a suicide ganker, it's to late*if its local spam, throw-away-alts are the way they go anyway. that's why there is a fee: to make it inefficient to do so...and i guess i haven't been clear, i'm assuming (proposing) standings will transfer (since this is about name changes)i was just using your words. why cut out the 60k now?good point on the search function, if i led this thread i'd add that to the opening post. but as for the rest, it's the same old stuff:*ganking isn't worth it if you consider the fee, there are a more efficient ways to do so currently in game*if your corp recruiter cant be bothered to check their history, they deserve it. with low standards like that even a throw-away-alt would get by*if you don't care enough about your losses to hunt them down, i can't motivate you either...but then again, you haven't responded to most of my arguements (the a.k.a. thread) while i've been nothing but compliant, so i'll give you some of my 'latin': u mad bro?"
"first off, let me thank you for your intelligent and thought out answers. it's obvious you are someone who actually thinks something thru before posting it, and that is commendable.second, i'm not a bro, nor am i mad. it's just that time of the month.and i have not left any of your points unanswered that i am aware of. if i haven't responded to point x, its either because somebody already did and i agreed with her point, or i agreed with your point to begin with. please enlighten me of any such holes that i have allegedly left.who would i be looking for? corp theives. corp recruiters will see histories, but exactly where in the history would it show that someone stole from what? a recruiter would have to look up their past names and then do what exactly? i suppose a ganker would have his killboards shown. but a loot or corp thief won't show. so you need some sort of global record keeping of past criminal names. (and allow people to register complaints on people who have wronged them.... etc etc... i'm already reeling in the amount of work this change will require to be done right.what about the person who ganked you when you were a noob? now you want to deliver payback. 1 year later. how would you find him? would ccp have to buff out the character search query server, and start adding new hardware?"
"at the end of the day, i would love to have this feature as well. heck i spelled my name wrong. but i am living with it.however, one of the fundamental tantamount basis in eve is that your choices have consequences, and that you can exact revenge on those who wronged you. (as seen in countless marketing trailers) no change in the game can ever threaten that god given basic right of any player in the game. even if it is still possible to track people's histories, if the change makes it *harder* (read, more work) to find and exact your god given right of revenge on them, then i, many on these threads, and ccp will say no.especially as those who really really want to change their name is in the great minority."
"i didn't ignore your side of the debate. and i had no emotional outburst(s). my statements still stands on firm legs. also, no. as [eve continues to be assaulted with moronic childrens' attitudes brought up by parents who award trophies for last place] my perceptions will remain the same because my perceptions are based on something different than yours: logic.eabodflummox"
"haven't seen any good arguments against this other than \"neutral rr is creative mechanics we're so clever\" and\"logistics pilots spent time and effort learning to be neutral reppers, its not fair to nerf them\". so i think its a good change."
"yeah i've no idea why there's no drone implants. would be so nice to have."
"okay, that sounds reasonable. but can anyone point to some hard (as in qen) numbers on the percentage of gallente ships fitting projectiles instead of rails?)as i said, i am all for it, so long as play balance is not disturbed. it is very dangerous to think that you can buff 1 weapon system without affecting many other things. buff it too much, and maybe minmatars will start using hybrids instead of projectiles.which is why i'm all for making them have a unique *capability*, not a buff. a unique feature that should complement drones.purely as as example; if you give them excellent tracking at long range (like lasers) then maybe make them do less damage, but also take less cap than lasers but faster cycletime.remember, tactical balance is such a volatile thing. all it takes is the ability for say, a common ship like the megathron to be able to field 1 more hybrid due to tweaked cap use or increase their dps a bit due to increased dps for everyone to stop complaining that the hybrid system in its entirety is gimped. (i'm citing completely hypothetical situations, i have never flown a gallente ship)i defer to the experts."
"as the good doctor pointed out in his devblog, i don't think they have that kind of granularity. what they do see is tens of thousands of railgun modules being produced... but that isn't because anyone is using them. it's because they're being used for mineral compression to move resources mined in hisec out to null. perhaps everyone was just looking at manufacturing and industry stats and thinking everything was fine?other than highlighting how broken mining and industry in nullsec must be in order to make exporting common ores preferential to actually mining them in situ, it also seriously skews many other figures.what is interesting, is that there is no gallente vessel in the top10 this quarter, a trend that will be continuing until they are re-designed from the ground up. in fact the only gallente vessel that outstrips other races by a significant margin appears to be the nyx, mostly for aesthetic reasons - certainly not functional ones since almost every alliance will tell you to fly an aeon instead."
"supported."
"i would love to hear what the csm has to say about the mt issue especially considering the quotes and links i will provide below.csm--- look at all the threads regarding mt. look at the 52 page threadnaught in response to the dev blog on mt. look at the thread in this forum where almost 80% of the responders don't want mt at all. the eve community needs you to be our voice. i qoute ccp shadow from the ps3 blog on dust514:\"hi vorlord. dust 514 wont have a monthly subscription like a number of mmos. dust 514 will have virtual goods sales though, that allow you to buy various types of gear used in combat.\"\"hey shoryukenll,youve asked a few things i cant delve too deeply into, but what i can comment on is what you said about virtual items and real money. dust 514 will support purchases made through both in-game earned currency and real money currency.\"hmmmmm........ dust514 is supposed to be tied into our eve universe so now $$$$ for game changing items is one step closer......"
"plex."
"i agree.. been a problem since they started it. however, plex as it stands doesn't allow you to buy game altering items the day you start playing. some will say that selling plex lets you buy high sp characters, mother ships, titans and fancy deadspace gear but even if you do that in this game it takes more then a few $$$ to buy an understanding of how they are truely used.allowing $$$ to out right buy an advantage in eve has been something that ccp has stated they don't want for our game (hence keeping mt limited to vanity items). the tie in with dust 514 and the ability to unwrap the game, throw it in your ps3, get your visa out, buy upgraded items and use those upgraded items to effect 0.0 sov mechanics is exactly what is going to happen. the opposite of what ccp has told us. so, we now have two messages from ccp that are the polar opposites of each other. what is going to happen? only time will tell. until then the only thing i can do is share my concerns."
"a little premature to start complaining about dust as we have zero information as to how it will integrate with eve.they will never be able to hold space (obviously) so the space ship part is probably still going to be the deciding factor.i don't see mercs can be anything more than a positive modifier to regular invasions as ccp will have to insulate eve to some degree as the console fps is the mayfly of the gaming industry."
"not complaining about dust tbh. it's the idea that ccp will allow advatages to be purchased with $$$ and that it will cross over into eve.\" weve introduced mechanics allowing people to manufacture goods on the planets, but planets will play a more pivotal role in sovereignty mechanics further down the line.\"----- this is the statement that ccp made that concerns me the most. every player in 0.0 needs to really start thinking about what this could mean.....allowing rl $$$ to purchase an advantage in dust will cross into our sov mechanics at some point. how big will the impact be? i don't even think ccp knows yet how they are going to change sov mechanics.........the one question that i am afraid to hear the answer to is:how long before ccp allows more then vanity item mt in eve?"
"honestly, this seems like an attempt to balance the eve players giving their dust character a patty-cake mission for a gazillion isk prize so they can instantly deck out their dust character. that had been my biggest concern when i first heard about dust. we can only wait to see the mechanics, because we're really working only on conjecture right now."
"80% of the responders in that threadnaught make up about 0.02% of all eve residents, don't pretend that it's the majority of capsuleers.besides, i'm afraid this is happening no matter what, so you can either go down with the threadnaught or accept it and move on."
"fyi it wasn't my premise. i heard somebody else said it. and just because your 1 case of lag for you that happened, doesn't go to prove anything. in fact, the only thing it proves is that maybe lag is a problem, so i don't see why you were saying that the lag shouldn't exist because its done on a different server. anyway let's say that even if the griefing tool is only 50% of the reason, and the other 50% is lag. um... then why do you think that it should be brought back? just for rping reasons? personally, and its maybe just me, but i think that the priorities for a game mechanic should be:1) no lag2) no griefer intel3) role playing"
"lets noti dont think it should be \"brought back\"i think it should never have been taken away"
"i never saw a reason for this info to be public, at best it should be optional to display standings like the display of medals and certificates are."
"while i can see the use of removing it so other players can't track where you've been hanging out a lot...i would like to know which faction is on what standing with which other faction in eve. like thef act the minmatar like the thukkers, but hate the angels and the amarr empire.sure, i know most of it by heart, but for a newbie it's very usefull information, not to mention to the vet who does missions and wants to keep his standing with certain factions intact.for instance, you get offered a mission against the thukkers, you're a noob, and you run missions for minmatar and say, caldari. the caldari agent offers you an anti-thukker mission, the noob things.. hey it's not empire faciton, kill.. only to find out that messing with the thukkers messes with his minmatar standing too.being able to see this among npc corps and factions who's who is kinda important."
"see, there you go, not only does my idea let you choose the appearance of your ship despite your subsystem chice, it keeps your opponent from know what systems you're using."
"no. if that is what you want then you should just remove all appearance changes in t3 ships so there is no possibility in knowing what they are fitting, but that is probably the whole reason ccp made it that way in the first place. (you think they did it just to be 'ccol'?)and no, 1 alt supporting does not a good proposal make."
"do you fly t3?"
"eperor, please can you run your posts through a spell checker? i think you do have a lot of good things to say, but i am finding too difficult to understand you.at all."
"this.not a lot of resources, so null is still the best place, but a small amount to prevent complete resource blocks."
"that may work. but let's see some stats on the distributions. is this magic gold only found in a certain region of space?"
"tech needs a correction, imo needs it badly and there are a couple of ways this can be done. first and foremost the advanced materials (t2 component) contents would have to be changed (again) to remove the dependence on tech. the second way to balance it might be to rethink alchemy, allowing alchemy of r32 reaction products (and perhaps even r16) in addition to those involving r64 goo. allowing alchemy of those materials would also go a good way towards permanently breaking moon goo cartels while probably stimulating moon mining and lowsec pos-keeping in general as well while creating new targets to go after. to help keep pos keepers sane a reduction in cpu and grid use of reactors and related item might be a good thing as well.comments are welcome."
"bumping this one back to the top, as there is another 'fix wardec' thread which is that wardeking should cost more.i think that this proposal mixed with that one, may be viable.make it cost more for subsequent non-mutual wardek's, the lower the avg standing of the members of the corp are.so if the avg of the members of the corp is a -5 secstatus, then, it costs them a lot more to wardek than a positive standing corp.what this does:1) encourages more legitamate wars, and makes it harder for griefer corps to use wardeking to just prey on innocents without secstatus penalty.2) griefers will be forced to grind standings back up after a cycle of mindless killing, allowing the carebear industry to recover.this mechanic will force a break in the contiuous sequence of wardeking. it will encourage even pvpers to be more positive in standing over all, as it costs their corp more, which will make corp ceos encourage members to have not too low standings so that they can continue their pvping activities.add an exponential decay to the corp avg standing. don't publicize the formula. this will keep ceos from dropping low sec members before a war just to reduce their costs, only to add them back again after it is paid."
"make it cost more! you serious? it already costs a sily amount, if you dec 4 alliances your looking at a huge weekly bill..this is not low sec, you cant putting sec status hits on war deccers lol, whats the point, they pay crap loads of isk for the dec, they could actually lose, there is nothing stopping the other side shooting back you know.and then no one will ever do war decs, it will just kill it completely.yes i think 2 mill for a corp to dec a corp is cheap and perhaps that should be the same as 50 mill alliance dec.but leave the alliance bills alone, its can cost billions for just one week! yes its only one week for god sake lol.seriously this has got to be a whine thread cos someone decced you...fight back...however there could be some options rather than sec hit, thats for pirates!1. i believe high should be safe. so, war decs should only be performed in low sec. this way low sec gets busier and ppl will have to look for targets. however, then jump frieghters should then be like other caps low sec only - you then have to move your stuff from low to high in a freighter. so it still gives and element of risk and something the war deccers can hit as well. so it benefits both sides to some extent."
"an element of danger? by protecting highsec residents? coolbtw. ccp nerfed 90% of 0.0 space because there's too much isk in the system. stuff should be blown up more often."
"no"
"wardecs aren't perfect, but this isn't the way to fix them."
"this. more of this."
"blowing stuff up doesn't get rid of isk. in fact, it increases inflation."
"supported. raising the cost of war dec's is a pointless endeavor as where this idea would be a step towards making war dec's what they should have been from the beginning, a means by which to settle grievances between corps and alliances in high sec, not a free high sec grief button.now this solution wouldn't curve ward dec's altogether but it would make the offending corp or alliance have to work harder by making them do things to keep their sec status positive.it's not too much and not too little.make it so."
"don't much care, as long as the sec hit is small (significantly smaller than for lowsec gcc actions) and it doesn't occur in lowsec."
"i'm pretty sure this would be a high sec war action only hit. if not, that's the only kind i support. low sec guys don't really need to dec in order to grief though, so little change either way.of course, they could always make it so that the declaring corp or alliance incurs a one time sec penalty hit for all members with every dec they make. hell, that would be even better."
"why should there be a penalty for attacking a war target? explain to me how attacking someone that you are at war with is a criminal act."
"i think he is saying that habitual war deccers should be punished. from a rp perspective it makes sence. im sure the amarrians would want to know why the same corp has been in 10 non mutual war decs in their empire space in the last week alone and concord is just turning a blind eye. if i'm the amarrians, gallente, caldari or minmatar, why would i fund you if you're not doing your job?i think this idea could work but it needs some fleshing out. like maybe if your corp declares 1 non mutual war, there is no penalty. the more non mutual wars you have, the more scrutiny is placed on your corp until you reach a threshold where concord and the space owning empire would say, wtf is going on here and start taking away sec status from your corp or not take sec status away but they would say \"you can still declare your wars, but its gonna cost you more cause we're getting heat from the gallente over this.\"just some ideas."
"one hi sec war by itself doesn't mean much. but i think the op is referring to corps that make a habit of wardeccing indy corps in hi sec (hint: self-proclaimed hi sec pirates).a change like this would make hi-sec pirates kick, scream, and squeal like pigs. see, they want to be called pirates, but without the consequences that come with the title."
"most people have bad taste anyway, so i wouldn't worry about it. i'm still waiting for the day that i get to walk around the streets naked, because i can't find anything i'm willing to wear in the clothing stores. i'm not kidding. i'm already limited to levi's, stock t-shirts, dress socks, and work jackets...oh yeah, and lets not forget, i already have to buy any blue jeans 2 waist sizes up to avoid losing circulation because they gender-normed them to look attractive on women and removed half the material."
"progressive?caldari = corpate/military dictatorship (hail great caldari state o7)amarr = repressive religous empireminmatar = tribal based society with ancient traditionswhere do you see progressive? none cares bout gallente anyway."
"i have to echo most people here... the op must have confused eve with star trek.gallente pleasure slaves are the top vice of caldari ceos.amarrians keep matari children sex slaves.(if you have bothered to read any of the eve novels)"
"wtf is this ****?if you not trolling then you should get medical assistance, go to a psychiatrist."
"gallente are a bunch of homeless junkies hypocrites deviants masochists and the most corrupted ethnics in eve. this is why you start gallente and you finish to join the other camps. not really the good or only reason, the good one being when you start using blasters."
"that cant be true. look at them now. there are no gender specific clothes."
"its a bit early to complain about sexism in the clothing selection, when its still really limited in general. if there isn't a women's version of something the men can wear, they've probably just not got around to coding it for the different bodyshape yet."
"i know in my primary characters allaince we often see characters moving from one corp to another in order to sepcialize the purpose of the member corps within the alliance. this is especially the case when new recruits transfer from our training corp, into the corp that specializes in their are of interest (pvp, industry, logistics....)i think it might be useful for there to be a function that allows corp ceos and the alliance ceo (or designated personnel manager) to allow an immediate transfer between member corps that are members of the same alliance....with out the member having to go through the 24hr wait period and having to reapply.i kind of envision the process going like this....1) member applies for transfer from corp a to corp b (both being members of alliance z).2) notifcation is sent to ceo of corps a & b for approval3) once ceos of corps a & b have accepted, the member is transfered and ceo of alliance z is notified of the trasnfer. thoughts? suggestions? would any one else find this of use?"
"fool. combat mission bots have bee in the game longer than i have. they are also quite fun to toy with (after petition of course)."
"not supported.sounds like another \"handout\" proposal. what's wrong with botters? if they want to spend hard $$$ for isk then let them. this proposal will only serve to make them buy plex instead, and then you won't even have any easy prey for pvpers anymore.you don't get mad at the cows and the sheep for eating too much at the farm, and burning all the grass and let them starve.you should cull them instead and have steak dinner once in a while.think capitalism. not dictatorship communism."
"not supported, you would be better off removing local which is a bots intelligence tool allowing them to be caught and destroyed at much higher rates than is possible now."
"by emoving locla that efects not onkly bots but usual players to."
"i would be very surprised if this hasn't been brought forth as an idea before though going back several pages i found no topic which related specifically to this, my eve-search link to look at the forums wasn't working (buggy pos...), and mittani's \"pos misery\" topic seemed more about small ui fixes. (or people are posting pos related issues when they should be talking about outposts...idk nvm.)now i remember in some topic i was reading through a long time ago, someone proposed allowing outposts to be destroyed but a response from ccp was that they had tried to test it but it actually caused a lot of problems. well if you can't destroy an outpost, why not just unanchor it and go on from there?the idea is that once you have sufficient sovereignty in a system (the same required to build an outpost to begin with) the owner may unanchor the outpost and essentially deconstruct it. from this point they may pack everything up and move it to another orbit inside the system or to another system all together, or they could take the components to the next nearest station and reprocess them. if you can build and anchor them, logically, why shouldn't you be able to unanchor and recycle them? maybe providence will get a little cleared up now xdif i truly was blind in my topic search i apologize for my nubness."
"a variant of this his has been proposed before:linkageabandoned poses are a problem all over eve and it does need to be sorted out."
"no."
"do you have reasoning?edit: and thanks bo!"
"as a new comer to eve i've noticed that if you're a newbie and you're in an industrial corporation you tend to get war dec'ed a lot. nearly constantly.i'm a little fuzzy on the game mechanics, but it seems like the war dec system is too open ended, and far too cheap.as i understand it you basically bride concord for the right to wage war on another corporation. seems like the cost of a war is incredibly cheap. a few million to wage what can in some cases be an intergalactic conflict? a whole 100million to wage an alliance war?in real life on -one- planet the cost of a war goes into the billions of dollars and does so with out exception. how on earth and mere companies of 1 to several hundred people manage to wage a war for so little across so many systems. just seems grossly out of alignment with the rest of the games reality.what i would recommend is this.if we're going to use such childishly small number bribe what are in fact the intergalactic police force .. you're opponent should have the right to counter bid the war dec. i also think we should raise the minimum bid from a few million isk to 200mil isk for a single corp war, and to 500mil to dec a corp in an alliance, and 1billion isk to wage war from alliance to alliance.mutual war declarations receive no reduced expense. ask anyone who works in politics or the military - the cost of war is a constant one.i also think to make the cumulative impact of war more realistic, the cost to renew the declarations should go up by 20% each time they are renewed. so if it cost you 200 mil for a week long dec it would be 240mil the next week. for a third week it would be 288mil and so on.i also think there should be a mandatory period of 30 days diplomatic immunity so people can manage to recover from wars. that means for 30 days you can't be declared upon. in option should be included for corps that want to be at war to decline the diplomatic immunity.in my mind what that does is force people who want to pvp to play against other corps that like to pvp. it would greatly discourage high-sec griefer corps from bullying newer players around trade hubs and picking on mining barges before the industrial player has had a chance to learn pvp skills like armor and shield tanking. the fact is most of us pay for this game with real life money, and no one will pay money in real life to get bullied in-game, it's a waste of time and money. so in order to ensure younger players aren't basically getting hosed at their own real life expense, i think these measures are appropriate.if you're dec'ed and you can bribe your way out of it that's your cheapest option. if you're dec'ed and can't bride your way out, the juice steadily becomes worth less and less squeeze which seems appropriate. if you have 20mil skill points per player and 20 guys in your corp vs 5mill skill points per player in a 20 man corp you're going to win and there isn't anything that can be done about it. which means if you want to be a bully, you're gonna have to pay for the privilege of being an online newbie poacher.we newbie's have to learn how to handle wars, no argument there, but i think step by step, month at a time would be a fair compromise.so, that's my idea, what do you all think?"
"in real life, the cost of a super capital would be such that it would bankrupt entire spacefaring nations to build too many of them, yet in eve, alliances of 5000 build hundreds and sacrifice them with little concern. this is part of the reason everyone thinks supercap's are unbalanced, (or pretty much all of it actually), when in fact it's just the alliances wealth that is unbalanced.so for war dec's.. yeah pretty much the same thing as far as perspective goes, but not in relation to cost, just ease of access. war costs plenty when/if you start losing ships, but shouldn't be extremely expensive to initiate. it's just paperwork afterall, and corporations in eve are pretty much singular entities, mostly seperate from the spacefaring nations and outside their rules. still.. too easy."
"first off, i'd like to say i am sympathetic. but i cannot support this unless i see some statistics on the frequency of wardecs on new corps and their repeat rate. just saying that something is too cheap must be backed up by some evidence that it is so. i am a believer of free markets, so maybe the increasing scale of wardecs should be based on the standing of the corp with that of concord (in aggregate). criminals should find it harder to declare war."
"not supported. wars in eve should be cheap."
"@op: the 'problem' is not wardecs, but simply eve being one huge ocean, with very big fish in it, and very small ones. upping the price of a wardec is never going to help the little guy (especially not if he wants the option to put in a counterbribe to co"
"no. you just don't get it, do you? this is eve online, survival of the fittest mmo, if you can't or don't want to defend your corportation assets against wardecs, then you shouldn't have a corporation in the first place.go to a npc corp and try again when you are ready. simple as that."
"i'm offering support in terms of the cost of war. it is too cheap. i think your suggestions are too much, but i don't think the cost of a war should be so low that a new character could afford it in a week. the cost of a corp to corp war is cheaper than the cheapest ship you might fly in that war. something is wrong about that...my biggest gripe with high sec war is station games. fix this cpp! you want to talk about carebears? carebears pick on people who can't fight back and use tactics that keep them invulnerable. they rely on an army of neutral alts to tell them everything that is going on and play station games when they can't win."
"look, this type of whine has been visited countless times. ccp needs to develop a statement in a newbie tutorial that cleary states: \"this is eve... space is cold and unrelenting, and so are it's inhabitants. there's no such thing as being completely safe. in this free environment of a sandbox, we encourage all styles of interaction, from friendly to the down right beating of a baby to get it's candy. hello kitty online, this is not. be prepared for struggle and torment. learn to survive it, even adapt to it, and glory and riches could be yours! time to put your game face on!\"yeah, eve is a virtual rl story in space, expect to get tested. keep in mind most of these older players had to deal with it, now it's you turn, adapt or die. btw, if you don't like station games, don't play them... use your head and you can either trap them or escape them, depending on which side you're on."
"i can concur with what you're saying. wardecs are broken, but so are most mechanics for corporations (role management, pos operations, etc). ccp really needs to take a look at this and fix it.the wardec thing is what's keeping as many players as there are in npc corps. while i am by no means against wardecs, i do think they need to be more balanced. the trouble is in finding a good balance for the revision, as there will be griping either way.supported, but don't get your hopes up."
"first let me thank you all for your input. it is varied as i knew it would be.for those of you who gave support, limited as it is, i thank you.this is in fact my first computer game ever. first mmo or whatever it is you call them. what i'm learning about this game is that it is largely intended to be a pvp game. which means the road to success means about a solid year of real life playing in npc corps until your sp is high enough to go toe to toe with the big dogs. it also means you're going to experience ridiculous amounts of resistance in establishing a corporation of your own because the bleak outlook in eve as painted by my baby-brow-beating-candy-taking contemporary is wonderfully against you at every turn. also the \"tutorials\" are no where near adequate in painting the big picture of eve to the new coming player within 2 weeks of trial time. i can see now that some of my suggestions are a bit over the top. obviously the frustration of constant war declarations was present when i wrote it. at any rate, i can't help but feel some of this is slightly in favor of the more predatorial sort of player. at the same time, i'm a former us marine and i remember being vividly disgusted with the naive notions of kids fresh out of boot camp. so while i don't think i'll be quite so brazen as to take candy from babies, i do see the need for players to mature and recognize the reality of the game.i'll count this among my lessons learned. but i may also simply stop playing, for the amount of time and effort i spend on this game i could probably become a fairly decent bowler... who knows.anyhow, thank you for your responses. fly safe."
"really, the overview is just returning 'hits' in space like blips on a radar, but there is no reason it couldn't be programmed to show bookmarks as well. for player sake, i mean setting the overview to show a specific type of bookmark, for which we would have to have two types: overview ticked off, and overview not ticked off. some people have a horrendous amount of bookmarks; i can't see it being fun to sort through that. even in your right-click interface, that would be cumbersome. but yeah, optional and placeable, it wouldn't be a bad idea."
"i don't think the resolution is the same. overview items are on the grid. bookmarks aren't. you cannot be x meters away from a bookmark.edit: if you don't know what 'on the grid' means, i suggest doing some googling. but briefly, it means in the shared space where objects will be seen to everyone in the same grid. bookmarks can't be in the overview because they are not objects that everyone can see. they are off grid. indeed, they are just coordinate tuples in a notepad. of course, you could put them in the overview, but as that would be a bit of a hack, as they should be only visible to you on your overview, and your client would have to do some number crunching to figure out distances. but then we are back to the resolution problem. bookmarks do not represent an exact (down to meters) point in space. for example, if you warp to 0 on a planet and then somebody else does the same, you will note that you do not crash into each other."
"you can be x meters away from a bookmark. if you bookmark a wreck after a mission, you can warp to it. if you fly away from the wreck, and then go back to your bookmark, you can approach it. it is a coordinate in 3d space.i want this, but yes it must be optional to show them, a checkbox under bookmarks in places would be good, even better would be if we could turn this on for a whole folder. then we could place our overview bookmarks in one folder, and our others in a different one."
"or the ability to bm spots with a shortcut"
"\"does not work\"? exactly how did you come about this conclusion?why don't you let the traders make the judgement call on that. (you must not be one if you think it does not work)edit: ps, it works (i'm a trader)"
"confirming that it works beatifully and is a must have skill for any trader."
"the op didn't actually mean anything about an honorable fight. (yeah i know, you, i, and everyone else who can read made the same misunderstanding too.)he just wanted a \"i win\" button so that if he caught a stray ship, then he could kill it without anyone helping the ship. we suspect he is a roaming pvp griefer looking for easier carebear miner kills :)"
"too obvious, try again."
"appreciated that the time you all take to do this comes out of rl and your gaming time. as long as you can get into the csm notes the info you want us to read, i'm happy to wait.mike d"
"we're even closer now than we were 24 hours ago. honest.what is involved in creating summit minutes:1. each session was approx. an hour long. we all took notes, but each session was recorded so we could go back and make sure we got all the details correct. each delegate chose 2+ topics to write about and they either use their notes, the video records, or both to create a document.2. each delegate has written theirs in their own style. some used a conversational running dialogue on what was discussed, others chose a more bullet point oriented style and highlighted details. it's up to each delegates personal preference and style. they're all longer than 5 paragraphs though, most people tried to capture every detail we could sc**** from the meeting.3. completed minutes are submitted to the csm as a whole and ccp so we can format for proper style while ccp looks for nda breaking stuff. that's where we are mostly at now. once everything is cleared we'll release the minutes but until that finishes we're forced to sit here and be a bit vague because even we don't fully know what is nda or not so out of an abundance of caution we're chillin' until the process finishes. sorry we haven't been more out there with information flow but it is definitely moving forward."
"revenge as a negotiable commercial commodity, sounds an excellent idea and would help the profession of bounty hunter become a reality. a typical ganker counter argument, as someone who has myself in the past ganked profitable targets i find it unconvincing and tbh i'd have welcomed the excitement of being a \"marked man\" to add some flavor and risk to hisec life."
"yes, this thread has been seen before.still being able to sell the kill rights like a contract commodity would be interesting.whoever buys it could then hunt down said killer and claim a bounty equal to a percentage of the kill.it would actually mean bounties are worth hunting for."
"adding 25 tabs wont make any real diffrence if you have 26+ members in corp. adding x ammount of tabs is not the solution to the problem. the problem is that you dont have any personal space.one way of doing it would be to have dynamic tabs. you can add hangars basicly... but that would be a ***** to administer, so the \"easy\" solution would be to simply add one tab. a \"personal\" tab that only you and the directors can access. there are a number of public tabs that can be permission controlled (pos fuel, mods and such), but then one tab that is only shown to you. directors can give you access to that personal hangar through permissions. directors can then list members with stuff in the cha and the amount of space they take up. they can then access each individual members hangar throug that interface (if members leave for instance)same with smas. add a \"corp\" tab that can be used by all with permissions, and a \"personal\" tab for you and the directors.a change like this would most likely fix 99% of the security issues you encounter in whs."
"totally concur. two step has been awesome stepping up to the plate with enthusiasm that makes you forget he's an alternate delegate."
"."
"the true answer to suicide ganking can be taken from real life.it's all about the money. that's all.if they are doing it for the money, then let's hit their pocket book.it might be positive now, but after the suicide fine, only the player with deep pockets can continue to do it.how much you ask??well i say it should be based on the security status of the system.in a 0.5 system, it would be only half.in a 1.0 system, that would hurt any pocket book.now to the amount.i'm open to suggestions.formula of the cost of the destroyed ship vs the suicider?can someone start off at, say, 50 million fine for suiciding a ship?"
"you have a valid point. but ccp lives in a sandbox where it never changes. civilizations as advanced the ones in eve never evolve.this would be the case of kevflavik staying like a western town of dodge city, ks. forever.but wait, didn't they grow up too? evolve?as in case with american history, law and order was established and criminals moved west. to the likes of tombstone and tuscon, az.did crime go away completely? no. but the constable/sheriff/marshall could look at you and run you out of town.there's an idea. eve = plenty of crime and no punishment."
"the only way to stop suicide ganking is to stop people from locking up ships in highsec. otherwise all that it will do is raise the floor of value for targets of gankers.that said, who cares? fly a freighter for your spensive things, if not that then an armored bs, if you can't do that, set up a courier contract with redfrog."
"so funny that this topic is mostly supported by nc and goons who loved to throw supercapitals around without a care in the world but are now losing or are going to lose their space. i didn't see any of you complaining when you dropped supers religiously for a week on bs gangs.so on to some common sense:1 super costs the same price as approximately 100 abaddons at 200 mil each. that super would die alone. why shouldn't it take numbers to match in the investment for the supercapital? quit crying because 10 supers costing 180 bil not including the subcap fleet they are usually with forced your fleet to run away. \"so it's perfectly acceptable to say, release a ship that costs 1 trillion isk, can one shot any ship every 60 seconds and has 5 billion ehp, so it needs 1000 supers to kill it or 50.000 sub caps to kill it?\"let's do some quick math real quick. 1000x 18 bil hmm k hang on i got dis (carry the 4 here) ah yes **** 18 trillion isk super capital fleet. learn math 1 trillion isk in 18 bil supercapitals is 55. well under what has been seen by many fleets. or 20 titans at 50 bil whereas you are giving it the equivalent of 138 titans in ehp. so yes if someone got 18 trillion isk for a ship that every 60 seconds could pop a mom then thats great. totally unrealistic and never going to happen but great."
"supported."
"i really like the idea of incarna, and very much look forward to it, but i shouldn't have to decant everytime i dock just to get more ammor or some other mudane item. supported."
"you sir have never even read about the spec developement of games, have you? games develope new graphical features all the time, most of the time its in form of sequels or new titles from studios. eve players are gamers and, as far as i've heard, never have played 'only eve'. they buy games as they come and, for most, 100+ fps isnt an requirement as your average gamer is a content tourist. they will upgrade hardware when they absolutely must to play the games that they want, in that terms eve has always been in a kind of a nice position, its been shiny enough to enjoy on more advanced hardware but you could always dial it down for your average laptop. now lets face it, laptops these days run dualcore setups with 3-4gb of ram, and 1gb vram / shared vram for gfx card. sure you got quadcore monsters with 2gb of vram but those are costy and most casual gamers that just want laptop to study and maybe play with wont get those. plus they're not exactly portable in terms of weight & size. forcing them to use cq will make sure that those that chose profession that requires docking and undocking a lot will view it negatively. is this what you deem good for eve?because more players able to play it, i see. to be honest i dare claim that if we go down to the path of requiring hardest hardware for eve to run, we lose more than not requiring it.basicly you're disapointed that people who do not have your fathers creditcard / your income / your low living costs / whatever it is where you're getting the money for your hardware, want devs to better optimize their game? obviously its not away from you, and therefore you should see increase as well. im not on the loop with hdyrophobia but i'd imagine better running game would be your gain as well.oh well what do i know."
"supporting the idea to load the station environment and have a separate disembark button to lead to cq."
"argh, thanks for the cool-off, this has been a fun but trying experience and i too hold you in equally high regard (curses, my nemesis posts again!)that i was not aware of (makes a whole lotta sense now, i figured it was argument by omission). then what i could really use right now is a bit of collaboration; to begin to stitch together our points of agreement and identifying ongoing issues that need a resolution. im gonna have to admit my ignorance here: are corp thieves branded? is that branding searchable? what im getting at is, if its not being done now, i dont think thats a fair expectation to have for the name changing system.but i like the capability anyway (old name search turns up new name too, corp theft flagging, etc.), so what i would propose to the csm is to enquire about the feasibility of such a search function (and most other points) so we can base further discussion on fact rather than conjecture: * * * * * * *yes, i missed you too, thanks for bumping this thread."
"in no way is name changing (as proposed here) going to allow anyone to evade consequences. this is irrefutable. yes, it does add an extra step  be it an incredibly shallow one  but eve is also intended to be an immersive sci-fi experience, and to be omitting an integral facet of life (life [yes, even the guile, deceit, and betrayal] by reflection being sci-fi and thus an intended aspect of said immersion) ...i just dont think one small step should halt greater progress.meh. ccp has done stranger things anyway name changing is nothing compared to character transfers in terms of destroying immersion, evading consequence, etc. that's just ignoring the elephant in the corner of the room"
"i am definitely need a new nameto many jokes about old butt when i tried out this game ,never asked myself if there was a option to change names(my fault,i know)only to realize it later on,that it was not possible. don,t mind having the name,but i would change it ,if there was a option.grtz old butt"
"a potential compromise could be that contacts/watch list/standings carry over to all names.does it matter that much that the instant fred mcgee pops up in local you don't realize that he was d34thmasterbaitor last time he ganked you if he's already on your watch list and shows up as a red?"
"supported ~"
"holy **** yes. +1"
"-"
"/signed"
"somehow i doubt anything you can buy with rl $$$ is going to make that much difference in dust. not on a grand scale anyway, and given that you don't have a monthly subscription rate, does it really matter?by the same token, you could say paying for a sub in eve is an unfair advantage. or buying plex for that matter, though i fail to see how forking $250 out of your own pocket for a stock pos and thanny is an unfair advantage, especially when someone is likely just going to blow up both of them anyway.i've already said a dozen times, (or half that anyway), that rmt's are selling stuff left, right, and center, which makes any microtransactions effect on eve completely without ripples. except for those that roll up against the rmt's, which is the whole point isn't it.what you're not seeing with your somewhat skewed perspective, is that the microtransaction business model is the product of the rmt's, and not the developers. developers have simply proven adaptable and shifted their own business model to apply competition against the rmt's who are otherwise ruining their business.microtransactions work. people are perfectly willing to spend their money to get ahead in a game, and they are generally not concerned about whether they buy their advantage from the developers or the rmt's. generally however, they will spend an extra dollar or two, to be on the safe side and within the rules, to keep from getting their accounts banned. this is what the dev's are relying on, which is why you don't see them competing pricewise with the rmt. that's the way i see it anyhow, and i appreciate the dev's proactive approach to maintaining a competative business model that hurts the rmt."
"so having a nyx with supercap char after 2 days in eve while others have maybe a rifter after that time is not an advantage? then you say that they dont know how to use it, how is that different in dust? if i look for example at bf:bc2, the unlocks give you better stuff, still i have little doubt i can defeat virtually every 2 day old player with all gear if i only use basic gear. also right now i am pretty sure i know how to use a supercap, but i dont have the isk to get one. how does rmt'ing one with plex (sorry it is just rmt) not give me an advantage above not doing it?also it is imo highly unlikely dust will have must of an influence on eve, ccp claims alot more than they deliver."
"so the 2 day old new to eve player spends $720 on a nyx (based on current plex/ rl gtc pricing), has the understanding to get into an alliance, hstarts a second acct to get fuel to the nyx, buys more gtc to convert to plex to buy the fuel and has the understanding not to lose a nyx. i doubt that.that is alot of rl cash for just one nyx and the support for it even if you have the understanding to use it properly. i somehow don't think ccp is going to have items in the money store for dusties that cost over $700...... ccp has repeatedly stated that dust is going to have a significant impact to nullsec eve. not low sec... not hi-sec. those players are going to impact how our sov mechanics work. that is a big deal. the larger issue is that i feel ccp is slipping rl money store purchases for advantages in game into eve. they are warming everyone up with vanity mt only and within a few months of dust rolling out will include it in our game. i can see the dev blog now--- dust 514 uses cash for item mt and it is part of eve. to be consistent we are adding items to the mt store such as modules and ships that you can only purchase there with aur............"
"this is argument has been used by forum warriors/trolls who happen to hold a minority opinion since the advent of the interwebs.of course, it is utter bull****.yes, there is no guarantee this forum thread represents an entirely accurate statistical summary of the playerbase's preference.no, that doesn't mean every other eve player who did not post in the thread agrees with you, effing moron. that's how statistics work. you take a sample minority and poll their opinion, innit? this is what this forum represents. 80% of this sample group agrees mts are detrimental to the game."
"[quote[so the 2 day old new to eve player spends $720 on a nyx (based on current plex/ rl gtc pricing), has the understanding to get into an alliance, hstarts a second acct to get fuel to the nyx, buys more gtc to convert to plex to buy the fuel and has the understanding not to lose a nyx. i doubt that.he doesnt need the understanding not to lose a nyx, he simply has a huge advantage compared to a 2 day old noob in a rifter. of lets assume he also uses a rifter, fitted with officer items. he has a much stronger ship than the 2 day old noob that doesnt use plexes.and how about the other example, me. i am pretty sure i know how to fly a supercap, am quite far skill wise, yet i dont have one. if i buy one with plex i do have one, and a nyx really is better than my thanatos. so that new dusty buys a tank in the store, and goes straight forward to the enemy, and dies horribly. how is that different than what we already have in eve and plexes? ccp also stated they would iterate on fw, that pi gave you options to really govern a planet, t3 ships would have 5 subsystems of each, they would add more ihub upgrades, storefronts, giving smaller groups a chance in 0.0, etc. in other words, ccp states alot more than they deliver.after which it can be sold on the market/contracts again. why again would i care if people get an advantage by purchasing stuff with aur or plex?"
"he doesnt need the understanding not to lose a nyx, he simply has a huge advantage compared to a 2 day old noob in a rifter. of lets assume he also uses a rifter, fitted with officer items. he has a much stronger ship than the 2 day old noob that doesnt use plexes.and how about the other example, me. i am pretty sure i know how to fly a supercap, am quite far skill wise, yet i dont have one. if i buy one with plex i do have one, and a nyx really is better than my thanatos. so that new dusty buys a tank in the store, and goes straight forward to the enemy, and dies horribly. how is that different than what we already have in eve and plexes? ccp also stated they would iterate on fw, that pi gave you options to really govern a planet, t3 ships would have 5 subsystems of each, they would add more ihub upgrades, storefronts, giving smaller groups a chance in 0.0, etc. in other words, ccp states alot more than they deliver.after which it can be sold on the market/contracts again. why again would i care if people get an advantage by purchasing stuff with aur or plex?i personnally didn't agree with adding plex in game. i would be happy to see it disappear altogether however it is firmly a part of the economy of eve now.to address your last point- i honestly don't care how much you do or don't care about buying advantages in game and the impact it will have.the first line in this thread was directing it to the csm. there are a huge amount of threads currently out with player feedback regarding mt in eve. most of the posts i have read have been clearly against the idea. i want to see what the csm did,is doing or are going to do to address what is a large issue for a lot of the player base."
"i wouldn't be so bold as a player to tell ccp how they should make their money. obviously ccp decided they would be able to make more money launching dust as a free download with mt. ccp has stated that they will keep markets in eve and dust seperated. it seems that direct transactions however will be possible. i doubt that items bought with aurum will have a major effect in eve or dust. dust might have some effect on sov warfare. but lets face it: it's the big fleet battles that decide who's in control. alliances often don't even bother keeping sovereingty in the systems they control. i don't think they can make it much worse than it is now, so i'll just wait and see what happens."
"i know csm can't really propose gameplay changes to ccp but the game really needs a sub cap counter to super caps or caps in general sub cap game play is diverse and varied caps are just do you have more if check yes you win.my idea is a role for assault frigs as dedicated cap killers strip their guns make them tanky with a tiny sig radius then give them a dumb fire missile that does a percent structure damage to anything the missile hits, think like stealth bomber bombs but just for 1 target.a small to medium sized group of these should propose a serious threat to a super cap fleet and should prevent them from being used till they are cleared off the field."
"supported, mayeb a larger group, but i mean, even in rl, every ship that enters service in a navy, another ship somewhere will be developed to counter it.this is basic fact, but in eve, we have caps, which can only eb countered by more caps, which really doesnt make sense. a dedicated capkiller would be useful, and would give people in standard subcaps a purpose even on large battlefields, running interference on the assault frigs. which means taht blob warfare will have to eb more structured instead of just caps and logistsics blobbing it out, you would have a blob of caps, relying on smaller ships to defend them against even smaller ships they otherwise would be hurt for.basically, battleships -> destroyers -> submarines -> battleshipstranslated to eve thats pretty much, caps kill battleships (and yes other caps too), which have the purpose of killing the frigs, who kill the caps.because realistically, if a ship the size of a frig went against a cap or supercap, ist so small it would be very dificult to hit, so realistically it would be fitted with weapons designed to combat the ship type that would have the hardest time engaging it.battlefields rely on specializations of function to accomplish goals, so should fleets in eve."
"you complain about all t3s looking the same, and then ask for a change that will lead to all t3s looking the same? what?"
"you obviously didn't understand the idea then. the idea is to let you choose the configuration of the ship separately from the sub. basically, you would add your subs, then choose the appearance of your ship, rather than have the sub choice determine the appearance."
"no, i understood it perfectly. what you'd get is everyone using the one appearance that looked the least ******ed."
"of course, because everyone has the exact same taste.as it stands, every t3 ship pretty much looks the same already due to there only being a few decent sub combos worth a damn. that was the whole reason for the idea. so we could have the setup we wanted without being forced to have all the ships look the same."
"bump"
"i think this is a well deserved boost to low sec...."
"not supporting this idea to trick carebears into going into low-sec. you should get a higher security boost in highsec than in lowsec or 0.0. it makes no sense for concord to give higher rewards for areas where it cares less."
"reality says otherwise as lawless and instable countries means cheap workers and recources which produce a cheap yet very comfortable livestyle for more powerfull countries. (the capitalistic version of slavery.)africa and south america have proven thus, the problem is in eve there is no real equivalent of workers. no need to recruitable crew, no price for the manpower the complete non pod population produces, the normal reason for unstable regions as it exists in reality does not exist in eve."
"fyi, any rookie ship (impairor, ibis, velator, reaper) can fit a cynosural field generator i and a micro auxiliary power core i with cynosural field theory 4.easier to haul modules around than frigates."
"spike those t2 prices right through the roof! 1 bil isk vagabonds for all!"
"you mean t1 ships will be used for pvp again ?"
"actualy this wil not woek with alcieme wil be again after soem time not wotth tio do alcemie curently allready not worht. if you wiling to make alchieme that all ting needto be remade, for now you need 5 allchiemi large poses tio suplay ione reaction chiene thatr not worth to do att all only for tech even that cost to much to suply thios large towers, 330 araund cost 1 large tower permonth with curent pi and ice product prices. so that wil cost in pos fuele araund 1,5 bilj isk, if afcors allchiemie to wil be remade to suplay full chiene off reactrion with one large tower than that culd work but curent mechanics such on alciemie.can work again change to increase demand for smal reactions like sylramic fibers and racial reactions like tungsten carbide et. thos curently almost not worth to make att all.and moon go cant be nerfed that its only one ting wath actualy hold allainces live and suport sov payments, ship reinbursments etc. fitout that pasive income even corps wuil sofer and wil need to increase drasticly taxes laike curent medium tax its 15% than medium tax minumu mwill be 25% or 30%, moon go its to important income for corps and allainces to get rede off it.eny way t2 building need some lowe to now this day its not worth to make ney t2 ship with have bpo, t2 bpos need to taked out off game permanetly that wil give more industrialsts chane to ern money not only some coulpe ppl in eve. afcors that wil increase oprice abit but market wil verry fast regulate it, and that wuil increase demant for for all reactions to specuialy small reactions like sulramic fibers and racial rections."
"can someone translate this into english?"
"can someone tell this guy in some language he can understand to ... never mind.another qq post. if you want some of those moons why don't you grow some balls and go fight for them?"
"this may have been said, but the \"alchemie\" guys english was so bad i didn't read the entire post.tech is very valuable. so techmoons are valuable. i can live with that. would be nice if there was an alternative method of getting technetium. generating it from \"lesser\" minerals. using... alchemy :)"
"back when eve came out, visual customization was rampant in other mmo's, far beyond the player's face. i played eve for a few months when it first came out, and was disappointed there wasn't more of that. i just recently started playing again, and i've got to say, i see things being changed and adjusted and improved, but just ... nothing that makes the game cooler! i'd love to see options for painting ships, maybe different kinds of paint as trade goods, and the ability to have the corporation logo appear on your ship."
"it would be cool and all, but as it is it's hard enough to see ships when they are so far away that any paint, decals or custom body mods wouldn't be noticeable. this would be done at the expense of rendering too, there are some neat optimizations you can do if every ship using the same model looks exactly the same."
"options / video / (enable/disable) paint and logos"
"scenario: pirates wardec your corp, or you're the pirate and have someone chasing you for revenge. either way, you're docked. you think \"i wonder if they're out there, waiting for me ... too bad there's no windows on this massive space station, or no service provided by the station to show me whats out there!\" you're like a groundhog in a hole, in this advanced society, your only chance to know what's out there is to undock?!i propose a \"station view\" button when docked. clicking it will show the view of the station from the outside, along with the station's overview of it's surroundings.maybe this button will only be available to players who have a certain standing with the station? maybe players with high standing might actually get access to the stations scanner? anything would seem more likely than being in a big fancy space station and having no way of knowing who's sitting out there waiting to blow you away.just sayin"
"it would be cool if they could merge this with walking in stations, or captain's quarters, and you could see outside space in real time :)"
"i support this."
"this actually makes sense. supported."
"no doesn't protect high sec residents, just throws scum against scum, this would even make more killed stuff since you like that much to blow players ships.ho wait, you don't have the balls to fight vs confirmed pvp boys...i understand now why you live in high sec.what a dumb this one....edit: self proclaimed \"pirates\" and \"pvpeers\" like you are the breakfast pussies in low sec. come get some in low if you have some balls to shoot other thing then defenceless players like noobs indys and small industrials.this would be a huge step from ccp to make low sec more interesting and bring us interesting targets: ubber piwates would like to see how much time they need to leave the game or start missioning to be able to return in high sec thickens !!"
"thanks for all the responses to this proposal. i want to clarify one point, that i meant the security status penalty for offensive war attacks to apply to characters, not corporations. high skill-point characters can easily be moved between corporations, but skills cannot be moved between characters."
"i am going to assume you're not a troll even though you probably are.you seem quite visibly agitated about a computer game. you should ask your mother about the times she burned her bra in the 60s to fight for you now having actual women's rights in an actually oppressive society in real life.just don't mention to her that you are progressing the cause of feminism by making unintelligent keyboard warrioring on an internet forum about pixels in an spaceship game unless you want her to cry."
"sexism? what? where ?what do you mean???"
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"confirming i too would like to wear a dress."
"i believe she is referring to the tony gonzales novel, empyrean age, which i guess you didn't read. the chamberlane or whatever of amarr had same sick habits."
"exactly! its outrageous to suggest there could be any futuristic and progressive society that isn't completely dominated by state feminism and gender-pedagogics."
"\"i accidently made my boobs way too big!\"\"when my character started, i wanted him to be skinny, but now that i'm a mogul, i want him fat!\"\"i've been playing eve for 5 years, and i want the age to show on my character's face.\"\"i just fought in a 500-ship nullsec superbattle, but i don't have any battle scars! now i want one!\"tired of feeling this way!? have no fear! ccp is so awesome, they'll read this thread and decide to make body and certain age/complexion options re-customizable for everyone!!! we are all just clones, after all yay!"
"support"
"yeah, even my alliance (though were pretty samll), is divided into highly specialised corps that draw from a central rookie corp. would amke sense to just transfer them between, instead of ahving a perios fo time where they are just \"gone\" from teh member list while quitting rookie corp and joining the main one."
"i too feel that nullsec should be nerfed again, to make it even worse than highsec."
"its lalready worse meny ppl moved again out off 0.0."
"and removing bounties would send those who didn't leave right back to empire. missions are boring as hell, trying to force everyone to do them is a bad thing."
"local is an impossible to avoid intelligence tool (unless your in wormhole space) and as such has no real place in a game that is based around pvp but allows bots and those who cannot be bothered to take proper precautions to escape the consequences of their actions with an instant \"here's a red/neut dock up quick\" card."
"what are you talking about? you can move back and forth within an info window and you can open new info windows by enabling it in the options or holding down the shift-key when clicking on show info. so either i don't understand what you're trying to say, or you're imagining things."
"judging by the op, i'd say that you're the one imagining things actually."
"its called pod yourself. then you spawn where your clone is. not supported."
"sorry that its so wwhen you lern english in eve ;)"
"there should be an incursions api for community sites and tools to work with!info would be at least constellationid, stagingsolarsystemid. maybe even some info on control percentage.."
"i vote make them be destroyed. not packed up and moved though."
"n.m. i just read the other post."
"and i'm sure there will be some back and forth after ccp's review to boot. it's nice to see people frothing over output from the csm but these things take time. given the performance of this csm so far, i have no doubt the final product will be worth waiting for so just be patient."
"oh the pain"
"you do understand that because of the effectiveness of logistics fleets are measured by their ability to \"alpha\" a target before any of the logi can react? if this module exists that threshold will be higher depending on how truly effective the module is. so promoting for bigger blobs?"
"have you tried unchecking load station environment?"
"the other interesting thing is that all the csm mains have become strangely accident-prone recently. for example, just last week i was almost crushed by a falling piano."
"that was me. my bad."
"o/ reminding ah of this wonderful thread."
"maybe it's just me...but why did you support the topic then?"
"can't imagine why there isn't an option to keep the original hangar view. i've tried incarna on duality and all i can say is \"meh\"! my original complaint still stands. what can we do \"in eve\" with incarna. nothing, for however long it takes ccp to \"add something...\"personally, i am *not* looking forward to incarna..."
"i agree, i don't know if i mentioned something similar here or in the a.k.a. thread but i think that is going to be an integral part of the name changing system. i'm slowly making an attempt to coalesce all these general ideas ...should i just start a new thread since the poster of the op has lost interest?"
"well, the idea is that you make the game f2p to encourage people to play it, even when they don't feel like spending the cash on it. this isn't part of the rmt business model i mentioned earlier of course, but a developer adjustment to that model with an intended purpose. it gets players to play, and dust is such a game, that it is going to need a very large community to make it an effective addition to the eve universe. ideally, dust has 50-100% more players than eve online. think of it this way: ccp has advertised eve as having more than 50k unique planetary bodies, (i don't specifically recall whether it included moons or not), which theoretically can be inhabited and controlled to one degree or another. one sec.. (yeah, i know you're not really waiting).."
"a lot of that is base speculation, but if any dev's are reading this, i suggest you get a poll on what fps players are interested in and adjust to suit; even if only a little. personal opinion from someone who used to love rpg's and eve: i don't want to get to complicated in dust; i just want to shoot stuff and make people hurt badly before taking their stuff. i don't mean griefing either. i want associated costs and grind to be minimal, so i can enjoy the fps part of the game, and not get jammed up with industrial logistics. warfare, strategy, tactics, and associated logistics should be my only concerns. if i toss a blueprint, (no research or skill required), in the oven on the way to the next job, so it pop's out my favorite dropship, tank, or whatever when we arrive and are ready to deploy that's fine. corp handles materials cost; no mining required. i get a pay stub, share of operations or whatever, and the ship makes my gear for me. automated, all i do is make the decision based on the scenario i'm going in to. simple. if i run a corp here and there, or just here, or just there, then maybe i have a bit more work to do, but everything is fair. maybe i can get rich, and maybe it doesn't matter. what matters to me, is what happens on the ground when i'm in combat and how i deal with it, what tools i have to deal with it, and being capable of doing it without any of those. when all i have left is a knife, i want to be able to use it. end of story. survival of the fittest, not the richest."
"\"think of it this way: ccp has advertised eve as having more than 50k unique planetary bodies, (i don't specifically recall whether it included moons or not), which theoretically can be inhabited and controlled to one degree or another. one sec.. (yeah, i know you're not really waiting).."
"sorry, i can't find exact quotes right now, but all i can say is you're jumping at space baloons. ccp has released in interviews and the like that dust has high, low, and null security just like eve, and players will be able to choose between them. highsec planetary combat will be npc based of course, but it will still be there. lowsec and null take things further, and null allows the players to build their own planetary infrastructure. null is also the only one that involves alliance impacting changes based on this interaction. i'm not sure about planetary infrastructure availability in lowsec for dust players.actually, i'm not certain about anything. we can probably expect changes to various things along the way, which will make what we think we know now kinda pointless."
"rps: so, if im an eve player, how is my game going to change after dust is released?torfi: well, you have the ability to be more strategic when you are conquering planets and solar systems, in nulsec. those are the main touchpoints. highsec carebears need not worry. the same for lowsec. the main touchpoint upon the launch of dust, will be in nulsec, will be in sovereignty, will be in inflicting damage and destruction and death upon your enemies, destroying their infrastructure and their means to survive, either by means or scorched earth or by stealing their installations on the surfaces of planets. there will be more going on on the surfaces of planets. weve introduced mechanics allowing people to manufacture goods on the planets, but planets will play a more pivotal role in sovereignty mechanics further down the line.\"snippet of the rps interview on dust 514copied from my first post... there is your quote........ highlighted the important bit for you....just announced on the at9 stream--- ishukone scorp.......with aur purchase ofcourse.....closer and closer to the edge ccp......."
"wait, is that just a different paintjob for the same ship (like the corp-logos they mentioned) or can you actually purchase an entire ship from aurum, possibly with other attributes than a normal scorpion?"
"it is just a different paint job. for now..... this is just one more step closer to more then just vanity items though."
"oh, yeah. i was just wondering whether they were there already. ccp have lost so much credit with me, that i wouldn't even have been surprised anymore."
"it's a custom skin, and you know what, if they make special bonus ships and start selling old at win ships for aur, i'll say good job, kick the rmt in the nuts. that is the only reason to be bothered by this mt thing you know, if you happen to be a rmt. are you?what you're doing in this thread is propaganda. ..and i believe that is what i was looking for; the part you conveniently avoided."
"and just to be clear, some players have specifically asked for custom skins for their ship on these forums here. in this exact forum where you are not treating it as it should be. this is not a proposal thread directed at ccp or the csm, which is all that is suppoosed to be posted here, so sod off"
"once again you fail at reading......what is the very first line of this post????? let me copy it in for you.. i will make it bold so you don't miss it this time:i would love to hear what the csm has to say about the mt issue especially considering the quotes and links i will provide below.seems to be clearly addressed to the csm and asking for feedback regarding this issue.read this again too--- its the description of the assembly hall section of the forums:assembly halla platform for players to bring topics to the attention of the council of stellar management.to address the rest of your post take a peak at over 100 pages of player feedback on the mt issue as a whole (once again scroll up and read). those 100 pages are just in 2 threads......and as far as sodding off--- no thank you. i will pass. u mad?"
"unfortunantly you have to read once again (scroll back up to the original post). dust will not have an impact on eve hi and low sec...... dust will have its own hi and low where they can pew pew each other at will(so the game doesn't die if they don't get 0.0 contracts and such). i am discussing the tie in with eve itself and asking for the csm to give the community some feedback on the mt issue in eve and how the rl mt in dust is going to impact the sov mechanics in eve.there.... i made it simple for you this time"
"tired of this canard. some say \"what's wrong with mt, you can buy a plex and buy a character, and implants and stuff with the isk, so why not some mt thing?\"the purchased character, the implants and stuff were earned. someone spent the time and the effort in the game to collect those items, train that character, make that isk etc. in-game time and effort, labor, was expended by someone in the past. they took all the risks everyone else took, played the game, flipped our cans, we flipped theirs, we shot them and they shot us.but with this mt stuff, we're going to find a blurry line, they're already seeming to cross it in dust and teasing to cross in eve. so far the indications are that dust players will use aurum to purchase a bpo or some kind of \"blueprint\". they can then make and sell the items.is that going to be cool with everyone in eve when you can buy the t2 shuttle that has 50m3 of cargo, but the only source of the bpo was aurum? i mean you can still buy the shuttle with isk, you can buy the bpo with isk if someone resells it - so that's ok huh? no, it's not ok. new functionality is introduced via a means that is has a source of risk, labor, time and effort that is outside the environment. ccp has already done this before with some of the boxed sets. the teaser is the ishukone scorp, then it'll be the theology council maller, the quafe extra scrumptious that gives +5% on selling your soul. i'm sure we've all heard the old story about putting a frog in water and turning up the heat. enjoy the simmer."
"it doesn't sound like you are discussing the tie-in with eve at all, but rather flaming over speculation on your part about the future of microtransactions. that is what you are doing, and i don't fail at reading. your entire post and every response, (except your last), reflects this.why would csm have an opinion on fictitious speculation of what ccp intendeds for the game. seems to me they don't know anything about it, and couldn't possibly hold an opinion on something that doesn't exist, hasn't been discussed, and is yet to even be truly considered at this time.when it comes down to it, ccp will make a decesion on that which reflects on how the playerbase seems to feel about it, and how they feel about it. before they even make a point of evaluating our opinion, they first have to decide on their own, and how they see it negatively or positively impacting the game.just an fyi, despite nullsec being the only major crossover to eve, it has been discussed and released that eve and dust players will share the same chat channels and communications, and the same server. the eve shard will have the number of players increase with every addition of a new player to dust. the only exception is that dust players will fight their battles on different servers around the world, to reduce lag and ping problems which would occur during those battles if they existed on the same server.your thread title is irrelevent to me. it's just there for show, so you can flame these forums and get upvotes. what you're doing is obvious.edit: ..and yes, i am going to see about making a point of destroying triple a assets in null after this, when i get my hands on dust."
"sounds like what you're really saying is, \"it's okay if people buy plex with rl $$$ and use it to buy in game items, because then the isk goes to me, but mt is rl $$$ going to ccp and i don't get my piece of the cake. that's just wrong.\"okay, well at least that makes a bit odf sense, and it's the strongest and most valid argument i've seen to date. heck, even the rmt's kick back to the ingame economy once in awhile.here's my counter argument though, and as far as i'm concerned it outweighs anything you could possibly say: mt are a direct frontal assault on rmt's. the plex froms the basis of this assualt, and allows players of any age to exchange rl $$$ for isk, then use it to purchase nearly anything in the game. unfortunately, that is not enough as the plex-to-isk conversion is highly susceptible to fluctuating market prices and does not account for availability of commodities or ease of access to them. rmt's will deliver everything you want, to any safe system of your choice in game.still not a good enough reason to buy imo, but they make a lot of rl $$$ doing this. in fact, even i was a little shocked to know something easily achieved could net me $75 real cash if i anonymously sold it on ebay. something i could achieve in game, with no more investment than selling a couple plex and having isk to spare. now i know why rmt deal in plex.i never would of course, even now that i hold less value in my sub due to meta gaming bs, griefing, and a generally popshod economy. but the point still stands. it's easy to rmt, and it has very obvious real rewards, for which the only counter is to offer stiff competition that has no repercussions from gm's, dev's, or cc companies. we're talking about relatively safe, easy transfer with the game company, as opposed to potential identification theft, cc fraud, and hacking of game accounts.players control the value of plex of course, which automatically places them in the purvey of rmt yet again. not only can they use them to make money in the short term, but they can invest in them: buy and resell to players for profit in game, which they can use to make even more rl $$$. good idea, but not working out so well in the wash i think. maybe get rid of plex entirely, and switch to direct purchases of ships, items, and isk. remove it from player domain entirely, and provide direct competition for rmt."
"why would the csm have an opinion??? it is the point of the csm to have an opinion and to address issues raised by the player base. ccp has asked the csm their opinion on mt and additions to it and shown the csm what they are planning for th mt system as stated during the at9 coverage. it is very valid to ask what exactly the stance of the csm has been on this issue.the point of the csm is to be the filter/middle men between ccp and the player base.oh you are absolutely correct in stating that my thread title is there to get attention. the more people that see this will realize the impact that mt will have on eve. the more times this post gets bumped the better the chance that the csm will see it and respond to the questions asked.based on your edit--- yes u mad!"
"so put in simpler terms, allow frigate sized craft to fit a high damage weapon that bypasses shields and armour but is only effective on capital sized craft.this actually sounds like an awesome idea, it would make smaller ships more relevant in large engagements!i bet that ccp could find a way to implement this in a balanced fashion that would make large engagements in eve more fun."
"i like this idea a lot, but make it so that the af's have to be moving at like quarter speed or so within 5km of the capitals. this would make them easier to kill off and fit with the idea of \"getting in close and sniping the important structural componenets\""
"they also need to cost as much as 900 mil each otherwise they will be spammed and it will be dumb. larger alliances that would be on even ground with supers would throw a hundred or more against supercapitals . people should need to be careful with how they use those or lose a lot of isk very quickly."
"having a ship that perma jams you constantly and you cant do feck all is stupid! yes i have died to a falcon before you say it. i dont mind but not having any chance at all to fight back is just ridiculous. no point using drones when they can also be disco falcons!sick of ships where you can do feck all to defend yourself..its been proven falcons pretty much permajam, there is no chance base..its wrong!"
"currently all skills for t2 weapons and drones have a bonus of 2% per skill-level, but it could take as long as bsv to complete!..my proposal is to change the bonus to 2%^n, where n is the level - 1, like so:current_level = 2 * 1 = 2 | new_level 1: 2^0 = 1current_level = 2 * 2 = 4 | new_level 2: 2^1 = 2current_level = 2 * 3 = 6 | new_level 3: 2^2 = 4current_level = 2 * 4 = 8 | new_level 4: 2^3 = 8 (currently the same bonus, many people just stop here! for a reason, level 5 is not practical!)current_level = 2 * 5 = 10 | new_level 5: 2^4 = 16% bonus which is more attractive!advantages:- easy to implement ... is bitwise friendly;- it rewards skill/race-focused players;- is sweet for bitter-old players;- with the removal of training skills, this could be a nifty way of making players focusing on a specific race!- it doesn't create a big gap between new and old players!.. gangs, fleets and blobs is what matters in a multiplayer game!- [to follow]disadvantages:- [to follow]testing:- possibly creates an imbalance to defense bonuses!"
"yeah, i'm good with this. currently the only reason to train most skills to level 5 is boredom or it being a required skill for something else. 2%/level bonuses do not scale well with current training times, and level 5's tend to severely impact player progression. also, when you have a character trained up to that level, it really should mean something, and an advanced player should pwn players who are only partially trained, making 2-to-1 odds viable for that advanced player.edit: + support"
"get back the standing!"
"then you're barking up the wrong tree, and maybe you should go and ask ccp to beef up some of the other, less popular subsystems a bit?to just have people pick a t3 look, regardless of what subsystem combo they have, however, is plain stupid."
"because you want to put tractor wheels on your ferrari, still have it look like a ferrari, but make it run through muddy and bumpy terrain. why not take this a step further and be able to use any ship skin you want.i'll have my nyx-modelled blackbird now, please."
"deciding the appearance of your ship is stupid?! not having other players being able to guess the setup of your ship based on appearance is stupid?!fine, then like i said many posts ago, just forget i said anything, i wouldn't want to shake up the static, status quo."
"carebears shouldn't have negative sec to start with so no trickery going on here. also what is the point of getting massive sec gain in highsec when those who actually needs it can't enter those systems?"
"try opening your eyes and looking at a perspective other than just from your -10. u see all the yellow skulls? they can rat in high sec because they were responsible enough to not let it drop that far. \"oh noes! i didn't bother to care enough about my sec and now i can't get back to high sec!\" u made your decision now deal with the consequences. or u can rat in the low sec u love so much; u do realize u can already do that right?"
"i have to disagree with this. not because pirates should have to rep their status in lowsec, but because they do it there or in 0.0 anyway, and based on system security increase profit while doing. now here's the dumb: what about highsec players who feel like ratting to raise security status? suddenly they have to go to lowsec and rat in places that are now over-run by pirates, rather than just completely dominated by them. i'm not talking gankers or pirates in highsec either, i'm just talking players.here's what i think, again: no security repping for gankers and pirates at all. you want to rep your security, you stop being a criminal. it should take you days or weeks to have the opportunity again, based on where your security status is at. -5: ten downtimes without a neg. security hit. -10: 30 downtimes. bamm!! suffer. i don't care about your whining either. you play the game your way and suffer the consequences. i also think i should be able to gank you sans security status hit anytime and anywhere without concord interference provided my status is above 0"
"took the liberty of pirating (clever pun or what! ) the idea to incorporate into my low-sec vision thread.just too good to leave out."
"as a counterproposal, i'd say remove security status gain in nullsec. that should at least accomplish part of what you are looking for, and it makes sense. nullsec has no concord, and thus no reason for security status gain, aside from popping rats. either that, or reduce it to the equivalent security status gain you would get in highsec, and make low the predominant area for quick security status gains.i've never actually checked what the gains are per area, but i assume the tougher the rat, the higher the gain."
"other than the mechanics issues involved with changing cynos, is there any valid reason in current eve to not allow dreads in hi sec?what do you think and why?i personally think that dreads should be allowed to fly freely. concord is impossible to tank, hi sec pos owners do need a reason to be paranoid, and none of the dreads are going to be used for suicide ganking and such since they cost so much. in addition, the lack of carrier support will make them more vulnerable to other fleets without making them a guaranteed kill like they are in low/null sec.with their increased mobility and usability, dread popularity will increase, plus it will give smaller alliances a way to build a somewhat capable capital fleet without risking the wrath of khan before they are ready to actually use it.other buff ideas notwithstanding, this relatively simple change could go a long way to helping dreads increase in relative popularity."
"quite simply this is annoying, it's been going on for years, chribba profiled it last year but the problem continues to build. it is no longer confined to the major hubs but is increasely happening in any system in proportion to it's population.there please support the following proposal:ban the spaming of contracts in local."
"i don't see the harm in this proposal.+1"
"yes.only automated bots will be spamming, anyway.if you don't like this proposal, you're a bot."
"only automated bots will be spamming scam contracts. lots of people will drop a contract link in local to advertise on their way through. that's not spam btw.so, given spam is essentially chat, how would you propose to isolate contracts from it, and also to actually isolate actual spammers? pretty sure that the way the system works, the game likely makes little differentiation between hi and 2xcaldari navy control systems only 2 million isk.sure, it has the autolink, but what is that really?"
"i support the concept but not the imlpementation. if ccp would move lots of the faction things to the market, a lot of the spam would go away."
"right now, it's impossible to swap ammunition ceasing fire. this makes sense. there is nothing wrong with this.there is something wrong with how the user interface handles this. we should be able to tell the server \"keep shooting, but oh by the way, change ammunition when you finish the current cycle, spend the appropriate time reloading, and resume fire when you finish.\"while this isn't a huge issue for missiles, projectiles, or hybrids, it is a quality of life concern for amarrians.on the plus side, this should reduce lag, as what previously took three messages to the server...\"stop firing\"\"load new crystal\"\"start firing again\"...now takes only one:\"finish current cycle, load new ammo, resume fire.\"with all the time spent on \"ui coreification,\" i feel this is a longstanding issue that should now be resolved."
"every other bloody race has no trouble reloading... it just picks up new ammo and then your ready to go.amarrians have it bad when it comes to tech 2 ammo or faction ammo.everything stops dead in its tracks for one busted crystal out of 8...you have to reload the whole damn array with a different crystal then switch back...then start firing again...only to have an another bloody crystal shatter after one cycle.there's a difference between rational and insane.... this...is insane.i don't mean to sound like some spaz right now...but its been a nagging issue i've had to tolerate for a better part of a year now.... make the maddness stop!just have it stop and auto-reload provided you have enough ammo...and then you fire them again! small price to pay for a little seamless pew pew yes?tldr: hell yes! supported!"
"i get around that issue by sticking spare crystals in a container so they aren't used prematurely, and then i just discard the entire stack when one of them breaks.the few remaining shots left per crystal aren't worth bothering about, and i'd rather that the new set break at nearly the same time.if any changes to laser crystals themselves were done, i'd appreciate the ability to combine and split damaged crystals the way you can combine and split stacks of ammunition.(does any other race have to purchase 4000 rounds of faction ammo per turret when they go off to pewpew? no, but amarrians do.)"
"i consider the disruption caused by crystals shattering one of the downsides of lasers, one that can be worked around by raw isk (spares \o/) or intelligent use of weapon grouping (made a lot easier recently).as for op: simple little tweak to reduce the clickity-click which is always a good thing. make sure you add it to the \"1000 things\" thread as well."
"have your proposal include hybrids, projectiles and missiles being able to reload and change ammo types in one second like lasers, and i will give a thumbs up."
"as a diehard laser user i have to agree. we get such a good deal on ammo changing that reloading faction and t2 crystals is a minor annoyance. i run a cnr cruise-missile boat for giggles against angels and the 10 seconds to reload always seems like forever. i much prefer my lasers, weird reloading regardless.i will agree that it makes sense to be able to hit reload and have it put in a new set of the same crystal however. even if only one crystal has burnt out."
"ask a friend to help, problem solved."
"i suppose i should have explained my point. i meant anyone using a cyno. currently, like drake suggested, cyno's are most effectively deployed by a cyno alt, yours, your friends, or someone elses. an immortal pod pilot with one purpose in life: get up fly cheap frig to location, deploy cyno, get podded, go to sleep for awhile."
"the only part of customization that causes rendering issues, is when the custom logo and details are seperate images, or require tags that tell each client to apply a modifier to the original textures. this is generally assuming the new texture has mutiple layers that render at lower resolutions when the object becomes more distant. if the customization was just another texture stored in the database, there would be no change to the display properties or rendering limitations."
"well then that's exactly what it should be."
"they should make all textures the same resolution first."
"yes, but how to identify the ships out there. from inside the station, (or viewing a cam outside like the jita cam on a screen in station - best, and most feasible idea i think), you won't be able to identify individual ships and pilots. i propose we add on to what you propose, and put a terminal in the shows you who, (and what ship they are flying), is on grid around the station, as well as docking and undocking pilots on another screen.later we could have additions to that, like using the station computers to scan incoming and outgoing vessels, or just those on grid for cargo and fitting. there could be another console for looking up pilot details too. type in the name, access the database, and depending on your security clearance anything from corporation standings to exact skills and pvp history."
"that's what i meant by overview. it would just show an overview window, just like when you're in your ship. but with this option built into captain's quarters (which would be even more common-sense-ically awesome!), maybe a more graphical overview would be appropriate"
"i don't like the button idea, there should just be windows, even if it's just to enjoy the view. but yeah, the ability to check who's out there would be nice as well."
"hi. im not sure if this is the right place to voice this concern and if it isnt then it would be appreciated if someone could kindly point me in the right direction.i raised a petition almost a week ago now and still it appears as open. could someone please clarfy the petition response times for me as this is the first petition i have ever raised and a week to get an answer seems awfully long.many thanks."
"it depends on the category and if major issues have been around recently, but it could take 2 weeks, or more. as long as it's open, you'll get a response eventually."
"this. also the cost should be related to the size of the corps involved (including the defending corp - it should be cheap to dec 1 man corps who are just trying to avoid the npc tax rate)."
"^ this. supported. +1"
"this is not how you make a sandwich, woman."
"lol. that's a very roundabout way to say you're disappointed you can't cross-dress, you perv!"
"troll 1/10: op doesn't understand the semantics of the word sexism. we female pilots can do anything you boys can do and do it better."
"i've read quite a few of the threads on black ops getting covert cloak.i feel the covert ops cloak should be a given. it slightly raises it's survivability while not truly changing it's combat effectiveness. this helps it survive return trips when it for whatever reason would have to fly solo or without cyno. it doesn't create a solo machine because battleships even without a targetting penalty have god awful targetting/align times. in the case of the widow and ecm i would say make bonuses either uniform or matching bonuses (either all speed/agility related, mirror the recons, or for those who want the black ops to do a more supporting role grant them something like a rr bonus. as for improving jump range/fuel i would have to agree to this as well. one of the major complaints i keep seeing is that for a specialized ship it seems to need a lot of help performing this special task. whether it be going out of ones way in fitting it or having alot of ships supporting it. if the black ops are support ships why are they being supported? i know logi ships do an entirely different form of support but they still work in pairs or groups as one would be easily primaried otherwise. black ops ships already work in pairs as well one black ops and one ship with the cyno, but with limited range and fuel it makes their job very difficult/inefficient. (a covert cloak would help with this as you would be able just jump in and cloak instead of using the cyno) besides a cloaky blockade runner would also be providing extra bombs/ammunitions etc so the more fuel they have to carry the shorter your trip will be right? to sum it up grant the covert cloak, smooth out the bonuses, and improve fuel/jump range. personally the bonuses are the only point i feel shaky on as ew/sd/etc is already done by the recons and would probably result in them being op especially in a fleet but then again rr etc would be welcomed in a fleet of otherwise squishy ships. what keeps them alive is not getting targeted generally a battleship loses in this aspect so thats a major set back alone. and those of you mad at cloaky ships escaping remember that that is their purpose and primary defense. however they can still be caught(whether it takes planning/luck or whatever it can still be done) and once they are caught they go pop rather easily.one last thing create special scanning probes for detecting strictly cloaked objects just so people can't spend forever just cloaked up that should make everyone happy."
"except that they won't. granted people will fly them, but not in those kinds of numbers. the vast majority of players will go capital over and above blops."
"dumb that they can't. if they could it would be so much more useful. also take into account that at this point black ops are the most underused ship in the game. give their portal range a boost and they may actually become viable."
"let it go, drf and dc have made a mutual equal profits deal so you wont get affected by them killing your rmt coalition, besides with vuk lau out of the way you will get more profits from selling isk"
"i dont mean to be rude, but there are some grammatical errors that are keeping me from completely understanding what you've written. i think you're saying that this module will increase the ability of logistics to respond because it raises survivability from alpha thus making it a boost to blobs.i do realize this; in fact i mentioned this worry in the op, so what i'd like to gleam from you is this: do you think this is more or less of an advantage than what ecm currently affords? with the absence of ecm shutting down an enemy logistic, would the ability of the module to transfer damage (received from the rest of the fleet, naturally)to an enemy logistic or the enemy receiving repping be equivalent? and you've prompted a really interesting question, just what development could actually be bad for blobs anyway?"
"he's talking about alphafleets, which are designed to use the high alpha of artillery to destroy an enemy ship before logistics get to it. you suggestion would mean more artillery is required to pop a ship in a single volley, and would thus mean that blobs would need to be bigger. ecming logistics doesn't make a differance."
"it's sisi, it isn't the finished product yet."
"sounds like a great idea"
"this sounds like a \" super's arn't fair \" post by people who either, don't want to fly them so they support any nerf to them, have died to them multiple times, or some other lame reason, theres a reason supers are considered to be the most powerful and destructive ships in the game....cause they are? thats why they cost 18-60 billion isk, but now these guys want it to be \" fair \" i wanna kill a nyx with my abaddon herp derp!...plz so if you don't want to deal with super's go to empire and care bear.btw....if you want to be honest a single npc empire state probably have more super's than the entire drf and its freinds combined, if you can afford to fly it then fly it, and dont ruin other players experience."
"it really is getting to the point of another titan manifesto is coming soon. it's very simple to alot of people that supers being dropped with zero support obliterating anything is game breaking to the point of absurdity. cap gameplay is very boring ,allways has been in eve it's do you have more if check yes you win and the long awaited super cap critical mass has been reached that was warned oh so long ago."
"so true but at least they have to push more buttons then the old dd titans did. :)"
"ccp have already agreed that supercarriers need a nerf though. the only interesting debate is about how they're going to do it."
"bump! hope its in incarna!"
"i have voiced my oppinion elsewhere on the forums earlier, but adds my view here as well.i fully support making cq optional in the following way.chose in esc menu if you want to go to hangar view or quarters as default when you dock. if in hangar view, you can enter cq via click of a button and vice versa.by no means do i want this from a pc performance perspective. i have no troubble using cq on my pc (though i hardly ever use less then 2 accounts at the time, and would need to disable station environment on all but one if cq isn't optional).i want cq optional exclusively for the immersion that has been mentioned so many times before.first of all, you have propably all seen this video, and perhaps also this one (the getting out of pod part at 1:15 - 1:58). now ccp have here clearly set the bar that the process of getting out of your pod is a rather uncomfortable/painfull experience...now, why the hell would i want to go through that process every time i dock up for 1-2 minutes to get ammo or talk to my agent (you can't talk to your agent face to face from your quarters anyways)... that can easily be 10-20 times every day...first of all, if you're just going to do a quick stop-and-go, there is no point in getting out of your ship. and forcing your character into the cq is nothing other then immersion breaking and unnatural.second, if you're on war ops and are waiting for the order from your fc to undock... wouldn't you want to be ready in your ship, and not sitting in your quarters??? again, very immersion breaking. it just feels plain wrong that when fc screams \"undock, undock , gogogo!!!\", first then are you going to get into the pod, get hoocked in, fill the chamber with pod goo, get the pod over to your ship and get it \"plugged in\"... and then undock...third, if you absolutely have no desire to leave your pod at all, why should you be forced to.now... i'm not against captains quarters or walking in stations. in fact, i've been hyped about it ever since i started playing 4 years ago (and reading about it in e-on magazine #006). and after spending time playing around with it on ducie and sisi for the past weeks i know that i will be spending a lot of my station time there (i never was much into ship spinning anyways)... however, there are times when you could use cq (like if you're gonna be spending some time docked) and it would feel natural. and there are times where you should stay in your ship.just getting the option to not load station environment if you don't want to use cq is just wrong. i still want to see my ship and hangar and besides, if you have docked and then change your mind, you have to re-enable station environment again and then eighter undock and re-dock or relog. the fact that ccp have only given that option is basicaly them saying: <<we want to force you to use your quarters, regardless of how wrong it feels. cause we've spent a lot of time and effort making it. and if you don't want to use it then fu, here's a static image that says \"loading\" for you... take care now, bye bye then>>.so yes.... i want an option."
"here here! i'd love to see atleast a mod fitted onthe actual ship"
"maybe it's the fact that almost all of the threads in general discussion and assembly hall lately have been specifically focused on over-inflated fears of mt, to the point of being more spam than anything else. i get ****ed off at jita local too.i'll point out again that you are speculating. if there is any more information beyond that currently provided through interviews and the like, it is currently the province of nda anyway. irregardless of which, ccp has to test the impact of mt for flavor on the game, before they move on to mt for progression.either way, plex already exist, as do rmt, and we'll not be seeing any truly game altering impact from anything ccp decides to do, unless it happens to be making raven state issues available to the playerbase for $20 a pop. that's not going to happen btw and i don't really believe it should, despite at one time wanting to fly one. fact is even that would only have as much impact as having a few proud rsi owners ragequit for two weeks.the reality is, players would buy and lose these ships just as fast as any other, or faster even given the nature of the design. and if they didn't, it would be the result of them safe-boating around highsec and doing odd missions, or leaving them in their hangar to sit in once in awhile, much like the current existing rsi are treated. either way, it's still a vanity item.time is money.that essentially means that if i work 12 hours a day, then use some of that income to buy something in game, i still worked for it. i just worked for it in a real job, rather than slugging away grinding money in a game. either way, i still earned it, and personally, earning it in real life is less time consuming, which puts us back to time is money. it's not worth it to grind for isk in eve. i can't make in 10 hours in highsec, what it takes me 1 hour to make in a rl job. i don't even make a good living doing what i do, which makes that all that much more poignant.if i made $100 bucks an hour, i'd probably think nothing of wasting 12 hours a day grinding for 100 million isk. the fact that i have to work for everything in rl, makes me less interested in doing it for a game. the game becomes tedious; a waste of my time when i could be doing something else more productive."
"sorry to burst your self righteous bubble, but not everyone is as selfish as you. stop projecting. my concern is the integrity of the game."
"you missed this part: corrected a little typo there, but otherwise, i'm fairly sure that was the next line.how did you get self-righteous and selfish out of that anyway? projecting? now i know you're full of ****."
"quite frankly, this is simply a way for ccp to make more money and sell the items for cash that they have banned and chastised people for doing over the years. it's hypocritical at least. i understand making a buck, but there are ways to do it without messin with the game mechanics from your core money train. i predict it will take less than a year for it to start seriously impacting the greater game."
"they ban and chastise people because they are breaking the rules. point of fact: an american running an rmt business is not only breaking the rules, he is breaking the law and earning undeclared income. the only country i know of where this is in fact legal and encouraged is china, and it is still against the tos. by running an rmt, an individual is profiting off of someone elses proprietary content and technology. it doesn't neccessarily hurt the developers wallet, but they are still selling their merchandise.it's theft."
"thanks for confirming my assertion."
"oh, good troll. gotta give you a high 5 for that one. /sarcasm"
"keep it up, you're doing my argument a favor."
"which part of this gave you the impression that i was projecting on you, my wish, (opinion), that ccp doesn't make money off mt, mts shouldn't exist and are bad for the game, and i want isk from player plex purchases to fill my pockets? i'm confused by that, as every argument i make is generally pro mt, to the point where i aggressively defend ccp's right to do it. not only that, but self-righteous implies religious intolerance when i clearly considered your argument the only one which had validity of all i've seen, and selfish implies that i have something to gain by mts being brought into eve, and want them there for my own use.so yeah, i'm calling you a troll, and the fact that you just fish out one liners to insult me doesn't make it likely i'll see it any other way. as for moral superiority and hypocrisy on my part, maybe i am a little guilty of the former, but certainly not the latter. i won't deny that, and acknowledge that i often come from the high ground, but that is because i claim it and make every effort not to waiver from it. this doesn't always work out that well for me, and to be honest is often more trouble than it's worth. my life has generally been one where i make a stand on something, and people try to find ways to tear me from it and make me as bad as they are, or condemn me for my position and treat me as ann unworthy individual because of it. i'm not religious by any means, nor am i aetheistic, but i do believe in right and wrong. i am perfectly willing to go through life without friends, should i not be able to find anyone who demonstrates good character, doesn't use or abuse drugs, beat their kids/animals, harass people, spit on homeless, demonstrate racial intolerance, or any number of other things. i made that decision a long time ago, and try to be tolerant of people even should they act in a fashion i would choose not to. the only thing selfish about me, is that i want people to be better than they generally are. i'd also like, (for once), to actually make a reasonable wage, rather than plodding along earning less than your average stock boy for a job that requires technical skill, dedication, and efficiency to produce quality quickly consistently.i honestly don't expect to see much from the mt system at all, and i'm not even sure i'll continue playing eve for long. i'd like to try dust, but if it's a carbon copy of eve, with all the grind and bs from the community, i doubt i'll burn the money on a ps3 for that. especially considering i barely have the residual cashflow to pay for sub's for eve, and still have the ability to actually make an attempt at enjoying some small measure of life."
"my personal opinion of eve mt, which i think is broadly similar to most on the csm, is that vanity mt is fine, but there are second-order knock-on effects that need to be watched.the most obvious of these is plex prices. because plex are the only way to create aur, the demand for aur will increase the demand for plex, but the supply may not increase as much as the demand, and thus plex prices will go up. the most obvious victims of this will be people who fund their accounts by grinding isk.another concern is that the economic cycle ccp has introduced (isk/rl$->plex->aur->isk->plex->aur...) has cleverly kneecapped the simple arguments against non-vanity mt. for example, consider the following thought-experiment: what if a popular class of ship (say, t3) was only available for aur? because of the economic cycle, these ships still have an isk price -- someone somewhere is putting up the rl$, but it doesn't have to be you.the \"isk represents player labor\" arguments against non-vanity mt are interesting, but with the current economic cycle, the number of plex being purchased every month merely constrains the supply of mt items (of any type) and influences their isk price."
"thank you for taking the time to reply in this thread!!!!!!!the t3 example is interesting but if you break it down at current gtc/plex/ship pricing a tengu with just a t2 fit and 5 subsystems would cost approx. $26 usd. this is over 1.5 months of subscription fees spent on a ship.as you stated in your reply there is a huge potential for the price of plex to dramatically increase. an increase in plex pricing would make your $$$$ go farther and potentially make you want to spend more $$$ in the money store. i personnally believe ccp wants the price of plex to increase atleast another 25-50%. this will in turn drop the rmt cost of a billion isk and cut the profits of the rmt players/companies. while stopping rmt is important, it is not so important that ccp should put up the \"cone of silence\" and not reply to the concerns of the player base. combating rmt at the expense of your player base is also not the right thing to do. i fully support efforts to remove rmt from the game. i do not support removing it at the expense of the player base though. i also do not support ccp admonishing every rmter and then jumping on the bandwagon themselves in an effort to stop rmt... i am also glad that you have seen that ccp has already started \"kneecapping\" arguments against non-vanity mt. the concerning part is that they have stated for a very long time that they did not want mt in eve online. with the cq patch they have already reversed course and included vanity only mt. once again they stated they do not want game altering items in the money shop. by announcing full blown mt in dust and stating that dust will impact 0.0 sov mechanics they have taken another step towards preparing the eve player base for full blown mt in this game. this is a major concern to a lot of players in the community, especially those of us who been playing this game for 5+ years. we don't want to see what is the best space mmo turn into a dollar grabbing ads and a lack of development in favor of developing more rl $$$$ sinks. once again, thank you for replying to this thread and please share my concerns and those of the players that posted in the threads i listed with ccp."
"with recent news items on an alternate site quoting the mittani as \"giving a **** about rmt,\" the csm need not comment on this issue. leave it for those who do give a **** as the the csm has lost its credibility in this."
"how about some linkage of said comments?also, what one member of the csm states doesn't always reflect what the entire csm feels. it would be nice to see some other members of the csm post as well."
"no, i think trebor has got it about right, and you'll notice he states an opinion that is perfectly in line with how he has shown himself to think in the past. he's not blowing air up your skirt, just giving his honest opinion on an issue that is actually quite deep and sometimes very hard to measure in terms of potential impact. just looking at prices now, would make an player who relies on plex to add game time worry. personally, that amount of isk is worth more to me than 30 days of play, and i wouldn't waste it in that fashion. to be honest, it would very nearly bankrupt my character to do that. i'm also unlikely to sell plex at current prices for two reasons. i don't see the prices holding because i am absolutely convinced it's a false market, and i don't believe that buying and selling now would actually guarantee a sale. i also don't have the rl $$$ to spend on plex. whether it would be an investment or a complete waste of money is irrelevent in that regard.aur will have an impact, i don't doubt, but this is currently the result of pure market hype, fueled by threads just like this to drive the prices up even farther. it's kind of like superstition: if you think it's there, it really is, (to you), but it actually isn't. ideally the impact of aur will be on vanity items, and plex will impact the value of both, not the other way around. when people realise that a vanity item is just an item that makes you maybe look cool, then their value will drop. people will still want of course, but not nearly as badly when they realise they wasted their money on something completely superficial. the reality is, the aur purchases will drop and people will pick a couple affectations here and there, but never really get into it, unless they happen to be stupid rich. meaning without any regard for the value of money. that means 1-2 items per character, (main), on average unless they're relatively cheap, but in all cases this will be governed by the rl $$$ value of those items, or the isk used to purchase them in gametime/effort. that market will balance itself. the exception to this is items that impact the game, (should they be introduced), which is what vandrion seems to be afraid of. they would still have to be unique and unavailable by other means to create real impact, but they would."
"link 404. not to mention, that chat log isn't even credible.edit: haven't you figured out by now, evenews24 is kind of like globe magazine: they'll make a story out of anything."
"finally decided to come back did you?"
"plex even adheres to the investment of time and effort. somewhere down the line someone had to create the item that someone sold the plex to buy.......creating an item does not include entering your credit card and having said item appear in your hanger.here is one of my posts from a thread in general discussion:somewhere down the line of transactions, someone had to invest their time, skill and effort to earn that isk. money shops circumvent this and ultimately cheapen a game.here is one heck of an assumption/example for you ( for the love all things internet spaceship related i hope it never happens): what would happen if ccp decided to sell 1mil in skillpoints for the aur equivalent of $5?????? think about it....to head off the current character sales argument there is one big piece of the equation that is removed:someone had to invest the time to train the character being sold. it doesn't matter if they never undocked the toon. it doesn't matter if they never did anything but switch skills. it still took time, attention and effort from a player. the same can be said of selling modules in the mt store. you are removing the players and their connection to the game. selling items in the mt store only is very immersion breaking in this regard. a player wasn't involved in the following:training the skills to build the itemgathering the material to build the itembuilding the itemhauling the item to marketselling the item on the marketabsolutely no inclusion for the player. back in 2005 i mined the minerals for my first megathron in a .6 system in my vexor. when i had mined enough minerals to cover the cost of the high ends, i built the ship myself. the sense of accomplishment that came from doing all of this from start to finish was incredible. that sense of accomplishment is what kept me playing this game. from talking to other players over the years i have found that i am not the only one that has felt a great sense of accomplishment from doing certain things in eve. allowing someone to walk in and remove that sense of accomplishment by spending rl $$ kills a part of what eve is........"
"ok no for your idea...but thumbs up for discussion about a sub cap cap killer...i would much rather seethe heavy bombertech ii tier ii bcit uses citadel torpedoes (gets a bonus for rof and damage)covert ops cloakheavy bomb launcher (basically a much bigger bomb but has such a slow explosion velocity that only capital ships get hurt)"
"i should explain how i see this working out in practice, a fleet fight is going on supers are dropped and the enemy sub caps form a screen around the supers to try and block the missiles from hitting, the assault frigs warp in align speed towards the target at different vectors, they get to with in like 20km activate the mod, it cycles and after the cycle the missile fires off in a straight line and what ever it connects with takes a certain percent of structure damage.the assault frig shouldn't be useful for much else then doing this so can't add dps to a fleet fight, i like the idea of the weapon system being a blockable skill shot for the very reason to prevent spamming down ships too quickly but they have to do a dangerous amount of damage to be seen as a threat to super caps to deter super use with out a sub cap support fleet to counter them."
"the problem with ideas like this is that your new anti-supercap ships get priamried and killed and then you're just back to square 1, with the remaining subcaps still being worthless.it's a far better idea to make supercaps vulnerable to not just a single class of subcaps, but to all subcaps. that means removing tackle invulnerability and maybe ewar invulnerability too, and makign sure that the supercaps cannot effectively apply dps to the subcaps."
"can't disagree with you on that one. i think they should be effective, but there should also be a defense vs. it; and i don't mean a super cap or titan."
"perhaps buff eccm, but the falcon is pretty balanced right now. an annoyance, but one easily removed of. ecm drones are worse tbh.that said you really haven't proposed anything."
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images.image from:"
"guys falcons are not fine as they are and not balanced. how can you say that?you cant expect everytime to fit an eccm just incase you bump into a falcon. you would be fitting for every possible **** that might attack you. notreally viable is it.it annoys me when ppl say fit a mod to counter it. well as said you would fit a mod for a poss neut ship, or a tding ship or whatever its jus tnot possible.the fact is falcons permajam with no chance at all to do anything. you are instaf*cked. there was a post showing that this was true and the stats.even if you fit 1 eccm it does nothing, you have to at least fit 2 wtf. and again you cant expect to fit an eccm just on the off chance.the fact remains falcons are still way way overpowered. the can disco, they can permajam multiple targets. stupid! its simply not right.i dont have a solution im stating the issue. boost eccm ofc, and boost ship attribs that you must have at least 2 t2 jammers to have something like 80% jamming chance, 1 gives you say 50%.im sorry guys but go on sisi and test the falcon, and tell me if you can get out of a disco falcon. then tell me its fine."
"hint: exaggerating this badly just makes you look like a moron.no falcon is going to permajam multiple targets on anything like a regular basis unless you're all flying t1 frigates.(oh, and you're flying just the right racial combination for the jammers they have fitted.)"
"he probably flew a matar ship like 90% of eve and still whines here about other ships being op."
"yeah gotta say, it's a lot easier fitting the right racials where everyone flies hurricanes and angel ships >_>"
"when the first 6 words of your proposal are a demonstrable untruth, the rest is inevitably irrelevant."
"problem is not with the hulls but the mechanic. ecm needs to be rethought from scratch.chance based stun-lock with limited counters available is just fubar."
"stupid idiots are stupid let's get on sisi guys right now and prove who is rightotherwise stop trolling about something you know nothing abou"
"you really are a loser just like your fail alliance"
"we just got another usual high iq adult pro gamer who knows everything about pvp in eve, and with his all-knowing wisdom show us that the ship even he has trouble to counter is broken , and needs to be nerfed so he can continue his superior pvp we can just dream of."
"well i say it a again anyone willing to come on sisi and disprove me i am happy to show you...hmmm guess not then.."
"oc i always fit eccm on my ship when i undock, have self logistics at lvl10 can self rep with my 20 drones and have 2 dd on my cane with 15sec cd, i've trained hard for those but now i have answer to all situations and to every one @op yes the falcon is cheated yes lachesis and his little brother also at less extent, you don't see that much other wf ships around because those are the only that aloud you immediate superiority and instant gratification, now answer me: what is the game about?i'll give you the answer:a: any method giving you the superiority over your opponent is not overpowered it's a good game mechanic, you're just some noob that didn't understood the good lesson. train for it and use it, let noobs use other stuff, because noobs always use the bad option but shssss, don't tell them, keep it 4u."
"keep posting, r4nd0m, keep posting! :dand what do you want to show me on sisi? that you can fit smartbobms on falcon? that it is a ecm ship? (and why not on tq?)and what is your experience on using e-war? being once jammed and killed by falcon is not so much..."
"i support this in theory.however, the 2% per level already means t2 weapons are 10% more effective at lvl 5.also, your formula table is starting with a level 0 and finishing with level 4.2% at level 1 = 2%2% at level 2 = 4%2% at level 3 = 8%2% at level 4 = 16%2% at level 5 = 32%basically the bonus would double every level."
"where n is current level -1, is more practical and realistic. where n is current level leads to somewhat unrealistic results that would throw game balance for a serious loop."
"well, it would be more practical to lower the bonus itself:1.5^1=1.51.5^2=3.01.5^3=6.01.5^4=12.01.5^5=24.01.2^1=1.21.2^2=2.41.2^3=4.81.2^4=9.61.2^5=19.2another possible method is to create an elite skillset that is trainable after level 5, sort of like adv learning worked.torpedo specialization v = 10%elite torpedo specialization v = 10%+10%"
"i can see a cap of 20% working fairly well. i've thought of elite skills before too, but the training times would be aweful. i'd rather they just made each level worth the extra time investment, than that."
"well, elite skills don't necessarily have to be a higher rank than the skill they require. they could also give a different bonus. for example, large pulse laser specialization is a rank 8 skill (same as battleship) and gives 2% damage to tech 2 large pulse lasers per level. elite large pulse laser specialization might give an entirely different bonus, such as 2% rof (an 11.11% dps increase at lvl 5), or even an unprecedented double bonus of 2% rof and 10% reduced heat damage. the elite skill doesn't need to be rank 12 as the ccp skill tree tends to go with, but instead either a 25 or 50% decrease in sp need, rank 6 or even 4. the vast bulk of the sp is still in the tech 2 spec skill at a month to train for normally. adding another two or three weeks to train elite skill to v and you still have a credible time sink for a very specialized weapon system.elite skills could also be used for other things, such as elite energy management with another 2% cap capacity per level, elite em shield compensation with 2% more passive resist per level, etc.imagine elite gallente battleship adding 5% railgun optimal and 10% blaster falloff. or elite caldari battleship offering 5% missile velocity and 5% hybrid damage. at rank 4, but requiring bs 5."
"the best part of this idea: suddenly ship balance will be so much less important but seriously, i'd love to be able to get a stable fit without needed two level 5 implants, and nerfed dps/tank."
"i'm inclined to agree with this. as it stands, large pulse laser 5 just isn't something i'd even consider training. seriously, 45 days or whatever for an extra 20 dps on a 1000 turret dps bs just isn't a good use of skill training. i'd rather train t2 torps and give the raven a whirl for example. and i'm one of those who spent the 20d or whatever training surgical strikes to 5 for that extra 3% damage. in fact, that right there is the problem. if it only took 10-15 days to train large specs to 5, i'd probably do it. but between the small increase and the huge training investment, it just isn't worth it."
"yup, my bad, sorry!n = current_level - 1;i will update the post!"
"i'm sure everyone out there has been to a fast food place lately. and you've noticed how what used to be called a medium drink, is now a small. so when you make the mistake of ordering a large drink, expecting something you could hold with one hand, instead you are served a gallon of soda.meanwhile, here in the sci fi land of spaceships...if you wanted to shop for an armor repper for your battleship, you'd look for a large or heavy.if you wanted to get a capacitor battery for your cruiser, you'd look for a medium.if you wanted a pulse laser turret for your frigate, you'd look for a small... or would you?turns out quite a few turrets are off scale. in that \"medium\" fits on frigates, \"heavy\" fits on cruisers, and battleship sizes are anyone's guess.is there a particular reason why almost every other module fits the small/medium/large scale, but we still have several modules that clash?i'd like to see a simple naming convention \"fix\".frigates = small/lightcruisers = mediumbattleships = large/heavyi'm sure there are some synonyms we can toss in for good measure. but this way there won't be as much confusion over what fits on which ship."
"actually, they fit because the ships have powergrid/cpu to fit them. they are in fact designed for each class as per their names, but usually the smaller they are, the more pointless they are to fit. the only way to change it, is to restrict module sizes to ship classes they are intended to fit. unfortunately that would also severely nerf some well liked fits, and make even more ships entirely useless."
"local alternative:this is a very simple idea that i don't believe would require much work to implement and just adds functionality to an existing game mechanic while solving the \"press nothing: receive bacon\" status of local.after local is removed; the directional scan should recieve two simple buffs in order to help people know whether there are people near/around them.1) all active ships will show up as a blue/cyan font on directional scanner. simply put; currently when you directional scan you get a bunch of ships on your list but thees no way to tell whether they are piloted or not. well now the directional scanner will tell you.2) cloaked ships now show up on directional scanner.... but with a twist. if you directonal scan a cloaked ship it will show up as orange \"????????\". the new directional scanner will be able to tell you the current distance of a cloaked ship, but you will not be able to tell which direction the cloaked ship is coming from.basicly, a player should be able to set there scanner to any distance and the cloaked player will show up as \"????????\" but only when they are in range of the scan; also every scan (when it comes to cloaks) are treated as a 360 degree scan. even if a pilot narrows his scan to 30 degrees and aims it at the completely wrong direction the cloaked player will show up on the scan list. this will prevent a pilot from ascertaining the true position of a cloaked ship; but still let you know he's there (if you scan).one more thing: gate cloaks should not show up on the scan list at all. this is to make sure that people who jump into systems maintain their same level of relative safety they have during the 30 second gate cloak.and thats my idea.cross posted from fi, because no one reads fi anymore anyway."
"the issue with popup windows that have only 'ok' option to click to is that they freeze your whole ui until you click it away and thus have very little value (unless the value is to annoy crap out of people) in the game.instead make those information appear as normal message text as used in many other (server countdown timer, you have entered to blahblah space where criminals are not welcome) places - or better yet, make a configuration option for it if in fear that someone truly, truly loves that popup, but the rest of us can get rid of those.also the config option version removes the argument for the issue when the server is coming down and some want to be 'notified' by it when they come back from the toilet, but please, give the rest of us a break.thanks for your time,"
"1. cyno effects2. cyno effects3. ability to eat starcakes in captains quarters"
"why would the sovereign nations of eve allow ships that can spread large-scale destruction roam freely through their most populated star systems?especially when some are at war with each other currently?"
"you cant mine moon goo in high sec, therefore no reason to have dreads in high sec."
"dread's in highsec. you don't need moon goo to make this plausible. there are plenty of pos after all, and i'm sure they'd be much easier to take down with a nice dread. think of all those bpc farmers, and how they just continuously research and manufacture all the time. that's kinda like moon goo, and they have the ability to heavily impact the market while providing heavy competition for non-pos industrialists. reason for dreads? yes.not high on my priorities list, but it wouldn't bother me if it happened."
"lore? that hasn't mattered since 2005. all the more reason to provide a more effective method of killing enemy poses."
"if scs are not addressed, then dreads in highsec may not be such a bad idea. they've been rather marginalized in that respect. having them romp about high sec ... why not.of course if this happens, there will be hundreds of them roaming around high sec, some of them looking for tasty poses run by industrial people that could care less about pvp with guns.so, i would suggest that they could not enter seige mode in high sec. this will somewhat balance out the general nature of high sec activities with dread capabilities."
"not supported.why? imagine this as a neutral repper:[moros - repanaught][lows]damage control unit iienergized adaptive nano membrane iienergized adaptive nano membrane iipower diagnostic unit iicapital armor repairer icapital armor repairer i[mids]cap recharger iicap recharger iicap recharger iicap recharger iicap recharger ii[highs]capital remote armor repair system icapital remote armor repair system icapital shield transporter isiege module i[rigs]large capacitor control circuit ilarge capacitor control circuit ilarge capacitor control circuit i[drones]heavy armor bots ii x 5with all level 5 skills:- gets about 1.5 mil ehp with 73, 65, 65, 51 resistances.- local tank reps about 3.4k damage per second while in triage mode - can rep about 600 dps in armor and 300 in shields (plus drones).now that you have the image... add several more. capital ships, regardless of what their specialty is, are huge force multiplies and, in the absence of supercaps, require a fair bit of effort to take down... more than what your average nubbin is able to muster."
"alright, first of all, 16.5 km is not a really long range. locking yourself down to improve your local tank also disables any rr you might receive and i'd personally like to know how you got remote reps in the low slots."
"it's actually 15km for capital remote reps... but that's still far enough to rep any ship in the undock area. and the idea of the fit is that you give remote reps to ships while absorbing damage... not to receive them itself (unless you are thinking of \"pantheon\"/\"spider-tanking\" fits, in which case gl killing 3 or so dreds without a \"good number\" of battleships).also, the fit reads from low slots to high slots."
"well if you aren't using this...i can't say for sure, but i'm pretty sure your moros would cap out very fast trying to do all that. and with the limited range on the reps, in addition to being anchored, it won't be that useful overall."
"i dont realy see a problem with this you got my vote.but i would reather see them kick super caps out of low sec and let that be the main kicking grounds for none super caps."
"awful idea, neutral rr is bad enough but at least you can send them scurrying back into station with a little dps, try that with a neutral dread.if you can't take a pos down in hi sec, well tough, get more dps or friends, they are supposed to be difficult to take down.in null the moons have resources, creating conflict, in hi sec you have none.oh really, why is that? about 700 mill after insurance is peanuts compared to a full of technetium jf.the reason dreads are unpopular is because people are frightened of losing them, a 200 man dread fleet although not a counter could easily kill 10-15 supercarriers off field before they died, the isk value is around the same but they have a time advantage now, dreads are far easier and quicker to produce than supercaps.the reason you don't see dreads fielded is just through fear and not because they are not viable."
"can ask the exxact same question in reverse:is there any valid reason to allow them back?high-sec pos are almost exclusively used for invention as far as i have seen so the value of tearing them down is minimal.if you want to make them easier/safer to knock down then just double the fitting requirement of all pos mods if in 0.5+.for logistics purposes i can see them making a re-entry, but it would be without being able to activate capital mods while there (ie. travel only)."
"while i agree that you should get more use out of your dread, your suggestion that it will actually help small alliances is laughable. dreads can be built in .4 space, out of reach from pos bashing mega alliances. any alliance in empire that has the isk to build a cap fleet, can do so with ease and in safety. small alliances would actually be the most victimized here as they try to build assets for an eventual cap fleet only to have privateers, orphanage or any number of high sec pvp wannabes, use their own dreads to either extort them into poverty or pound them into submission.not supported"
"stupid idea ,if you want to take down a pos gather a fleet then.this change would make it impossible to any small corp to hold a pos at all.tell me what could a 10 or less member corps could do vs 10+ dreads+support , like nothing,as only they could fight due to concord would def the dread fleet vs anybody who isnt wardecked."
"let's be realistic. the meta capital mods cost somewhere in the range of several hundred million isk. the base version costs a paltry 30 to 50 mil. which are you more likely to see?with level 5 skills it caps out in 1 minute 32 seconds. but that's only if you are running absolutely everything. while in triage mode a dred gets a bonus to local armor repping amount so you only have to pulse those armor reps every now and again.plus, most station campers just want to be kept alive long enough to deaggro and dock up when the situation turns on them. this kind of dred with its massive ehp \"wall\" will greatly assist in that (it can't be forced out of the fight).and yeah... i made a mistake on the fit (typed it out manually). still, you know to what i was referring to."
"only purpose of dreads in highsec are nub highsec wars and neut repping. so no thank you"
"or just disable capital remote reps on anything not also fitting a triage module.it is not a matter of ability.if you find a jf full of anything that actually sticks around long enough to be targeted by a dread, you could have killed it with a destroyer blob.so what are the dread pilots flying? carriers and supercarriers. if you had a choice between a hel/nidhoggur and any dread, would you realistically choose the dread? no, why would you? the hel/nid are considered the worst of the carriers in general. yet nobody would choose any of the dreads over either of them for normal pvp operations.do you have any evidence of that? dreads cost much more than carriers and carriers are just as vulnerable, yet i never see a shortage of carriers.yes.that doesn't mean there is no value in it. some people do things for rp and not necessarily isk.i actually want them to be harder to knock down. thus the dreads. dreads will force poses to be stronger and better defended.maybe and maybe not. but doing that for dreads only wouldn't make sense since they would still be relatively useless.no, not really.if they can't handle that, then they will be slaughtered in low/null anyway. i'd consider it a test of will and practice for the 'real' thing."
"hardly, there are countless poses in low sec that have nothing to fear. why would hi sec be so much more dangerous?well, it isn't impossible to defeat that. but if someone is going to run a pos valuable enough to be a target, you better be able to defend it yourself. i have no pity for people who deliberately avoid taking responsibility for their own safety."
"in low-sec most pos are in big alliances alt posession , and anybody can counter drop a dread fleet anytime without a need for wardec --> ppl dont attack pos just to kill it / small money income.with your idea ,in high sec nothing could threaten the dread fleet due to wardec is needed , i'm sure you would be a pussiest player fielding your alli dreads in high sec when you are wardecked by a larger alli, who could easily counterdrop you.you would just wardec small corps and kill their posses knowing that they cant do anything at all to save it. if they want help their friends have to wardec you first-> plenty time to ***** hide your dreads ,what is that if not the biggest deliberately avoidance taking any kind of risk?i know you are just another \"pirate\" wannabe who wants to blow things up without any risk involved. hiding it behing some capital balance+ rp thing..."
"i appreciate that all you poor dread pilots out there are saddened at your ships being made almost completely redundant by supercarriers, but i don't think this is the way forwards. if supercarriers are nerfed a bit (especially in their pos-bashing capacity) there'll be much more for you to do."
"of course it is, in whatever security space you are in, you use the tools available, there are plenty of pos in hi sec that get blown up.do you actually know how to stop someone from warping away, a corp mate can bump it so it never aligns.you do realise that most dread/supercap pilots are alts and not the players main.if the nc had called for all dread pilots to get on and suicided fleets into the supercap blob when they were attacked the enemy would have no means to replace them to carry on momentum, as it said it takes balls and a good reimbursement policy but it takes 2 weeks to rebuild a dread and you can make them in stations, so a very cost effective way to beat a supercap blob."
"so in order to cater to the 0.5% of the population (high-sec rp corps) you want to give the 99.5% remaining (griefer corps) a free ride?as much as i want rp to matter more than it does, i am not willing to chop off my limbs and sell my organs to get it.once you allow for cynos you allow carriers and dreads in both .. didn't think that needed saying, but 'meh' the whole trend of bigger/more being better is sucking the fun out of the game and should be discouraged in all areas. kicking caps out of high-sec was the best things that has ever happened for \"real\" pew in that sector since their introduction .. partially been replaced by neutral rr abuse and other shenanigans but at least the playing field is relatively even."
"you should be wary of making assumptions. they tend to make you look foolish.well to be honest, the dread buff i proposed first was far more interesting and went far more to actually fixing them.that statement was in response to the allegation that dreads in hi sec is being proposed because i can't kill a pos today, which is false.i wasn't aware you could bump it from jumping.yes, and what the frack do you think those alts do when they aren't giving away dread killmails?i am aware of the theoretical superiority of the dreadnought blob over the supercarrier blob."
"has it not occurred to you that griefer corps might not be willing to take the risk that they will lose these dreads? ccp has indicated that it is possible to discriminate explicitly which ship can and can't use a certain cyno.capitals were a mistake from the beginning. but they are not going away.hi sec's existance is the main problem with pvp in general"
"this is about the principle of spamming contracts in local.we all know spamming when we see it and posting a contract once is not the issue, it is the posting it every few minutes we see in the major hubs.i leave it up to the csm/ccp to discuss how often is considered spamming."
"i do, ccp only has so much money and i'd rather them spend it on the problems before the annoyances. you also have the option of blocking offenders yourself if you must look at that horrible channel. laugh with glee as you nuke them on your on."
"technically, preventing the pasting of contract links into local would be a trivial implementation."
"+1contract scam spammer spotted."
"laser aren't like normal ammo, so i find it alright as it is. however i always found it strange that when the last charge has been fired you have to wait 1 full empty cycle + reload time. you'd think that the ordnance system would know there's nothing left and should get to reload right away. that's the most irrational thing i can see concerning ammo reload."
"easy answer is to discard your damaged crystals before it becomes a problem. you don't have to reload at all otherwise, so you never lose the 10 seconds every cycle that that entails. it's not like crystal have a 10 minute lifespan, they last for ages and then they crap out and die...and yes, other races do have to load up on 4000 rounds of faction ammo every time they go out and do something aamrr, or were you forgetting that they have to put all that in cargo, carry it around, and every shot uses it up."
"to prevent abuse and keep the penalty of reload time consistant for everything (except lasers of course). if it were the case that reloading literally only ever took 10 seconds after the last shot was fired, i'd slap some artillery on any battleship with 8 turret hardpoints, put all my ammo inside a can, and split out and reload my guns with stacks of 8 for every shot. fairly sure it'd be pretty brokenly overpowered. that and this would benefit weapons with longer durations in general, as a reload would essentially cause them to fire relatively faster, and in the case of large artillery... just plain faster."
"4000 rounds? maybe. 4000 rounds per turret? hell no. i don't know anyone that purchases 32,000 rounds of faction ammunition for their artillery maelstrom, but that is precisely what every apocalypse or abaddon pilot has to do for every type of crystal they bring to pvp, simply because you cannot purchase them in smaller quantities.and discarding mostly-damaged crystals does not solve the problem i described in my original post."
"wouldn't be that much faster as you would still have to wait for cycle completion to shoot again.1400's have 20 rounds and they take about 20-30s per shot, so you stand to gain 10s for every 6-10 minutes if reload could be done from the moment it empties (during cycle) .. not worth the insane amount of micromanagement in my world"
"i think you've missed the point of my proposal. i never mentioned anything about the reloading that occurs when you run out of ammunition. all i'm asking is that when you issue a command to change ammunition that it's smart enough to handle the command appropriately when you're firing at something. (finish the current cycle, spend time reloading if it's not a laser, and resume fire.)"
"you wouldn't be willing to double your damage by reloading every shot? i bow to your laziness."
"new pve lowsec-only content would help. such lowsec missions must:scale with the number of ships on-grid.be of shorter duration.be as rewarding to grinders as hisec l4s - no more, no less.be best completed in pvp fit ships.use a sensible (sleeper/sansha) ai and change targets.not involve standing penalties for failure, regardless of whether or not they produce standing bonuses for success. it would be nice if some of those missions were for pirate factions, too."
"problem is with pirates nothing else, when 10+ \"i'm a pirate\" wannabes ganks my solo cyno frig you can see there is something bad with their playstyle.they shot anybody without thought, no matter how valuable the cargo is , there is no consequences at all other than gate guns shooting, and they cant \"enter\" high sec not that they would want to at all.pirating is dull!if you want more ppl in lowsec then pirating should be made harder."
"title says it all; we need more supers in game.why?supercarriers exist as the next thing beyond carriers, currently beyond a dread is only a titan. this isn't right.make these ships similar to titans in that they use 6-7 capital weapons each, but they don't have to siege to get the full dps. keep the dps inline with a titan (minus the dd), and keep the ehp exactly the same as a supercarrier. this will provide an alternate option instead of forcing players into a supercarrier while still giving something for high end players to achieve. as with the inability of a supercarrier to triage, make these ships unable to use a siege module.i would imagine a fair base price would be around 30bil for a bpo with the min cost being 1.5x that of a sc. keep a similar slot layout to a titan, with perhaps 1 less mid and low and maybe only 1 utility highslot. use the existing dreadnaught skill, as supercarriers use the carrier skill. make it like any other supercap, with no ability to dock but immune to ewar and standard tackling. give it the dread jump range.why is this a good thing?-supercarriers use lots of drones, this creates massive amounts of lag. guns don't create as much lag.-one reason supercarriers are powerful is their ability to spidertank while doing 8-10k dps (depending on type), a superdread won't have that ability.-these would be useful for hit and run pos reinforces, as well as hotdropping lone caps.-these are still less cost effective than dreads in terms of the amount of dps you can output for the isk cost.-these allow an option for supercaps to take on battleship fleets without lagging the server to hell with fighters.-these reduce the blob, supercaps offer a way for an alliance to counter blobs of battleships or battlecruisers, if these were turret fit they'd be very effective against large amounts of low skill players in cheap ships.one of the main reasons i would like to see a ship like this is that the only real \"combat\" type of turret based ship that comes after battleships is the titan. a dreadnaught does very little dps outside of siege, is unable to receive remote reps in siege, and outside of tower shoots is fairly useless. the advent of high dps supercarriers with fighterbombers and the change in the sov system have made dreads useless for all but reinforcing towers, as supercarriers will quickly eliminate siege'd dreads, and a siege dread can't hit anything smaller than a capship. this is also a reason to train capital turrets up, as if you can't afford an 80bil titan these things are prettymuch useless.the other thing is that this gives ccp the opportunity to add a new class of combat ships, something unseen since the arrival of t3s (and the supercarrier changes, to an extent). we all love cool new ships, especially big ones that become a long term goal to train for."
"thumbs up excellent topic would post again all my 5s aaa+ grade idea"
"juggernauts have been suggested a few times."
"first i thought you were incredibly stupid but i re-read \"we need more supers in game.\" and realized you were trolling.2/10"
"so these ships would have an advantage over sc-s being less laggy, while having no fighters/bombers less drones cost more + no corp hangar+ship bay no remote rep or ecmthat sounds realy balanced to me"
"super dreads? they're called titans"
"when: 18:00 eve time, 11/04/2012where: jb-007what: superdread roamshiptypes: superdreads > cyno rapiers!!!!111 > triage archons > hics > indies with isotopes > everything else"
"x - drake"
"x - chaos"
"so, i was watching the alliance tournament and had something like this thought: \"why aren't there more formal pvp events other than the alliance tournament?\" with that in mind, i've developed an idea for a potential second formalized pvp event: the eve online premier league. it would work much the same way as the football premier league in england, with different divisions based on pvp skill that teams can be relegated from or promoted to. tournament style pvp rules would be used, the difference being the championship is decided not by a single tournament, but a longer series of matches against the teams in the same division, much like sports such as baseball, basketball, or football (the kind where you actually use your feet a lot otherwise known as soccer). additionally, teams in the premier league would not be restricted to being formed by a single alliance--any corp with sufficient resources can enter a team. as such, the matches might need to decrease in scope of the number of ships per team to accomodate corps over a long period of time, rather than whole alliances over a short period of time. there could potentially be a \"playoffs\" at the end of the premier season as well, though this would be optional.as this is my very first ever proposal to the csm, any and all feedback that anyone can give me will be greatly appreciated."
"so the issue in my corp right now is that some of the more advanced members are getting annoyed because they're contributing 150k per mission into corp tax, while the newer players are averaging about a tenth of that, which isn't fair because the new guys are the ones who get the biggest advantage from our corp wallet with starter cruisers/retrievers, ship replacement, etc.i'd like to see tax options that give ceo's the ability to set specific tax for certain different things, mainly for the different levels of missions, maybe mission types as well.another thing that i think is long overdue as an option aside from corp tax is corp dues. this could be in the form of a monthly or weekly bill to the members, and be even across the board, unlike taxes are now, as an alternative way for members to contribute to the wallet."
"in addition to this, ccp could add in a tax evasion mechanic in which the wealthy don't have to pay any taxes at all.i've always wanted my corporation to be america, after all."
"i support this!"
"could also institute welfare. give a bonus 50% mission reward for l1/l2/l3 missions from the corp wallet."
"i mean, it'd be simple. just make sure the character has over 1bil isk in their wallet, and then they not longer have to be taxed. none of this pesky tax stuff, since they're rich, see?"
"endercapitalg for csm!"
"also, you could have unemployment.if you've not done missions for a while, you get paid 50 percent of what you were making every tick for a couple of weeks while you spin ships in your hangar."
"i support this man, 150%!especially on the unemployment thing. that would be fantastical."
"i mean, sometimes i don't feel like logging in, right? why shouldn't i get paid isk, as i pay for my account, right?"
"or you could make the unemployment coincide with real unemployment and you get paid a plex a month to still be able to play eve.one word sums it up: brilliant."
"follow goonies advices, set 20% tax for every one and rent high sec belts for a few millions per month then also rent some stations and planets. was forgetting anomalies but this is the extra for those renting all the system.this will aloud you to change your side when war turns bad and have enough isk in your wallet to play lotteries."
"supporting more/better tax options which are a good idea for the horror that is options and customization of the corp ui. i'd add options for either 'classes' or based on time period, members for less than 6 months one tax, over 6 months another tax rate, etc. any corp tax rates or brackets should be easily visible and 'checkable' to members so they can easily see they fall in tax bracket x instead of standard rate y or bracket z. changes to tax rates/brackets should also take at minimum 24hrs to prevent ceo/director abuse changing rates while people are in the process of missioning/ratting. the standard corp wide tax w/o brackets should remain the same only the additional brackets that override or replace the standard tax need that delay.just on the issues you've mentioned you should educate your 'advanced' members and tell them to stop complaining the new guys earning under 100k aren't putting as much in as they are with their millions of isk bounties/mission payout. new players are an investment either you and yours are committed to helping them out, meaning putting time, effort and isk to support and grow them or you aren't. complaining about the new players not putting in the same isk as older, more experienced, and capable players is pathetic. it also helps breed animosity in the corp, you put up with that and these 'advanced' members obviously don't share the corp vision of growing/supporting your new members or the whole 'team' effort. why you allowed or want people in your corp that don't share the corp culture is beyond me, people in your corp should mostly believe in the same things.not supporting corp 'dues' this seems like poor leadership/enforcement of the corp vision. if you expect people to pay to be part of your corp then demand it and if they don't pay they get booted, if they want back in you charge them plus a fine for re-hiring them in the corp they have to pay to be part of. corp dues are better made in the form of corp ops where you require members participate at least x times a month, giving ample opportunities for people to make the op since people have different schedules."
"wealthy pay taxes... when they make money."
"so like a moron i used \"evelopedia\" to read up on a radar site, central guristas sparking transmitter, before actually entering the site. the lack of information provided in the eve wiki caused me to get my ship popped. i decided to add the spawns not mentioned in the article and it seems i'm not allowed to do this. i went to the \"discussion\" tab and there's nothing there and i can't post any comments either.so, either make the evelopedia more user friendly so we can actually update some of the very poor articles or just get rid of it altogether. that way players can look elsewhere for information instead of relying on a half-assed attempt at a wiki."
"ask your friend to light the cyno with thier main, or use a cyno generator. (make sure you do that unscouted btw)"
"might be a little late, but it seems kinda ridiculous that this isn't an option. even if they're using the \"genetic\" tack, this is the future! there oughta be some dye, right?<---hence the baldness, lol."
"+1i can understand having limits on sculpting chars to stop all the races looking the same... however there is no good reason for stopping people having any hair colour they like.also, long hair for the male intaki (+ anyone else that wants it)"
"fix blonde too. take a blonde character and add a beard/mustache and it looks like someone painted on your face with a oily marker. the alternative being to give yourself a black or dark brown beard. and yes, i missed the darker hair color options for all those races that lost them."
"supported. i miss raven-haired kokobear."
"thanks"
"pot meet kettle.have you ask vuk where the money is? go visit on of his internet cafes and enjoy the place. you just might see what rmt has done for him. also tell him i said good luck on that whole court thing for tax evasion. seriously, how much money do you have to get from rmt to get busted for that??"
"this means i could run all my alts and get kill rights, then have plenty of km's with my main char?"
"i consider the motivation of blobbing to be partially independent of high minded virtues such as one volley kills. if there is a surplus of available pilots, odds are they will blob.but wait, you're saying this is reducing the capability of blobs because they would need to bigger to be equally effective! the increased survivability of brute force tactics, such as an alpha fleet, would create longer lasting combat allowing greater use of tactics and strategy (i.e.: logistics, ew, retreating, etc.). this would (slightly) balance out numbers by allowing a more practiced fleet to handle a larger brute force fleet. i'm still not convinced"
"it would also make it even harder to break a decent logistics team. you'd need more ships, or the logistics in your opponent's fleet would have a much easier time of repping the ships hit with split dps than they would if it all hit the same one. on top of that, you'd probably make it impossible to take down caps with subcaps."
"i honestly dont see the problem with ecm atm, their great at allowing smaller fleets to engage larger fleets(to an extent and depending on the enemy's ecm ofc), as their a great force multiplier. yes it can be annoying if you come up against a fleet the same size with say 3 times as many ecm as you, but at the same time you can say that about logistics too lol. - decus"
"hmmm, i'm going to have to mull this over a bit. sure, the easy solution in eve is always adding more ships, but what i'm more concerned with is how it would balance outside of that variable. i mean, now not only are you diluting your dps with logistics ships but this kind of ship as well (methinks making it a high-slot now might work better). it's the part on subcaps vs caps that i think you got me stuck, especially since i haven't found a way to deal with multiple ships protecting the same ship via 'the module.' i could just abstractly say only one per targetted ship, but there isn't currently an in game mechanic for that, is there? in the case of a single ship, yeah, the combined dps typically focused on a cap ship would easily overwhelm the defensive capabilities of 'this module' in most likely one volley, leaving 'the moduled' ship defenseless. ...beginning to get convincedin no way do you feel ecm is overpowered in comparison to the other ew? in all honesty i do kinda like ecm too, but...alright, keep up the criticism!"
"cosmetic only, i also want amarr slave dogs as pets for my incarna avatar"
"heck no"
"no"
"just no."
"bump.....and on a side note, jessica autumn, im in love with your avatar"
"supported.i have serious doubts that my laptop can handle it in its current iteration. a bug free cq will probably run fine, but really now. when was the last time ccp released anything bug free?"
"pointless *******s, if i wanted to walk i would go outside. i want more spaceships and fittingsinappropriate comments removed. zymurgist"
"i support making the cq optional. let us dock into the normal hanger and then go to the cq only if when want to!!"
"supported and i think torps and hams should get f.o.f missles aswell but thats just imo.scorpionidae"
"edit: pirate faction isntead of all faction ships.speaking of low hanging fruit... proposal: treat pirate faction ships as t2 ships for entrance requirements into fw plexes. doing this one simple thing will make t1 frigs, t1 destroyers, and t1 cruisers relevant again, and will allow lower sp (poorer) players to be competitive in an arena originally designed to allow them to have a chance."
"i know what you are trying to do and agree with it on some level, but it will have unintended consequences (at least for me and mine (amarr only)).no minor would ever see a frigate, it will be all destroyers all the time.all mediums would be flooded with caracals, ruptures and bbs .. simply because nothing comes close in efficiency.\"faction\" would also include the navy hulls which were made for fw so it becomes a 'one step forward, two back' type of thing (hint: exclude navy and you got my support )"
"i agree make it so only pirate faction ships are treated as t2. otherwise i fully support this idea - anything to make plexing \"fairer\" for those that can't afford the fancies. it won't fix plexing by any means but its a good start."
"excluding navy frigates gives you rp consistency but doesn't actually solve the problem - a fight between a plain t1 frigate and a decent faction frig is going to be every bit as stupidly unbalanced as a fight between a plain t1 frigate and a dram or af (and, from a roamer's perspective, it'd still be annoying to be out in an af or intie and see a comet or firetail or w/e hiding out in a plex i couldn't get into). i'd far rather have the minors broken out into two tiers - one that admits only plain t1 frigate hulls and one that will admit *any* frigate or destroyer hull, t1, t2, or (pirate) faction."
"i can't win. personally i would rather see all faction ships treated as t2, but the cold hard facts are that while navy faction frigs are a bit overpowered, the navy cruisers are not (especially the lower tier cruisers). nobody will say a navy vexor is better than an ishtar. ok, somebody might, but they'd be lying. and the navy exe sucks.however, pirate faction ships are better across the board than their t2 counterparts and should definitely be bumped up to t2 levels w.r.t plex entrance requirements."
"i hate how the good ideas tend to drown... throwing out the life ring."
"yes it does."
"all you had to do was read the post above yours but i will repost the part you missed:to head off the current character sales argument there is one big piece of the equation that is removed:someone had to invest the time to train the character being sold. it doesn't matter if they never undocked the toon. it doesn't matter if they never did anything but switch skills. it still took time, attention and effort from a player."
"sure, but not the player who bought it. they stepped into a 14-day trial, subbed, plexed, and bought a character with anywhere between 4 and 100 million sp because they could. they probably went out after that, plexed again, bought 3 cap ships, 2 orca's, 5 cnr's, and a ton of faction modules too match. they didn't work for any of it in-game."
"this is false. someone in the past had to spend time to make that character, even if they never undocked, that character was trained over time. that character evolved through normal game mechanics, even if they never undocked. in the most obvious terms, someone had to go earn the isk to pay for that character's skill books.perhaps that character was a subscribed account or a plexed account. it doesn't matter. when someone uses plex to buy isk, to buy that character, the isk used to do the purchase of the character was also earned in the game. someone spent their time and effort to gather that isk. they went out, played the game, took the risks and got the rewards. two things created in the game by in-game means are being exchanged, a character and isk. the external factor that facilitated the trade was the plex, but the plex in no way impacted the potential productive capacity of the in-game world.mt is not like this. someone purchases a plex for $cash and aurumifies it, buys a mt gizmo and then sells that for isk. the only means for that gizmo to enter the game is the $cash. no in game effort, time or risk was expended to create it.personally, so long as it is just some vanity thing i could really care less, but it is when and if a useful functional element is introduced, that has no other source other than $cash, we have a problem. if this happens, the overall productive capacity of the in-game world is directly impacted and influenced by forces that can not be initiated by in-game means. this will happen with dust, it is a logical certainty by all accounts of the tid bits of information we are able to get at this time. how much impact it has, we'll just have to wait and see."
"i honestly have no problem with dust using mts, since its ftp (at least as far as i'v come to understand)."
"problem is that dust is going to impact our 0.0 sov mechanics which by proxy is allowing rl mt to do what ccp has said they won't. it will allow rl mt in eve.. one universe//one war.not to mention at the rate ccp is going it won't take much for them to flip the switch and do it full blown in eve."
"fair point.however, we don't know how dust players will effect sov. we just know they will. their effect could be a minor one, such as slightly improving (well, in the negative direction) truesec. or it could be something major. we don't know yet, and when eve players don't know something, they tend to make a lot of worst case theories."
"whatever the impact will be no matter how minor, it will have an impact on eve game play. this directly conflicts with ccp's statement regarding $$ for advantage in eve. the worst part of it all is that it does open the door, ever so slightly, for ccp to bring a money store crashing in to eve proper. based on the upcoming vanity mts and the lack of ccp response in the feedback threads (they made them just for this purpose) to address the community's concerns it would appear that we are heading down the road to money stores in eve. no confirmations... no denials..... no explanations........ bad combo"
"t3's were just used as a placeholder in the example; their cost is irrelevant, the point is that items in the virtual goods store have both a aur and isk price.economic interactions, even in a simplified case like the eve economy, are maddeningly complex. whether incarna translates into a plex price spike or a collapse, increased volatility or a slow movement, or some bizarre combination is entirely unclear. my impression is that the good dr.e would prefer that whatever happens, it happens relatively slowly.i share your concern on the abstract level. but ccp is a business, and the point of that business is not to produce the best space mmo evah, it is to make lots of money. if that can be done by making the best space mmo evah, great -- but never forget that doing so is a means, not an end.this is not to say that everyone at ccp is a soulless money-sucking leech, as individuals they are not (except for ccp flying scotsman, but hey, he's scottish, he can't help it). in the abstract, they too want to make the best space mmo evah. but while we play in eve, they have to live in the real world and put food on the table.so if you truly think that mt is horrible, then you need to help the csm make good arguments as to why not doing something (like non-vanity mt), or doing something else instead, is going to put more isk in hilmar's secret underground money playpit."
"i appreciate you following this thread!there are several good arguments against mt (vanity or non-vanity. i will mention 2:1- loss of subscriptions. the threads are full of people stating they will quit if mt goes beyond vanity only. is this just emorage? maybe but i know that i will take a long hard look at leaving the game myself if non-vanity mt happens. no you can't has my stuffz!would the $$ generated by mt balance this out in the long run or would it only be a short term boost?will adding mt attract new customers?more importantly will these be the type of customers that will be interested in doing the time consuming things you have to do in eve? sov grinding, standing griding, isk grinding, market trading, even travelling through the universe can be very time consuming. eve is not an instant gratifaction game. you have to work for your happiness....lolwill these new customers be the ones that are dedicated enough to actually train a character real time or will they emorage quit because they can't power level overnight?2- mt even vanity items are immersion breaking. below is a snipet from my earlier postthe same can be said of selling modules in the mt store. you are removing the players and their connection to the game. selling items in the mt store only is very immersion breaking in this regard. a player wasn't involved in the following:training the skills to build the itemgathering the material to build the itembuilding the itemhauling the item to marketselling the item on the marketabsolutely no inclusion for the player. removing player inclusion in the process also removes the players ownership and sense of accomplishment in the results. eve isn't about having an easy button. eve is about reaping the rewards of your effort.if hilmar has to fund his underground money playpit then:raise my subscription price by $1-$2 dollars a month. i would pay a bit extra on each of my accts to keep mt away. the crack addict must have his crack!"
"i appreciate the business argument, but you are forgetting one thing here. we're not talking about just any business, or a game design studio with a seperate publisher, or even a company which has multiple services active and in balance. we're talking ccp here.throughout the years, i am sorry to say (and i can understand this may bite a little bit) ccp has increasingly decreased the strength of its brand integrity towards customers. that it has managed to maintain that integrity on a publishing and presentation level, is a given. that is fine. ultimately however, there is more to business than just the sale. and this is a tradition of fixation which ccp have created for themselves. if they were selling cans of soup - retail - i would not worry. but it's a service, and ccp has ample precedent of simply saying one thing and doing its own thing.that is ccp's prerogative, obviously. that does not mean it should not worry the current customer. nor does it mean that it should not worry the john or jane doe ccp staff member below the executive. there is this fun little argument of hiding the cost of sales throughout divisions and ventures, yet at the end of the day cost of sales is just one factor faced when engaged in an ever faster going cycle of replacing elements of a customer base. don't get me wrong, that is normal, but the speed and various costs of it should be monitored. ccp's metrics there, public and as we have seen over the years internal, does not give any credence nor confidence there.i'm sorry. but where it comes to the strategic direction and the necessity to balance that step by step in conceptualisation and research on product development ccp is starting to drop the ball. do not misunderstand this for some sort of slippery slope point of presence. that is not the case. on the contrary. it is becoming clear, that in spite of a lot of words and fancy talk, ccp on a strategic level does not just do what it does for strategic reasons. in many parts, the strategic objectives are ok, but the underlying argumentation is absent. and thus :lolexecution:no, i know, there's a lot of presentation that it is there. but please forgive me for saying this, but unfortunately ccp has built up a nearly reflexive tradition rooted in only a few parts of its organisation where the only validation ultimately needed is \"awesome\". regardless of the cost for customers, staff, short term, long term, and so forth. think of the technical debt, it is not the only type of debt which exists.as for csm, i am sorry. considering the statements of mr mittens in regards to rmt, and considering its modus operandi, i just cannot see this csm even asking any tough questions whatsoever. this csm neither will nor can do much as its chairman in collusion threw out its instrumentation. csm6 is not a democracy, it's a cheerocracy at gunpoint of troll and spam.it should be clear by now, that ccp as a company has long decided to change the functioning model beneath eve. that they do not see this from an internalised view, is clear. considering ample precedent it is however also unfortunately quite likely that they just do not give much about it at all. in spite of the love and care of those who actually work on the product eve. a year ago a lot of people, including folks in mainstream and industry media expressed concern about ccp's strategic views on the question of \"what to do with eve\" and equally expressed concern over how ccp was stretching itself. not in size of company, but in absence of simple processes, best practices, realism between presentation and delivery, and across a multitude of projects for which eve continues to function as just something that feeds cash and shares resources.it is becoming clear now. eve, is just only a topic for cash. understandable, but that does mean that the baby is dead. and yes, it also means that the old disconnects internal are rapidly coming back in force."
"no sane person uses shield boosters/repairers on transport ships, so none trains this skill beyond level 1. wouldn't bonuses like this be more useful and actually encourage players leveling this skill beyond level 1?+x% warp speedor+x% to all shield/armor resistancesor +x% agilityor +x% velocityor other things which would increase the transport ability."
"yes, i too would like a fleet of cruiser sized dreads that fit through a wormhole to terrorize the neighbours pos with."
"just introduce the concept of the kamikaze.introduce \"micro explosives\".- fill cargohold and ram the target (detonation goes off when server gets call to calculate vectors, ie. da bump).- make it so unstable that any ship-to-ship contact makes it go boom! and the obvious mass spam of them is automagically balanced out.suicide jf to take out a titan!"
"load freighter, undock from jita. boom."
"your talking about somthing thats only real use would be against ships you dont see in high sec, so make the bombs major illegal cargo, cause hell, it would make sense concord and the empire would try and stop someone flying a massive bomb through their territory, kinda like how they dont want titans and whatnot going through, so there, hi sec jita problem solved, mostly (still, i think an orca could smuggle them in in corporate hold, or is that also customs susceptible?), an the onl time frienly fire would happen is if you had a moron undock when you (hopefully) announced you were undocking with a bomb, and if that was the case, he would be a dumbass and doesnt need to be in a corp."
"concord can remotely disable cloaks, i am sure they can have dampening field to avoid accidents"
"i'd say give it to destroyers. they already don't get enough love, they need the boost."
"please indicate on the doll where the falcon violenced your boat.and next time fit some eccm"
"agreed!"
"@op: i hear a session change breaks all jams always. since most engagements (for me anyways) happen on gate/station try jumping/docking. i have never encountered a disco falcon - ever. they are also paper thin and have little in the way of dps. they trade"
"exactly, i agree here.lets put our money where our mouth is and do it on tq. i'll 1v1 your falcon, you sure arent gonna backpedal on me, right?"
"mr r4nd0m talks out of his 4r53"
"not supported - it gives too big of an advantage to older players. you get diminishing return for your investment the farther up you go. this makes it so that you don't get the huge dichotomy between older players and newer players. you spend 1/5th of the time for 80% of the benefit - tbh this is part of why i like eve as opposed to games like wow where abilities go up exponentially the longer you play."
"that's the whole point of this system. as you advance trough the game, every extra sp is much less significant then it used to be, which is what allows new players to catch up, or close enough to it anyway since at that point the really old vets are spending a month on 2% for a single weapon type."
"you may be right, but i still think vet's should have a leg up, without needing an officer fit nightmare to get it. plain fact: skills should mean something. a 5 year old toon properly trained should outstrip a newb, rather than die to 3 vs. 1 odds against 2 week old charaters.edit: likely this would also make a difference in how many supercaps and caps were fielded vs. subcaps in nullsec. if having a very well trainined battleship actually meant something, more people would continue flying them, instead of needing a supercap to make 1 vs 1 odds seem good."
"why?the vets advantage lies in having a very big arsenal of ships to choose from so he can pick the best ship for the job, his experience and skill and the wealth he has accumulated during the years."
"i'm reasonably certain that medium beam lasers were not designed for cruisers. this is a contributing factor to eve's learning curve, so you can expect people to defend it like rabid dogs in the name of \"not dumbing things down.\" as such, i wouldn't expect any luck with this otherwise reasonable petition."
"if you take away the ability to fit an extra large shield booster on my maelstrom i will thump you.in all due seriousness, the names are more like guidelines. i see them as a way for new players to quickly identify modules that should work with the ship they've chosen, nothing more."
"exactly, i mean, just because the sign says no diving in the shallow end, does taht mean if i try some wall will pop up with \"can't let you do that!\" written on it? i don't think so, if i wann put something over or udersized on my death-cruiser or lol-frig, i will."
"the amount of reading comprehension failure contained within most of the above replies is astounding.he's talking about how strange it is that small pulse lasers are actually named 'medium pulse laser i', while for every other module in the game 'medium' means medium. beam lasers are oddly-named the same way. there's also the same thing where medium blasters/lasers are named 'heavy' but several large things are also named 'heavy'. he's proposing more consistency in naming things in accordance to their size and it has nothing to do with fitting ships with oversized or undersized anything.seriously... can you people read? /facepalm"
"figured he was talking about fitting requirements and module sizes. when you look on the market, you are looking under the appropriate tab, whether it's got a weapon called heavy in it or not. just a minor misunderstanding, but i see your point. i suppose i probably even wondered about it myself at one time.p.s x-large shield booster is intended for a bs; there just happens to be two sizes is all.. they have capital shield boosters for anything larger."
"not a bad idea, but i'd modify it a bit.i'd allow the cloaked ship to show up in grey font, with it's type: loki, buzzard, raven, etc..the cloaked ship would show up directionally on any scan from 360 degrees to 60 degrees. <60 degree scans would not reveal it, and this could be explained by the cloaked vessel detecting the scanner and electronically acting to counter it directly.i like the idea of blue font for the active ships, and i might even go so far as to allow orange, and red fonts for ships piloted by outlaws, and ships piloted by gcc's respectively. technically they are flagged through the ships signature, so there is no reason for that not to be possible, except maybe in nullsec. take that or leave it as you wish, the rest is good.edit: ..and yes, that means i have no objection to the removal of automatic updating of local in nullsec, and perhaps even lowsec. highsec local should remain of course, and i can see other game changes making local visibility in lowsec optional. such as allowing pirates to bribe system officials to remove local, shut down gate guns, and the like.i want to see eve become a more dynamic game. despite my predeliction for being on the right side of the law, i see no reason why there shouldn't be options for those that aren't to make the game more interesting."
"the point of a cloaked ship is to not be seen. having cloaked ship types show on the d-scan totally removes the fear of having a hostile in local. i for one do not want my target to know that i am in a black ops ready to drop a covert cyno. i also do not want my capital ship target to know that i have a cloaky dictor in system waiting to pounce when he makes a mistake. i also don't want my target/victim at the jump bridge to know that my stealth bomber is in system until i launch the bomb at the juicy hauler on the jump bridge. capital ship pilots also will not like the idea that d scan will let the targets know that there are 3 titans and 20 moms cloaked and waiting to strike in system. the cloak adds a huge element of danger and that element of danger is what 0.0 is all about.totally in favor of removing local in 0.0 though! only down side to it is that it would potentially create more scouting alts. removing local would feed the kill machine which is fine by me and my pvp toon! if they do remove local the tears will be legendary!"
"wouldnt be much of a cloak if they can see you on d-scan and have your distance now would it? what about wormholes?"
"even cloaking devices can have a signature of some sort. what they effectively do, is mask ship signatures, and displace the ships mass. with regards to light, presumeably they bend it, or use shield emitters to obscure the ship from sight in some fashion. if you actually looked out a window at one, you would see the light displacement against the backdrop of a planet or moon in all likelihood.no reason to believe that it wouldn't be possible to at least partially detect them, even if by no other means than a hole in your sensor sweep. i can see implementation for this, though perhaps you're right in that the actual identity of the ship would remain unknown. it's quite reasonable to assume that the ship id would be masked as well, though you might determine type.really, for all the 20k years advancement of technology, sensors in eve are horribly unreliable."
"things are still little we need to push to have cyno effects changed! come on people! pass it along!"
"anti-priacy vs piracy and the sec status system.i have been anti-pirate for the entire four years i have played eve. i have no desire to become pirate or even go global on targets if i don't have to. i have taken breaks from the game, due to my frustration with this. there is no direct benefit, to being an anti-pirate, except that you can fly in highsec. this is wrong. no offense to pirates, as i understand it is a way of playing, but there are much more benefits for being pirate than being anti-pirate, and its very hard for people who live in low sec, not to lose security status trying to fight pirates.first off, i believe the security status system needs a rework, starting with some simple logical fixes:1) empire factions do not support piracy, thus pirate players should not be able to join the militia.- straight up and simple.2) corporations should have a security status or concord standing, just like they do with corp and faction standings- even if an entire corp is -10, you still have to gcc there poses in lowsec in order to shoot them. this change will allow players to shoot their poss and anchored cans. furthermore, the sec status should effect all players in that corporation, so that one >- 5 in an entire corporation of -10s can't just fly around as they wish, without being able to be fired upon. this also would be the fix for pirate corporations joining the militia3) you should not gain sec status from 0.0 npcs, especially in sov space.- right now as easy as it it to lose sec status, it is to gain it, if your willing to go out to 0.0, and true anti-pirates and pirates don't generally fly in 0.0. in 0.0 there is supposed to be no or very little concord influence, so why can you even gain sec status in 0.0, if you can not even lose it. bounties are understandable however as you are killing a wanted npc character, but its not like your doing it in empire controlled space. thus its not like your helping the security of the system for the empire. it simply does not make sense.4) players should gain sec for killing -5 and below as they lose sec for shooting -5 and above.the math on this is dicey, to ensure it is not abused, but i could kill neg tens all day long and not get a sec status gain for it, and if i wanted to gain sec have to find some npcs somewhere to kill. it simply does not make sense. the trick would be getting it so that -10s killing each other does not allow sec status gain.5) there is little or no deference in a 0.4 system to a 0.1 when it comes to npc anti-pirate aid.i really don't know how to fix this,but a 0.4 system should be safer than a 0.1 theoretically, and that is really where most of the pirate forces are, on the edge of low sec. the only thing i can think of is npc ship deployments on 0.4 gates when someone gcc, much like the rats that show in highsec when you just into a caldari system and you are in the mini militia. it could even be a benefit to pirates to kill these. they could drop something or what not. also, killing npc pirates in a higher security system should warrant more sec status gain, as the npcs pirates are invading deeper into space concord obviously cares more about, or the reverse could be said 0.1 is helping concord more, until you reach 0.0 where there is no influence.i'm tired of having to gcc poses and people that with pirate organizations and lose my sec status because of it, and have a hard time getting it back up, especially in low sec where most anti-pirates and pirates live. i also know plenty of other anti-pirates feel like i do, some even within electus matari, a well known anti-pirate organization. there is simply no real benefit to being an anti-pirate these days, its frustrating, aggregating, and makes me, and plenty of other people i know enjoy the game much less.neonmetallic dragons"
"hate me for it buti suggest to change the reprocessing or the volume of the itemsso it is now: 6.000 425mm railguns (300.000m<U+FFFD>) can be transport with 1 jfafter reprocessing you have crazy ~8.400.000m<U+FFFD> minerals"
"i mean why not, you're already validating to yourself why people should be allowed to buy ships out of thin air with $$. so how about it ccp lift the restrictions against rmt i could probably make a good bit of cash off my two characters and you've just shown that you are all about the idea."
"they already are allowed in, haven't you seen the veldnaught? seriously though, i don't know on this. on the one hand, it would be a nice to see some new ships since i don't spend a lot of time in null. on the other hand, the simple power of dreads would potentially **** current hs combat.on the other hand, i would love to loot from a dread that dies outside jita..."
"yeah, they were allowed from the very beginning. but after banning capital assemblies in highsec, with some restrictions like no combat use, etc. but with recent changes, you even can't trade your capital in highsec."
"think about all those third rate alliances that are funded by 3 man \"invite only\" corpshow would they every survive if dreads were popping off their untouchaposes in hisec?"
"ban needs to go further.they should be excluded from all sovereign space."
"no"
"yes because freighter pilots need an extra set of fear every time they see sieged dreads out side of 4-4-"
"no idea, i don't know of any of those."
"actually, i know plenty of bored privateers that attack pos for no other reason than to kill it. i've also seen pirates from lowsec temporarily set up a pos in a wormhole for logistics just to destroy a pos or two that was already there, and i've seen evidence of people who simply wardec just to destroy a pos for griefing purposes. it's not exactly uncommon.edit: if i supported the idea of dreads in highsec, it would be conditional on siege mod's not being useable there."
"its sometimes a pain in the ... when you happens to have a conversation or want to read the latest smacktalk.only solution should be a little window that could be turned of and on, with a list of the local contracts,put on there by contractors or generated in a automatic way.anybody who spams the local chat could be petitioned and a gm could warn or even tempban somebody"
"to be honest the simplest solution would be to have a trade chat channel that you can set to auto join once you reach a market hub system. that should separate the spam from local, sure it won't stop the botting but it is easier to implement technically"
"are you bothered by the spam in trade hubs?or are you bothered by the spam of contracts in trade hubs?because a certain amount of the spam isn't contract related at all, and there'd be lots of ways for the contract spammers to get around restrictions, such as decribing the contract verbatim and linking people to the relevant pilot's bio.if you want to put a stop to the small number of people talking a whole lot in popular channels, that's a whole other thing. because people do have genuine conversations in local too."
"why cant they do something like this...if not a local chat window // do whatever you want elseif local chat channel"
"i have no idea what i pushed but it chopped me off - let me rewrite.if not a local chat channel //do what you wantelseif public local channel if linked contract shown in past 3 minutes //cant show else // can showendifu get the idea - if basically a contract was linked in the past 3 or 5 min or something - u cannot re-link it in local."
"supercarriers.nerfing damage on supercaps reduces thier ability to perform thier capital killing role.a better solution is to make them more killable, regardless of the numbers of them on field.so, easier to catch - increase allign time.now the important part.reduce hp by 30%, but, stop doomsday weapons from working against supercaps.my ideas arent finalized or well structured. but all i see atm in these forums are supercap pilots whining about nerfs, and non supercap pilots supporting every \"nerf\" thread they find.we are looking to balance supercaps here remember. if supercarriers are too severely nerfed they once again will become pos ornaments. thier ability to kill capitals needs to be maintained, whilst reducing thier ability to engage subcaps effectively.remember the main issue here is that gangs of 20+ supercaps are overpowered, killing a single supercarrier isnt hard, but introduce the rr of other supercapitals, and they become unkillable - and this is what we need to fix.i hope this opens some eyes.-rock."
"in all reality, the main mechanic that needs to be looked at is the log-off timer. no one is afraid to use their supercaps if they have a fleet of 30 or more because the most they can loose to non-supers is 4 or 5. for most alliances that can field that many 4 or 5 is an acceptable amount to loose. if ccp made it to where if any ship is tackled, it doesn't disappear until either tackle is lost or the ship is destroyed, some alliances would think twice about using them.to rebuff some arguments that will arise from this: ccp has said that client side connection issues are not under their control and are not reimbursable."
"very few supercap pilots would consider this an acceptable loss.... not without killing at least this many enemy supercaps.... your nerf doesn't solve anything.... reducing hp makes them easier to kill within a 15 minute logoff timer. however, in groups, like you find in most fleet fights, they will still have 90+% resists which means rr is just as effective on them. so, how do you overcome rr? there are four standard methods: apply more dps than they can rep (but you haven't changed their resists), ewar out the rr (can't, cause of ewar immunity), neut out the rr (its prohibitively difficult to nuet a group of sc's), or alpha stike, which is easier with lower hp, but near impossible without titan dd's. for your next suggestion, please keep in mind the two major problems of scs: 1.) the lack of vulnerability: their amazing dps is not the problem, its that they can apply it without any penalties or vulnerabilities. their nearly-unlimited drone bay means they can select the right drones for the job, and can take on any ship, nearly any structure better than anything else in the game. additionally, their lack of siege coupled with the ability to efficiently destroy any and all would-be tacklers makes them near invulnerable. 2.) scalability: one or two supercarriers does have some vulnerabilities (rr can keep a group of hic's alive while they tackle a sc, and you can nuet one or two out). however, in small groups (4-10), these vulnerabilities disappear as they can project significantly more dps, their rr abilities exponentially grow without limit, and they are just sickeningly efficient at destroying any ship or structure. by the time you reach 10 sc's, you need a similar number of supercaps to kill them. the nerf that will come should: make it vulnerable to subcaps by limiting the drones it can carry, limit its scalability by reducing the amount of rr it can receive, or change its utility by limiting the types of targets it can engage."
"hi,like the title states i would like to read your positive/negative comments and ideas about changing the cyno skill.make skill requirements match ships like recons.cons/pronsyour thaughts?edit: @ kerrisone, edited thx."
"why?trial accounts cannot train cynosural field theory."
"i think recon level requirements for a skill like that are excessively high to be honest. making it require 2-3 weeks of prior training wouldn't be an off idea though. say, electronic upgrades v prereq.?"
"how is that a problem now that you can create a trial, buy a plex for it and get a new one back trough buddy program when you use it and then sell that new plex?i don't really think cyno skill requirements changing would have a big impact, they will still be insignificant compared to getting the cap pilot."
"hi there, i'm trying to get onto the singularity test server and for some reason my accounts both keep getting denied access.... this is the message im receiving:-both of my accounts are completely active on tranq server and so i am very confused. could someone please offer some enlightenment on this issue. if this is the wrong place to voice my concern then i do appologise but i couldnt find another forum post that reffered to the same issue.many thankspersonal information removed. zymurgist"
"you really shouldn't be posting your account names..."
"wrong place to put it. contact customer support.remember to ask mods to delete/lock this thread."
"i would guess if you let them expire at any point since those 'last logis' that the sisi build is using the data from when they were not active. sisi is setup with data at a certain point and after that it is no longer accurate to tranquility.if your accounts never expired then i don't know what it is, maybe ask in the testing forum or file a petition."
"your character names are enough to look up information on you :) also you may have better luck posting in this thread for help with singularity account activation.moved from assembly hall."
"no i didn't (post #4). just nit-picking and discussing now.sure i would, but that is not what would happen if reloads happened during cycle. guns will still have to complete each and every cycle so rof remains the same.if they cycled off instantly upon empty then yes, damage would increase dramatically for guns like l artillery by micro'ing reloads.but the idea is to be able to give a reload order at any point and having the stop-wait-reload-start sequence become automated. it is already half-way there as you can give reload command during red-flash after a target is lost/destroyed but it is not possible to do it manually by deactivating and then reloading .. manual de-ac forces you to wait for cycle completion."
"i was originally referring to this-which implies he thinks reload should begin immediately after ammo runs out, which would indeed create the possibility of drastically increasing artillery dps, and would cause inconsistencies in the relative 'penalty' of reloading depending on weapon duration."
"sorry thai ndee secretary in eve to :) i can run true spell cheker but hee nit shows wath exactly ineed to change, only shows that i need to change someting, but i dont know wath to change, never lerned english i writing how i hear its right ;)"
"you'll make people leave high sec to null sov big alliances (safer than high sec) or leave the game.good work, your idea is really impressive and the whole community will join me to thank you for this grat idea."
"i hope you are joking."
"what of they just removed the no remote rep penalty from siege mode on current dreads? i bet if they could be rr'd during siege they'd have better survivability and be more useful for tearing down sc's. you still have the problem that an sc can move out of range, but it's a start i guess?"
"apparently, the alliance tournament is speshul."
"...holy cheese what manner of s**tstorm have i stepped in...except i'm not proposing a full on arena pvp system, the eve online premier league would be more exclusive, and not just anyone could waltz in and have an arena match. it would be restricted to teams established officially in the league, i'm not sure on how the establishment process would work but i'm sure it could be worked out in such a way as to not confirm the fears of the \"omfg it would break sandbox pvp\" people."
"status update:19 sessions, 13 completed. last few should be done in the next couple of days then ccp scrubs them."
"so... you'll have finished around cq launch... but how much time will need ccp ? a few days ? more than a week ?"
"i haven't the foggiest!"
"lawl that would be great"
"with the new captains quarters you get a kickin' rad wall mounted tv but all it shows are boring repeats about stuff in game. clearly what you want after a long day of being a fierce pirate in low sec is to come home to your captains quarters and watch your pirated animes. in fact we should have a bit torrent control in the ship hud so you can pirate while you pirate."
"poo"
"anime is cartoons"
"i use my noob alt to steal mission loot from mission runners, and when they kill him - i get a kill rights.i then wait until that mission runner starts up a new mission a day or 2 later. i then warp my loki into the mission and accept the contract for the kill right while i'm 10km away from him... decloak and pew pew. not to mention that the mission rats will do most of the actual work for me. scoop the mission fit loot and laugh.other than situations like this - i believe that the \"bounty\" system needs a lot of love."
"why are you comparing ecm to the rest of e-war? they do not all need to be the same"
"i fully support this topic. the pos mechanics need to be fixed, as they are clunky and frustrating to bother with on good days.edit: i live out of a pos in wh space, and as it stands i have no way to find explore the incarna content. if pos mechanics were fixed to let me do so, honestly i'd be tickled to death or what-have you.or at least let us build gorramn stations in w-space, kthx?"
"yes"
"yes"
"tempest and tempest fleet need 7-8 guns with rof bonus and tracking or falloff(i prefer tracking) bonus making it dedicated arty platform and only mini ship with tracking bonus(vargur excluded).that way apoc and abaddon can be sub par (using artys) as they should be and not making me puke at terrible state of tempest.all short range weapons should get nerf in range bar blasters so gal ships can be usable again and long range guns become more usable.sorta that."
"so how did your may summit go, did u recommend any ship changes to ccp?"
"in addition to many of the other things suggested here, many of which i support, i would like to propose halving the cpu used by all reactors and silos. this to bring down the entry level for reactions, to generally improve the sanity/quality of life of reaction pos keepers and to allow more reacting, the purpose of which is beyond the scope of this post."
"cosmetic onlyi'm fine with people wasting thier money buying paint jobs for their ships etc. nothing that is player produced should ever be sold via micro-transaction."
"no,while i don't think that mt will kill eve, player backlash as well as the slippery slope it puts the game on could cause problems."
"no"
"nono... not no but **** no!"
"no.i'd quit over this."
"no."
"no"
"no"
"[no]"
"no"
"**no** microtransactions only for f2p"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"micro+monthly pay --> total failcheck out startrek online they did the same greedy over everythingabout cosmetic only , do you want to play space barbi online or what?:o because incarna is all about that"
"no!"
"no!"
"i pay 45 dollars a month, every month, for my three characters. i have done so even when i had to take a break from eve. did i feel bad letting my characters just sit with no skills in their queue while i was paying? no, it's ccp, i had no problem with it.now, i'm not so sure. it's been said before here, and i'll say it again; mts involving anything which affects balance is not only irresponsible, but will damage the game beyond a repairable point.3 accounts; i would be more than happy to pay even 2 extra dollars a month for each, if money was such a huge issue. either way, i say let's conduct a mailing campaign. send your opinions and feelings toccp headquartersccp hfgrandagar<U+FFFD>ur 8101 reykjav<U+FFFD>kicelandshow ccp that you're more willing to spend your money on postage to tell them not to do it than actually paying for mt items."
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"noimmersion breaking:- i'll keep seeing things in-game that remind me rl exists. and i won't ever think \"cool paint job\" or \"omg luv ur space monocle!!!\" only \"that **** has too much money and/or spends it unwisely\". that is not an in-game thought.- players with cosmetic add-ons will be less likely to be taken seriously. this will encourage fight hunters to doll their ships up like ripe posh noobs to draw in opponents. it may even become an important part of making solo pvp viable. cool strategy, except \"cosmetic goods only\" will then very definitely be affecting game mechanics!don't hide behind linguistic technicalities:- if an item cannot enter the game without rl money changing hands, that's a paywall.- if you offer new content that begins behind a paywall, that is tantamount to a non-free expansion pack. money above and beyond subscriptions is required for that content to exist in the game.- if you have some very specific-but-misleading definition of \"microtransaction\", something like, \"micro means less than $2. the cheapest fancy shirt is $3. therefore, no microtransactions!\", then you've just been flat-out lying to us.confine aurum to the station-walkers or i'm out."
"supported.lot's of good conditions mentioned, allowing for satisfied costumers while still hindering scammers.edit: not to mention, that the new last name option allows the usage of once similar, yet blocked names which forced that stupid number-adding and ****."
"bump...current graphics is pathetic at best. old graphic was much better. it should have some way of expressing that your tearing through the fabric of space."
"i absolutely one hundred percent support this thread. old cyno graphic, for the win."
"my thoughts exactly.+1 and supported!"
"agreed. i'm not against incarna or cq, but you should be able to dock normal as before and then choose whether or not to leave your capsule and enter cq."
"this"
"supported"
"supported"
"i'll wager that 'the data does not support that a subscription model is superior to a mt/f2p' or at least that mt are 'proven' to increase revenue.so trying to convince people to do pretty much exactly what they've shown they aren't interested in doing is nigh impossible, ie polished quality. ccp has plans and those plans aren't going to be derailed too much is on the line, dust514/wod only after those things happen is there really any chance of ccp trying to sell polished reality and if they've soured eve, their name, etc it will be a tough sell. as has been noted ccp had plans to add mt to eve regardless of anything else, it was 'destined' to happen and they aren't going back.i just wish i had a dozen accounts i could cancel cause that is the only thing that seems to get through to ccp when it comes to these types of things, oh and epic threadnought rage which i think the community is getting low on having had to deal with so many horrible ccp decisions."
"welcome to the darkside kerrisone..... here is yet another thread full of people upset with mt. give it a look. it is worth the read:ships for $ ---- general discussion thread"
"i dissagree strongly with this. in fact i think the opposite is true. the trend in fps's is having more rpg elements in player character progression. especially games like bfbc2 and the cod series. they have semi-persistant stats and leveling for players and this makes those games far more popular not less. fps players are asking for more complex systems in their games, the only thing that is missing is more persistance which is where ccp is way ahead of the curve and in a unique position. from what i understand when you are in your war barge/personal quarters you're in your civies and you don't haven anything with you but your trophies maybe. equipment is all modular and assembled on the battlefield so when you jump clone to where the match is you pick a setup and whenever you call in a vehicle or chose a weapon it is assemble to your spec on the spot. also from what i've read supplies will be delivered to planets via eve players, so if the planet is blockaded maybe some of your fits are restricted.funny i play all of those games myself and i've been playing eve since beta, elitist much? that is more than a little generalized i think. that would likely describe a vast majority of eve players as well. i think it's a little naive to think that the majority of eve players play nothing but eve all the time."
"*edited to be more concise and easily implemented*the way that mission rewards are now split for fleets is underwhelming to say the least.of the 3 available rewards there are:isk rewards, loyalty pointscorp standingas it stands, these 3 rewards are heaped into one big pile.my proposal would also allow you to decide if you want to share all 3 types of rewards or if you only want to share one or two.an example would be:you and 5 friends fleet up and take on a mission. upon turn in, you choose to keep all the corp standings but share the loyalty points and isk rewards.well, that's the system. it's more fair and gives the mission runner far more control over what he gives his fleet members rather than an all or nothing approach and let's him choose which if any of his 3 rewards he wants to share.questions?"
"change something that barely matters from simple to complicated.orbe the classic eve d-bag and kick the people you don't like from the fleet for turn in.oronly run with people you're actually willing ot split with.ordon't split.several other options already exist, and there are more. fortunately none of them actually matter much."
"proposal edited and simplified."
"a lot of people wan't wtz, and some hate the idea, saying you should \"play your game\" i say there's nothing you can do in transit anyway, except take forever (and use the facilities), and be vulnerable. most ships used for hulling have little to no capabilities do defend themselves, and in some cases there so slow it ads an 30 min's to an hour on travel time (or it seems like it.) in my opinion wtz should be in the game, however, i feel that it would be fair to make it a skill, meaning that if you want wtz you have to earn it. un-skilled - 15km autopilot programming i - 10km autopilot programming ii - 8kmautopilot programming iii - 5km autopilot programming iv - 0km autopilot programming v - include auto docking @ waypoints"
"i`m sure we could also make moving the ship at all tier 10 skill. and initiating warp too. after all, we don`t want noobs to fly their ships too early..."
"haven't heard a single person complain about it for several years until you came along. leads me to believe the problem is with you and not the system.camping is lame and already way too easy so most definitely does not warrant a 'boost', and inserting wasted time just for the hell of it is neither here nor there."
"pointless, not supported. there are a multitude of important things to spend dev time on."
"i suspect the first and second replies misunderstood the point of the op - not sure i agree with it, but he's suggesting a boost to autopilot, allowing it to warp closer to the gate with increased skill level - not a nerf to existing wtz mechanics."
"not supported.there is supposed to be a benefit of traveling manualy. the benefit is that you get to your destination faster, since you can wtz when doing so. if you have something expensive to haul, then you shouldn't be autopiloting anyways. but travel manualy and by doing so, help to protect your investment by reducing the chance of getting suicided."
"wtz is an abomination and is one of the biggest factors in eve pvp issues today. but arbitrarily inventing new skills for something we already have is even worse."
"i didint knowed that scaner now shows cloucked ships :) tink befor write."
"the same questio nto you siting afk cloucked in system how its that enjoument off the game ;)"
"the enjoyment comes from the reactions of people like you"
"given the ease of flying the assault frigates you need to have some way of keeping them flying in such large groups that they alpha a super cap. increased risk to caps is great, but having them provide the same risk titan vs a carrier has because you jump 50 man assault frig gang into the battle is stupid.play with the idea and find a balance, if you over due something like this you will basically put super capitals definitely back into afk mode and most likely push standard capitals into rare fleets. which leads to the world of slow sub cap sov/pos grinding."
"well i think i formed the idea enough so you can't simply warp in and alpha a super, lets say the missile does 1% structure damage per hit that means you need to bring 100 assault frigs that do nothing other then fire it's missile not to mention, how many times are you in a fleet fight with just 1 super on the field.think about it this way, your a cap fc are you going to drop your cap fleet on a fleet that has a hundred dedicated cap killers on grid or are you going to wait for your support fleet to thin them out?the part i think really makes this weapon system is that it's a dumb fire missile you still need to hit the target evade it's defensive fleet and reposition again for another attack run."
"because of falcon.sure are a lot of falcon alts in this thread.my main is 10 days from a level iv recon ships falcon.not going to be training it, though. i'd feel dirty."
"after the range nerf i cant really say i see a lot of falcons around tbh. at least not compared to how many of them there used to be"
"there are more rapiers bought/used than falcons , it is strange that the speed race field as many or even more high tech recons than the ew racesolution: nerf the imba op perma webbing matar recons, it is just ridiculous how i dont have any chance at all to fight back, no point using drones as they can also be disco ...sick of ships where you can do feck all to defend yourself..its been proven rapiers pretty much permaweb, there is no chance base..its wrong!"
"why is the market limited to regions? i can acces pi over 5 regions, but cannt buy ammo in jita? there would be no more need to look on eve-central for information that should be availible in the game or to jump to the next region to check the prices there.we have already filters for the market that are useful and will handle the mass of orders. and this maybe will avoid the 1000 time overprized sells and 0.01 isk buyorders.what do you think about it?a universe wide market with good filters, ftw.+ stable prices+ less overprized sell orders (becuase of higher pressure on sellers)+ good buy orders (because of higher demand)+ no more jumping or internet research for good prices- performance issuessimply a logical question, too. why pi in entire universe, but no market in entire universe."
"i wouls like to see some kind of drop down menu (like in contracts) to select regions for price check."
"why is your proposal limited to damage? there are lots of science and industry skills that only give a small linear bonus for the exponentially longer training time. imagine if this method was applied to manufacturing material efficiencies and time efficiencies. i'm sure this wouldn't give an overwhelmingly large advantages to highly skilled manufactures, rather than the small advantage they currently get for such long training ques. what about ewar effectiveness.... training the last level of turret destabilization or signal suppression takes several weeks. but it would suddenly be worthwhile if they got exponential increases in the effectiveness of td's and sensor dampeners. wouldn't it be neat if a celestis could damp a recon to 10 km's lock range, and if an arbitrator could make a hurricane unable to hit an orbiting supercarrier! what about leadership skills: why should someone who trained all those long fleet boosting skills to level 5 only get a small extra bonus... wouldn't the game be better if having a fleet boosting command ship gave exponentially increased bonuses.... think how much 200km web and point ranges would boost game strategies. imagine rr on dramiel-sized bs's sporting 90+ resists. /sarcasmdiminishing returns is an extremely important feature of this game. its necessary to every aspect of game balance. i can understand your desire to increase the bonus that a level 5 skill provides, but the level of boosts your suggesting are way overboard. basically, skill training time increases at an exponential rate for a linear increase in bonus. stick to this formula!! not supported!"
"ccp designed the skill system so that vets would have more versatility over newer players, not more power.while i don't mind the idea, ccp would also say that the purpose of the skills as they are is so to get that extra 2% requires dedication. most stop a 4 because there are more beneficial skills to train than wasting a month of an l5 skill that only gives you 2%.your way would see less versatility as to be able to compete you would have to train to 5 nearly every time, especially with weapons.also, to intact this system would cause complete chaos among any players that weren't vets due to the bonus that currently exist at the levels they exist at are all that allows them to use certain ships and modules they currently use.still, i'll support this because i like chaos and something more worthy to work for."
"as it stands, the jukebox is designed to work best with the eve playlist.when you proceed through a warp gate, the song changes up to create an appearance of dynamic music.the problem is that it does this with your own playlists as well.how many of us have been doing a mission, listening to a song and jamming along and then upon activating a warp gate, the game stops your song and launches you into a track on the eve playlist?what i'm proposing is that ccp give us the ability, through a check box on the jukebox perhaps, that allows us to disable this \"dynamic\" track change-up."
"reasonable."
"thanks. i love how many people have read this but not said anything good or bad about it. like c&p, i'm afraid this particular section of the forum is broken. people only really reply when the thread is a troll or you go off half ****ed, complaining about something that's already happening.the fact is, many good proposals that would improve game experience get ignored and left to vanish into obscurity while threads about crap that we all know will never get resolved due to ccp's thickheaded ways, linger on like a bad smell for months and accrue tons of rebuttal.worst part is, the new csm, which i support, like many csm's before it, rarely comes in to say anything making them about as involved in the section designed for them to hear us as ccp is in their own suggestion section of the forum.fact is people, if you're going to ignore stuff that can improve the game just because it isn't something you care about personally, you might as well hang it up.this idea has merit and is low hanging fruit, say something."
"simple.but maybe add those tracks to default playlist? (so if someone likes them, he can listen to them.)"
"supportedi'd really like to use the jukebox when missioning, but the fact that it automatically changes track whenever i activate a warp gate really annoys me. at least give us the option to disable this behaviour (without turning music off entirely)!"
"a good idea, although this is more of a bug report than a feature request.it surely can't be *intended* to work that way."
"supported...this bug in the jukebox is absolutely annoying."
"/supported.one of the reasons have muted my jukebox, even after the playlists were introduced.(also, jukebox should support internet radio streams)"
"sometimes you want to listen to music, and not the eve music for the 1,000th time..."
"...why not just use your own media player like a normal person?"
"supported, sounds like another papercut"
"compare owners of yellow skulls to shop lifters and reds to murderers .. one is a fine or community service and the other is hard time or task of helping to clean up a rough neighbourhood.have you ever tried repairing more than a few digits by ratting in high-sec? sure it can be done but chances are you'll be dead from slit wrists at the end of it .. it is like digging a trench with a table spoon.bounty and system security both factor in, which is why one has to be a bot or a moron to even consider repairing anything but a security-blip in low/high as things stand."
"if you removed the show distance bit for the cloaked ships, i'd be all about this, and i generally hate any changes to cloaking.i don't mind the fact that you can be picked up cloaked, but i dislike the distance because of things i can already think about doing to exploit knowing distances when the measure is small."
"i think removing local is a good idea, but adding cloaked ships to directional is bad... in fact, adding them there makes it even harder for cloaked ships than it currently is since now you only know someone is in system but not in what kind of ship.personally i want cloaks to function in a diffrent way from the current:prototype cloak: remove from overview. still fully visible in space and on overview. no reduction in sig size.improved cloak: remove from overview and directional. if your ship is stationary it is harder to spot in space but not impossible, while moving a distortion is fairly easily seen in space. slight reduction in sig size.covert ops cloak: remove from overview, directional and (if not local is dropped then from local as well). if you are stationary you are all but impossible to spot in space, when you move a slight distortion is showed if you are close, if not then you will be more or less visible. also the makes the sig size of the ship tiny so it takes a long time to target (even for interceptors) while being cloaked.i would also like to add a assault covert ops cloak that removes you from the same places as the covert ops cloak but has rougly the same cloaking effect as a improved cloak (maybe a tad bit better). the diffrence with this cloak and the regular one is that you can still use mods/weapons while being cloaked... mod effects are not cloaked however so that shining hardner effect will be fully visible for all to see."
"removing local i can support, it needs doing as soon as possible but i see no need to change the d-scan to enable even the limited detection of cloaked vessel. cloaking is working as intended, you pay a penalty for being able to avoid detection already (i.e sb's are glass cannon) without trying to nerf it."
"well done, you've just broken wh space."
"how about no."
"how about reson that wil emty 0.0 coplitly no one wil run anomalys just sit pvp toons ins station and that its and launch them when needet. that weil hapen if you wil remuve local. and rater will be not able see reds with are incoming. probably you wil get first time soem kil but then 0.0 will beckome as desert. allready its desert after last anomaly nerf."
"bad idea. no."
"from this thread:i would like to hear the csm's side of this, specifically:is that exactly what you agreed on? i.e. paying aurum for a ship hull+paint job, without that a regular hull is removed from the game?if yes, did ccp actually seek your advice, or were you presented with a fait accompli and asked for your approval?does there exist a transcript of that meeting/chat which you can publish, or is it under an nda?"
"seconded.i would like our 'representative' to advise of their role in this and precisely what was said/not said.edit: and their reasoning behind any decision(s) made and how they believe it relates to other eve capsuleers."
"/pitchfork"
"that would be /rifter"
"yup, i too am interested i hearing their perspective on this. i haven't ever whined once on the forums, but i do agree that while this new ship purchase is not a tactical advantage, it is a paradigm change that is concerning. just make it like the damn lp store, how can it be that hard?"
"/rifter with t2 pitchforks grouped, blinking and waiting for a lockbetter?"
"aye would like to hear what was said on this topic.temporary ship releases will only create isk sinks.the few new people eve would get because of this feature will ragequit after their new shiney and recently rare ship gets ganked.i feel/fear this'll do nothing more then shell out eve to nothing more then a rmt hobby."
"in context, what was actually said was...so it's temporary, and the stats are the same, so...where is the problem? it's a bloody scorpion, they cost a pittance anyway."
"you're acting like ccp asked their permission to do this change. it's just cosmetic so i don't see the issue, especially when you would need the actual item as part of the exchange.transcripts? are you serious? lets try remember that this is a video game after all."
"since you must obviously be a major distributor of scorpions (otherwise why so upset), why not just build ravens for the 3-4 months from incarna to winter patch which will remove it again?it is a paint job on a mediocre ship, and while it may just be ccps way to lure us into accepting a foul turbine type system, i sincerely doubt they have the deviousness to have even considered it .. ccp = baldrick.playerbase = blackadder.ps: use the thread(s) already spammed with the exact same topic."
"i think what the op is suggesting is a vote of \"no confidence\". in which case i fully support it."
"not supported1 weeks trail =/= support of mt"
"a trial basis, on a single, cheap as **** battleship, up until the system can be fixed, does not constitute support for much of anything. get out."
"allowing rmting would worsen a problem. already it's greatly effected 0.0 politics. most realize rmt played a huge role in the current number of super caps currently being fielded. if ccp was to allow rmting we'd simply see a cascade in the game where only those wealthy enough to buy mass amounts of isk, and those intelligent enough to write botting programs would climb to any wealth or importance in the game."
"10 no!20 goto 10"
"vote yes, ccp is dead set on ruining the game as evidenced in their little post about a certain scorpion being bought for aurum without taking a t1 counterpart out in exchange. if you have faith in ccp that they 'will fix it later' i'm not sure what game you've been playing. later never comes, so please give me a way to sell my character legally for $$ so i can get off this failboat with a profit."
"strangely enough i play this game for fun not a profit, i would examine your motivations for playing. i assume that you didn't expect to make cash out of this game when you started playing and accepted the monthly sub as the price of a service provided. if you want to save yourself cash then stop paying to play this \"failboat\" game and spend the time doing something profitable for you instead of trying to undermine and destroy eve for the rest of us."
"i've prepared a plan of actions for when rmt is allowed1) sell everything2) profit!!!!3) cancel subscription"
"no. never.ccp's allowing rmt would open ccp to a (large) number of legal liabilities and legal responsibilities, because by doing that ccp could legally be seen either as a game of chance or more likely as a bank.somehow i really doubt ccp wants to go through the rigmarole of bank validation and further i doubt ccp would want to be forced, as a bank, to back the isk with a set amount of real money. note that in that case your isk income would have to be reported for income purposes . . . there are other, better, articles on this matter but finding them is left as an exercise for the reader."
"make carriers and super carriers mission specificcarriers in eve are the swiss army knife of eve (ccp's term). this needs to change, they can perform the role anytime. the change i propose for the csm to toss at ccp is this-add mission modules to carriers. this takes up one of the slots used for t3's (so the mechanics are already there) and would be the following.combat1 drone control per levelability to use drone control units200% bonus to fighter control rangeability to fit warfare linksgal-5% bonus to drone damageamarr-5% bonus to armor resistscaldari-5% bonus to shield resistsminmitar-5% bonus to drone velocitydrone bay reduced slightlylogistics1 extra drone per levelability to fit capital remote repair modulesability to fit triage module50% bonus to remote module range (including hull)5% bonus to drone remote repair amarr- 5% bonus to capacitor use of remote repair modules drone bay- 525m3gallente- 10% bonus to drone remote repair (armor only) drone bay- 600m3minmitar- 5% bonus to remote repair amountdrone bay- 540m3caldari- 5% bonus to remote repair cycle time (shield only)drone bay- 500m3what this does is give carriers specific roles, either dps or repair."
"or just buff dreads enough to make them a viable counter to scs because supers are fine atm dreads aint"
"instead of all super blobs you get super blob with a few dirt cheap carriers thrown in.how is that supposed to solve anything?"
"recently i came to the conclusion that sc are not overpowerd when you only have 1 or 2 they die easy to a well planned 30+ man fleet with cap support1 sc can kill a sieging dread in about 5 min (heared from a sc pilot )the problems start showing up when you have a big fleet of sc together as they can kill any cap ship on grid in a few secblobbing is the problem (and perhaps the logoftimer for suppers )"
"i think the static plexes where introduced to give people a chance to try them out. all they do is current provide home for bots and peoples alts who camp all day in the final pocket. chars like 14-30 days old in t2 frigs.proposal:once someone enters a final pocket the re-spawn of the overseer with the keycard in the first pocket is blocked. also you can blow op the final component (like serpentis financial center) only once and take the loot. no re-spawn as long someone is in the final pocket. to prevent people from blocking the final pocket for someone else to be in right position to enter, id suggest you make a random time (like 1-10 mins after blowing the structure with the loot) based spawn of an \"undefeatable\" amount of ships for a t2 frig i.e. 30 elite frigs, 20 cruiser, 10 battlecruiser, 5 battleships - so one has to leave the final pocket.if you want to do it clean id suggest even a binding of the key card to the very same static plex, so no one can sell the keys and go somewhere else."
"i'm not against any kind of sub-super capital in high sec. they aren't capable of spreading more firepower than a fleet of bs's and using them as devices of ganking would be dumb given the cost.also, they would add an interesting aspect to high sec wars. i personally would love to see some of the kinds of wars you seen in null take place in high sec with dreads standing in for titans and carriers for super carriers.also, since high sec is a training ground, it would let new cap pilots learn how to jump and use their caps in battles without being sprung upon by a huge pirate nest or null sec blob gang."
"i think that all capitol ship's should be allowed to freely come in an out of high sector given their security status. they would not however be able to fire on any target, provide any type of drone or ship based repair as well as all bonuses being reduced to zero. ....if however the capitol should be attacked by an aggressor then the ship's weapon's system's would be released by concord in order for the capitol ship to defend itself. once the aggro timer had returned to zero the ship's defensive and offensive system's would return to a state of zero use.the capitol ship would only be allowed to stay in any high sector system for 24 hours after which concord would locked the capitol ship into the station hangar that would cost the owner no less than one billion isk to have concord release the ship into the owners hand's."
"no. capitals do not belong in highsec. i would much rather ban supercaps from 0.4 and maybe 0.3.allowing covert cynos in highsec (even just 0.5-0.6) is something i really could live with."
"stopwatch in accessories????"
"it doesn't need game mechanics. hhandle it the same category as racism or sexism, break the rule and get the ban-hammer."
"the pilots get reimbursed, it's about the corp/alliance finances. while the small number of supers you risk loosing now isn't crippling for an alliance, so there's no serious risk, loosing the entire fleet would be. that risk will discourage the use of them, and make a lot more of them die when something goes wrong, reducing the number of supers in the game. the problem isn't really that too many are built, the problem is that not enough die to compensate for the ones that are built."
"from what the op is saying, i think it isn't the damage or the health of super caps that needs to be nerfed, its the remote rep.just take out the ability for supers to remote each other.problem solved."
"mistake, pls edit"
"p. sure bob killed bob you just try to claim credit."
"oh my goddess, you make modern western democracies look efficient! at this rate we'll have the minutes in hand by the time the next session is ready to begin .. hahahahaha (read: hurry up, we need drama)."
"this"
"hmm, i don't know where you got the idead that i want all ew to be the same, far from it really, but why would i not compare one of something to the rest of the something?just like faction weaponry (i.e.: the four common weapons which recieve ship bonuses based on faction lines being missiles, hybrids, projectiles and lasers -- used to exclude smartboms and bombs... er, ignoring stealth bombers) there should be a balance (ecm:ew::missiles:faction weaponry). if you want to know why there should be belance in eve, then... effort"
"that's not bias, it's an inescapable result. null is so f'ed up almost any change to any part of eve would improve it."
"fixed old content is new content as far as i'm concerned. promise us one year (two expansions or so) without new ships, new art, new effects. just revisit all those old game mechanics that have twisted or staled. balance things out again and uncover the good idea at the core of all those half-baked features.i've given up on so much of the game that eve seems much smaller to me now. reviving the dead branches is as good to me as brand new stuff. better, even, since it might become good rather than just new."
"there is no need for us to use 1 racial cq on all different station because of staged rollouts. this is crap.i don't want a minmatar cq on a gallente station, nor do i want half finished aur shop stuff that is temporary until you fix it.get your act together ccp.supporting op."
"supported"
"/signedi do not want any sort of micro transactions in the game. for me no expansion since apocrypha has done anything to improve the enjoyment i get from this game. i personally understand that from when tha game launched many years ago every expansion / add-on has been free because we all pay our subscription charges.personally, i feel you are spitting in my face by changing this method of our doing business, me spending my real world money supporting your product.the day you change your part of that agreement (legal or not) i will vote with my wallet and remove my support from your business model.regards,a concerned customer"
"while fixing gallente, consider that many gallente ships have active tanking bonuses which may be nice in pve situations, but in pvp buffer tanks are the choice for the moment. so either make buff active tanking and make it a viable choice in small pvp engagements (in large fleets, i don't see a way ctive tanking could be used properly due to focus fire crushing all active tanks without problems) or replace those bonuses by passive counterparts. while caldari/amarr get tanking bonuses weather they use buffer odr active tank, forcing gallente/some minnie pilots to fite active tanks to actualy gain the bonus is not fair..another point i see is the fact that the way how blaster should work it appears the weapon system better fits to minamtar ships: use haevy damage in close range encounters, needing fast and agile ships to get in range fast.the most blaster plattforms (like hyperion, deimos) are simply far too slow and/or have difficulties fitting sth like a tank to start with..second point on same topic: rails should be the weapon system with low rof, but high alpha - railguns (as they should be, per definition) need time to charge before a shot and due to highly accelerated \"projectile\" cause high damage. whereas artiliery can sustain quite nice rof and \"decent\" dmg. again it seems the weapon systems between gallente/minmatar are swaped..."
"possibilities for frig/cruiser involvement:big ships still useful:- leave outright destruction to the big guns.medium/small ships useful:- add targetable \"weak spots\" that only a frig or cruiser would be accurate enough to hit.- destruction of a weak spot has limited effect: causes only a brief incapacitation, only reduces efficiency, or is just much easier to fix.- maybe a (very) small chance of a catastrophic chain reaction that destroys whatever weak spot was on (very star wars, but could be fun). obviously some things would have to be immune and/or much less likely to have this happen.sabotage module?- wears down some timer or a fourth hp bar, causes less damage or has a less enduring effect than a full on assault. maybe chance based like salvagers/ewar.- not a gun, so it requires ship fits less suitable for other things (good or bad depending on who you'd ask)- perhaps effectiveness is tied to something like scan res to give smaller ships an advantage.- could be a good \"covert only\" thing. or maybe recons/blackops use them as if they had a frigate's scan res.- maybe it makes ea frigs useful somehow?"
"dump the \"common ores in hisec, rare ores in 0.0\" paradigm. even out the mineral distribution and just affect availability. gradually reduce the volume of ores in hisec until you see the desired price and population shifts. there are so f'ing many people in hisec (capsuleers and normals) that, if anything, they should be dependent on a constant influx of material from outside empire.hisec comes off as a paradise right now, but it should be rife with the problems of overpopulation. residents there should be at each other's throats fighting over what little ore is left."
"slowly raise sell, build and research costs in hisec until you get the desired effect. adjust as needed. keep hisec safe, but make them pay for it."
"this. there are a lot of ways to change the cost/benefit of hisec/nullsec, but at the end of the day the near-perfect safety provided by concord is basically free. on possibility might be to make concord protection a kind of optional insurance that applies within hisec systems. the costs of concord insurance increases as sec-status decreases, or something."
"all above + personal habitation module (with a cargo bay as a gsc)and others new modules for incarna uses like casino, bar, trading module...think at those who are living in w-spaceso7"
"so \"green\" edit: support topic + ability to hack off line pos (lvl5 hack +lvl4 anchor?)"
"allow robbing and raiding pos production without destroying the tower. force more production to pos's instead of stations. allow destroying and salvaging production facilities generally without having to shoot insane deathstar omgwtfbbqkill tower.wait did i post this already somewhere, dunno."
"fix the ui.fix role management.add individual ownership.make them ancohrable anywhere (anchoring at moon just allowed moon mining)more types of specialized towers.alliance hangarsallow capital mant arrays to be anchored outside of sov space. (some of us want a nonstation place to fit/store carriers and dreads)pos anchore/online/offline/unahore queve.thats about it."
"no"
"no."
"no."
"no"
"no"
"no.ccp demonstrated in record time that they don't know when to stop.if they got from cosmetics to selling ships in but a couple months where will they end up in a year or two?"
"no to aurum.why go plex -> aurum -> vanity item or isk -> aurum -> vanity item, when you can go plex -> isk -> vanity item or just isk -> vanity item."
"i already pay subscription with my money. i don't see why i need to pay more money just for ingame stuff that my money helped pay to develop. microtransactions should only go with free 2 play games, not pay 2 play. since ccp is so greedy in wanted more of my money, then i'll give them nothing. if mt happens, eve will become from pay 2 play to pay 2 win, your subscription payment and time spent will be meaningless to richer people. tl:dr : no i don't want a pay 2 win game, **** you ccp."
"no, just no..."
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no.increase subs instead."
"no"
"no ! no ! no ! remove plex ! only subscription !why will i play when players are cheating with bots and are playing for free !"
"yup, and in the fellow thread (name change) with harsh conditions! there are even more insights that rational dissenters have failed to strike down. \"name changing: keeping eve beautiful by reducing number-added names\""
"this will be my first, literally, post on a game forum ever. what drives me from eve is the eye strain. i am tested at 20/20 and don't need glasses- but after an hour or two of playing eve my eyes are sore from the strain.i have recently returned and am finding new enjoyment in the game but i take issue with anything that causes this amount of eye strain in so short a time. it is unsustainable if i want to keep playing.please, ccp, as one of your players i want to let you know that the number one thing i'd like to see come to eve is custom font.sincerely,r"
"supported for race and bloodline change, not one or the other, must be both. cause this intaki looks absolutly nothing like my old potrait before incursion, and this is bs... as the original poster says, i went from a enzo ferrari to a 1977 vokswagon hippie van..."
"this is not a \"name change\" thread kaelie. nobody is gona look at a scam contract and go \"hey isnt that so-and-so? the scammer? i think... wait, he used to be minmatar, now hes amarr! must not be him.\" and accept the contract... (poor example but you probably get my point)your name is your reputation, nobody cares about what u look like except you, and there is no differece in skillpoints or attributes between races, and buying a caldari clone and jumping into it will not change your standings to any extent, this is for appearances only"
"yes! supported. +1a rebalance is needed. my toon is gallente specialized and i refuse to just...start over with another race."
"+1 vote"
"yes"
"ccp state they are going to 'fix hybrids' but it is low down on their list of priorities. this should be a priority!"
"ok gais! let's have a vote! but noone is allowed to vote no, ok?"
"red dwarf?go back to wow !!"
"supported."
"judging by your killcount you should be the very last person to tell me to go to wow."
"supported."
"it's a blame to ccp that we actually have to vote for such an obvious issue to be fixed.i don't know the structures behind ccp, but it seems they should rethink their manhour distribution among various eve-related features. seems they're not aware that spaceships actually are the central \"feature\" of eve - this is what should be monitored very closely - ccp's rebalancing reaction time was horrible in the past tbh - if there was an reballancing attempt at all."
"+1 for gallente love"
"/supported... do something at leastoh sorry i forgot u too busy working how to sell ships for rl money"
"as a gallente only pilot **** yeah!"
"i spend 1 year for skill my hybrid all lvl 5, a now you want nerf, stop cry, and upgrade your specific race/ship capacity.... for example use web drones, to keep far the ship with ''terrible'' blaster...."
"i support a gallente balance i fly only gallente and they kind of suck compared to other shipsthis is my alt this is my shield"
"supported, immersion breaking and lore-bastardizing. love incarna, hate cq."
"i like incarna and looking forward to it since i heard about it (nov 05).the prospect of finally interacting with my corpmates in a lounge or just sitting on the sofa while logged in is exciting.that said, because of usability and immersion breaking issues, i don't support the mandatory-ness of what is currently known as incarna/captainsquarters.make it optional until you addressed those issues."
"my guess it'll end up as \"excellence\" threads..."
"have you never had a cell phone? heard of video poker? online shopping? suddenly we lose these technologies when we develop interstellar flight? as it stands, i can chat with people from across the star cluster, buy things from anywhere in the region. wtf would i suddenly need to be there in person!?yes, to interact using our avatars should require leaving the pod. playing poker with physical paper cards probably should. maybe the aurum clothes are so ridiculously fancy (probably cost as much as a mid-size ship don't forget) that the tailor absolutely must measure me in person with absurdly high-precision instruments. but even then, one measurement should be enough. i'm a clone of a clone of a clone. i will be physically identical every time my tailor sees me, and i'm sure his futuristic computer has the space for the few dozen bytes needed to store my measurements.edit: support checked"
"my computer won't be an issue at all. i might even walk around occasionally. but for immersion and simplicity's sake, it's best to stick to the lore and let the capsuleer decide whether what needs to be done is worth leaving the pod for. people are interested in leaving the pods because the chronicles described it as a thing we sometimes do.alternatively, why not just go nuts with it and give us a frogger-like mini game that represent pushing our cargo around on the deck! watch out for that sleeping janitor! give us a kinect extension that forces us to gesture eat virtual hamburgers before undocking so our character won't starve! (screw you so hard if you take that seriously)+1 for hanger by default, hud button to decant."
"the current war declaration system allows two, perhaps unintended consequences. 1) a 'high sec piracy' corp can remain continuously at war with up to three unwilling target corps/alliances for as long as they like. 2) a 'high sec industrial' corp can find itself the target of offensive war dec's, one after another, so that they are never at peace for an extended period of time.the war dec system is meant to provide an occasional element of danger in the normally peaceful environment of empire, imo. it is not meant to turn empire into low sec, for certain corps. therefore, i propose the following change:a) every week that a corp remains at war, the cost of offensive, non-mutual war declarations against that corp increases by a factor of 1.5. b) every week that a corp is at peace, its war scaling factor decreases by a factor of 1.5.this is to ensure that if a corp is forced into war unwillingly, they cannot be kept in that state forever.edit: increased costs for the aggressor's time at war removed from the proposal"
"but for some people, it is a way of life. stop trying to ruin the sandbox for people who don't play like you."
"but for some people, building ships and mining is a way of life. stop trying to ruin the sandbox for people who don't play like you"
"usually, that is a good principle for eve. each player can play how they like in their corner of the sandbox, and if another player doesn't like it they move to another corner.in this case, though, the targeted players have nowhere to go. inexperienced players don't have the knowledge or in-game character skills to prosper in low or null sec. if they also become perpetual war targets in high sec, some will decide there is no place for them in eve. personally, i would try to convince such people to evolve rather than give up, but not all will listen. if eve gets a great influx of new players with incarna, as hoped, a good number of them will be turned off from the game if they find themselves perpetual war targets of experienced pvpers the moment they leave the npc starter corp. this might be exactly what some eve veterans would like, but it is not in ccp's interest, nor the majority of current players."
"i support the principle in general, that war dec costs increase over time. not necessarily by the amount suggested."
"support, but please stop calling those scum \"pirates\" just because you see an yellow icon with a skull.those are just, and nothing else but griefers."
"i, too, enjoy my taxes increasing each year as i grow older instead of being just a levied percentage. government needs my monies, yo!not supported, point on the doll where the mean warddec corp touched you."
"please explain to me what constitutes a griefer as per the context and rules of this game."
"if i were a merc or pirate corp, i'd split the corp in two, find a way to keep assets between them sorted, and just alternate wardecs between them. same effect, but now with more pain-in-the-ass.also, war is a way of life to some, same as popping rats and hauling stuff is to others."
"why aren't they pirates? part of pirating is figuring out how to get at the juicy innards of your ship. some leave hisec to where more people are valid targets by default. others declare war to turn you into a valid target. it's all right there in the rules of the game. make them hurt for targeting you and you'll get fewer wardecs."
"of course, such hi-sec pirates could bypass part the scaling war costs by corp shuffling, just as those attacked can, even now, avoid war by corp shuffling.that is why eve provides vast regions of space where concord does not interfere in player vs. player combat, i.e. low sec and null sec. high sec is meant to be the safer zone for new/casual players, with less risk and less reward. insisting that high sec should also be a non-stop war zone is rather dogmatic."
"except the reward for hi-sec is pretty high for the minimal risk involved."
"i agree; however, war decs are a poor balancing mechanism. wars are disproportionately directed at the weakest, least experienced corps, thus the players who can reap the least reward from high sec face the greatest risk. the real money makers in high sec are npc-corp alts of veteran players, who have main characters in major alliances, and they are completely immune from war decs."
"what does bitter vet alts in npc corps have to do with war decs? i though the topic was about player ran corps getting war dec'd. anyway, to keep this in line to determine if there is a real issue, what percentage of player corps, on average, are actually under a war dec? out of those, how many are pve based?"
"my anecdotal experience, in-game and from reading the forums, is that war dec's are quite common now, especially for pve corps with mostly new players. only ccp would have access to statistically significant data, and they have not provided it to us players, or is there some fansite where all war decs are logged?"
"to counter your anecdotal,in game and regular forum whoring, that war decs are pretty rare, as a matter of fact, some pve mission corps have never seen a war dec in their 2 years of existence.i am pretty sure there are some data some where."
"you're right .. i was in such a corp a few years ago. times seem to have changed. the two-year old corp you mention is, of course, now two years old and would not be an attractive war target any more.the recent trend is, there are a lot more 'high sec piracy' corps now than there used to be, and they single out relatively new, easy-to-kill war targets. that interpretation is consistent with both your experience and mine."
"it is not the age of the corp, but the resources and numbers they have. targeting small corps is not really all that fun, and useless in keeping your guys focused enough to log in and shoot others in the face. the ones that do dec small corps, are normally just cutting their teeth on the game play to move on to better things. if they stay in focused on dec'ing small corps, they will get bored and burn out or disband to a space rich pve corp that sicks mercs on them. and the first time one of those tiny little corps actually put up a fight, the defending corp will find them selves much better and stronger for it, and the dec'ing corp might just fade away. darwinism works both ways. most \"pirates\" as you call them, will rather dec a corp / alliance that is space rich to extort or provides a target rich environment."
"i agree with these changes and would go further:hawk should get significant bonus to missile damage (+5% rof per level).vengeance should get significant bonus to rocket damage (+5% rof per level).wolf and jaguar should get +7.5% tracking per level.retribution should switch a -1 high for a +1 midishkur should have a 10% bonus to drone hitpoints and damage per skill level bonus and lose a high slot.enyo should have a 7.5% bonus to armor repairer effectiveness per level repair bonus and 15m3 drone bay and bandwidth (not 5m3).all assault frigates should also have a generic role bonus of +25% afterburner speed boost as was discussed a long time ago.in addition to this i believe ships smaller then cruisers should get an additional 10% reduction in sig radius."
"the masturbating hand social club offers their support."
"i suport this but i have some idea baout this. that fof launchers and misles are more use full.make them realy usefull that they can be lounched agenst not only missiles and rockets, but ageinst lasers, projectiles etc. depends fith type off defenders you using.a. ati laser defender- culd make soem small cloud off somting (forgot word) that enemy cant shoot true it some seconds and need to move in difrent postion to atack you.b. agenst missiles - not jsut hit one misles how its now but make false tagets for missile targeting systems that each misle takes some not right taget and just blows up there. to protectim ship from geting soem hit not alla offthem but some.c. artelery and autocannons, to can make soem coud off soermting where thos bullets stuck or hit false taget and enemy ned move to difret postion.d. rails can be the same as arty.that wil increase usuage off defenders not only in solo pvp but in fleet battles to. restricvtion can be that you can fit only 1 defender launcher.afcors here can go to the ting to crreat spetioal ship for sucjh role in fleets with can flood batle field with difrent kinds off tagret ditruptions fields andf false targets.propbably not in right post but eny way i got fast idea and writed it up ;)"
"when can i start selling my millions of loyalty points on the market? >:(so much :effort: to convert millions of loyalty points into items, and then move those items to high-sec to sell them...contracts would work too."
"god forbid you'd have to put effort into it... i don't think i'd mind seeing a set block of isk in lp stores, though. but it should give you the lowest isk/lp ratio of the options. the current system at least ensures that faction mods enter the game. with a \"just the isk thx\" option added, you'd see a huge shift in faction gear prices."
"won't happen, has been discussed before. you'd run into massive rp issues with people having tons of lp with corps/factions who have them kos.:effort: is fine but do you have any idea how many times you have to click to spend a million lp?ps: fw lp are so plentiful that millions are the smallest denomination would personally be satisfied if the lp store interface was redone so we could buy x amounts instead of one at a time."
"at present, the lp store is one of the game's largest isk sinks. introducing a \"gimme cash, kthx\" option would completely undermine that.i wouldn't be opposed to a dynamic rebalancing of tag requirements, but turning the lp store into an isk fountain is a patently ******ed idea."
"i play battlefield bad company 2, and it is nothing like eve, and has no rpg elements. it is a very good game though. i wasn't saying i didn't want dust to have a level of awesome in a persistent universe; just that i didn't want it to get quite so bogged down in the market and industry, when it was originally presented as a persistent shooter.one thing i don't like about eve:let's say i buy a rokh for example. 100 million + isk.i outfit it with weapons and tank. 50 million + isk.to do this, i had to grind for 1 week, 8 hours a day at 4 million isk per hour in highsec. that rokh is worth, at a minumum to me, $560i fly out of jita 4-4, and make my way to a mission hub: dodixieon my way to uedama, someone scans me on my way into system, and i get jumped on the other side of the gate losing my rokh and all fittings.i just lost a 40 hour work week; the equivalent of $560 or more, even at a low payscale.now try using that same example with a hulk, or another t2 ship of cruiser class or higher.now toss in the fact that a second ganker podded me immediately after, (i was specifically targeted), and i lost my clone and full set of implants valued at 1.2 billion isk.this is a fictional event, and just an example of course, but the effect remains the same. you might argue that gankers lose ships too, to which i would have to point out that--due to their profession--they make a lot more isk than me. now apply that same logic to a game like dust, where people are supposed to shoot each other, as mercenaries working for alliances in eve. suddenly going to battle seems a lot less interesting, particularly when some of your upgrades come from the mt store.none of this really matters of course, as it is still speculation, and that is only one issue among many i have with dust being too much like eve.it's not a matter of elitist at all. i am a member of evga gaming forum, and have been since..idk 2005 or something. i know what these people play, and what their interests are for the most part. i attempted, along with others to get them interested in eve, and--mostly--they wouldn't have it. there are currently something like 7 retired players, and 8-11 players who maintain sub's that i am aware of. that does not include myself. of the 7 retired members, at least 3 quit because of grind vs pvp. i can't say regarding the others, but i suspect most were just bored.for the number of people we are talking about here, that is a relatively small group. the gaming community alone is 3763 members, of which 1101 are currently online. given that, i'd say no, eve is not a common choice amongst fps--or even most--gamers. sure 3700 people equates to very little in the wider picture, but statistically it is relevent."
"first null sec sov mechanics need an overhaul anyway, and maybe dust is a good way to shake things up. there as as many care bears in null as there are in high sec, and the risks are lower in null but the profit higher. risk verses reward in null is broken...second i see this as a way for ccp to recover $$$ from the real money traders -now they'll have to spend some of the money that they make from eve on gear for their dust troops so they don't lose their planets and sov. seems to me to be a brilliant solution"
"so your argument that microtransaction and plex are different is that buying a nyx is a big irl cash commitment? you know, it doesn't have to be a nyx  10 battleships for a small sized corp is a pretty big deal for example."
"the nyx was brought up by furb killer and i used the math to address his point. you are correct that 10 battleships can be a big deal as well. what is a large sum of isk or rl $$ is up to the individual to decide. for me having any item that is available by circumventing the in game creation process with a visa is unacceptable."
"be bit more realistic in your fiction please.....if you can afford to fly around with 1.2 billion in implants in your head, you make more then 4mil an hrif you can fly and t2 fit a rokh (coulda used a better ship for the example!) you can make more then 4 mil per hrif you had to grind for 40 hours to buy that rokh based on the two lines above you sir fail at eveunless you went out of your way to take a giant dump on someone there is no way a group(yes it takes more then 1 or 2 people to suicide gank a bs) is going to waste their time ganking a t2 fit rokh of all things. if you are going to try and prove a point with examples i recommend making them as realistic as possible to lend credibility to your argument."
"by the same token many feel that any item / advantage gained by circumventing conventional isk-raising activities (mining, missioning) is unacceptable.not only can your wartarget generate isk in a way that you can't affect, they are also using real life cash to get a in game advantage, over you, at your expense, at the peril of a corporation / alliance / ships / assets / structures that you have spent legitimate in game time and in game resources at requiring.i'm not saying that i like aurum,i'm just confused how people can complain over that and not realise the flaws of plex."
"i agree with your statement on plex. the only difference is that the isk and the items the isk buys come from effort and time by an eve player to either grind the isk through any number of sources or build the items. with $$$ for items (even vanity only) items are spawned for use in game with absolutely zero involvement from the player base.the only thing that buying a gtc then converting it to plex will get you is a plex. that plex is only good for one thing and that is extending game time. now it will be two things.. buying game time and buying aurum which in turn allows you to circumvent in game industry as a whole and have items spawned in your hanger."
"wtz was added for practical reasons. i don't know if the forum/devlog archives go back that far, but before it was implemented, there were many million bookmarks set out at 15km from gates/stations to achieve the same effect, and it was proving to be a major db headache.that being said, i give no support to this proposal."
"there are thoughs that will cry no. i realy dont know why though.1.) if you want to auto pilot to 0km and auto dock at your picked station there are 3rd party programs that will do this for you already anyways mite as well just put it in the game.2.) \"there's nothing you can do in transit anyway, except take forever (and use the facilities), and be vulnerable. most ships used for hulling have little to no capabilities to defend themselves, and in some cases there so slow it ads an 30 min's to an hour on travel time (or it seems like it.)\" copy&pasted becouse it's so freaking true and stupidly so."
"wtz is fine has it is has mechanic, yes it has his own little issues sometimes meaning you don't warp to zero but at 2600, nothing really important but still tiny little bug.if people don't want to be behind their screen when they play or don't want to have it in first window then you're doing it wrong.don't play at workdon't lie to your wifestop afk youp<U+FFFD>rnwhat about stop playing? -you don't have issues with wtz any more."
"it's fine as it is, i just wish there was auto dock to station, if the route end at a station."
"wtz was added when ccp caved to the whiny players that were complaining about the instajump bm nuking."
"not supported"
"ccp recently published a devblog about possibilities for 3rd party developers to monetize their work on projects all arround eve.now while the basic idea is a cool thing and very welcome, one clause mentioned in it is totally unacceptable:this a slap in the face of everyone who is putting time and efford into providing tools all arround eve. basically it means if you take a donation or charge isk for a service you provide to enhance the game, you have to pay 99$ a year to ccp.do something. now."
"1.0"
"thumbs up. why? read:"
"supportin~"
"i agree with ccp. if you intend to profit from their product then you should require some sort of 'commercial license' and $99/year is hardly unreasonable.what i would have liked to see is an option to pay in plexs."
"./signed \\ l'> ll llama~ || || '' ''"
"i fully endorse this opinion whatever it may be."
"1.0"
"1.0"
"over 4 years, i roughly got 1.5bn isk in donations thats 375mio isk a year, so basically you say its ok that i should pay 99$ a year to maybe get 375mio isk or that i have to actually require people to pay.. right."
"when you quit eve, can i have your stuffz?+1"
"agreed. if you're making money from eve, pay up. $99 is **** all."
"save 3rd party devs"
"i agree with this post it is going to make the 3rd party market smaller and push a lot of good applications that are currently active and updated and fixed out of the way. $99 dollars i think they are taking a play out of apples hand book."
"save 3rd party devs!!"
"if you are making money then yes, but what people are upset about is if they ask for a donations they need a license. if they offer the service for isk, they need a license.if you are not making the $99 a year then its not worth it, you will lose a lot of services."
"just occurred to me, just how much free advertising all those developers of 3rd party apps have been giving eve. in addition to keeping subscribers onboard by providing tools that make eve more enjoyable. shutting down the free work provided by these developers also shuts down the free advertising that their sites provide for eve. i don't think you'll get $99 from developers that are trying to cover their server and bandwidth fees by providing a 'donate here' link. i think you'll lose a good percentage of your subscriber base as well as not having newcomers to replace them, due to the loss of advertising."
"no ccp that\"s a bad ccp!1!!!1"
"dear ccp,write the third party apps yourself. and then defenestrate yourselves onto a broom handle, bottom first."
"people will sell their app for money, earn maybe $50 a year, and not pay ccp $99 a year. ccp can then track them down to whatever country they're in, hire local lawyers and sue them either for the $50 or $99, depending on local laws. see? it all works out."
"i think a commercial license is reasonable..... as long as you can pay for it in isk!!!"
"5 clones just isn't enough anymore, especially if you have the isk and want specific clones for specific tasks."
"hmm why not, doesnt hurt i think.even for the risk to be flamed, i could imagine with such a skill the jump times could be reduced as well.training time multiplyer 5lvl 0 = 24 hrslvl 1 = 21lvl 2 = 18lvl 3 = 15lvl 4 = 12lvl 5 = 9 hrs"
"i prefer ere's idea but eve is a big place. as you said sometimes 5 clonee just aren't enough."
"funny.supportus maximus!"
"and what's your point with comparing reality to a science fiction game? well, other than confirm exactly why reds deserve what they brought on themselves. as for sec status repair, try to actually check all my kills. then check my sec status. and--whoa! guess what! i'm still here! does that boggle your mind?! maybe u just need to htfu and handle the consequences. can't handle a little punishment, go to 0.0 or quit...or in your case, sure, go ahead and /wrist..."
"that is just it, there are no consequences. you can go on a killing spree, tank your security and then go to the mens club (0.0) and get it back in nearly complete safety.looking at your kills i can understand why you oppose a change such as this. it would mean that you actually have to put yourself at risk instead of shooting unarmed ships and ratting sec in blue seas."
"suport this good idea, that will halp some ppl understand that sec status its important not just number in line.forgot to suport :)"
"i would support this but i would like to see the secstatus gained from low-sec rats increased slightly.ccp should also look into other ways to raise one's sec status other than grinding rats. killing outlaw players for example. this should have a major positive impact on ones secstatus imo."
"with the 9001 afk-cloaking whine threads, i beg to differ; since they're too scared to continue when 1 red shows up in local, that's the equalizer right there.u talk about risks and consequences...news flash--it's called automatic ship loss; u know, when u're guaranteed to actually...lose your ship? that's more risk and consequences than most -10s would ever have to face, or to be more accurate, want to face.news flash--they're called kill rights, only u don't want to exercise your kill rights (even though it's much easier to do so in high sec) because u're too scared to since u can't hide behind a fleet. if u don't want to lift a finger to enforce that risk and have ccp do it instead then that's your fault for being lazy and scared.not to mention, any -10 can circumvent their risks and consequences with an alt. i can understand why u'd still want a change such as this; u want high sec to be 100% safe, just like every other -10 here who wants to log on their high sec alt to afk isk print in safety, especially when they're waiting out an actual fight by shooing away their enemies with boredom.and with all of your risk-aversion, u're asking ccp to put in more risks and consequences for your enemies, and at the same time, more safety and risk-free alt-hiding for yourselves. keep dreaming or htfu 'cause it ain't gonna happen."
"that is part of the original suggestion i think, to bring the gain up to approximately the same level as is currently possible in null .. it shouldn't become more of a timesink than it already is, balance is in the inherent risk involved in lowsec ratting.perhaps if we can persuade ccp to give us a viable bounty hunting system instead of the exploitable mess we have now the sec. for killing other pirates would make sense .. difficult to do without creating obvious loophole of smartbombing highsec to go instantly to -10 and then killing that alt repeatedly.valid if insurance was voided when concord intervenes, until then it can not be used as argument as insurance skews the risk/reward heavily in your favour.we both know that carebears have neither the skills nor the inclination to pursue those right, if that was the norm then suiciders would have some other hapless guys to kick around .. might be valid if/when kr become tradeable commodities.i (veshta yoshida) am in the militia and rarely exit low-sec. could care less about security in high-sec to be honest.as for alt use, yes they are a way to get around consequences in just about all areas of eve. since they are not exclusively by pirates in that capacity used the argument also be discarded."
"supported, as long as sec gains of lowsec rats are increased to match those of null sec rats that will be removed"
"good idea. supported. no reason null should have sec gains if it doesn't have sec losses. i don't know about removing it from hisec though, as long as it's scaled appropriately (i.e. it takes forever)."
"just for this i'd say hell yeah twice. their tears are more valuable than any carebeer kill, really.ccp do it nao"
"u neglected to mention the \"reward\" part relying completely on the target and u've forgotten the sec hit u already stated, which is obviously so painful for u.and what about their mains and the consequences of their decision to hide behind a weak char when carebearing it up? that's what i thought.1. u say u're in fw and u could \"care less\" about security in high sec, yet u're whining about suicide ganking. and the best part? u cry about risk vs reward while u're hiding behind the safety of your fw blob. plz continue--i'd really love to hear it.2. and not all suicide gank victims r exclusively newbies or pure carebears (without pvp alts) either so by your logic, any whines about suicide ganking, namely yours, r invalid."
"in all honesty; i could care less for about the cloaking part in general. the only reason i added it was to throw a bone to people who can't stand the thought of losing local and would become all emo. i spend the vast majority of time in w-space and have zero problem with current cloaking mechanics.still we have to learn to give and take; and if you want local removed you will need to make some concessions somewhere."
"remove the distance to the cloaked ship and i'll support this.and a resounding **** no to everything mars theran posted."
"the take is real-time updates of local, the give is putting the fear of empty space back into people i can see hisec having good lore reasons for realtime local. concord always know exactly who and where you are, after all. maybe timed or sig-related delays in losec to allow quick ambushes. go wh style in 0.0 or maybe give control to sov-holders via deployables.edit: cloaks are just fine as is."
"you are complaining about what's called a modal window. they are a terrible design element. they prevent their user from appropriately responding to other activities. they interrupt workflow. and, in eve, they are everywhere.the appropriate response is to kill it with fire."
"death to modal windows"
"very annoying waste of time, get rid of them."
"not supported. it's a balancing element to suicide gank efficiency, among other things. there is a reason there's no \"do not show again\" tickbox, it's working as intended."
"and how about the ones that have nothing to do with suicide ganking, have no tickbox and only the one option?"
"it has recently come to my attention that ccp, and the csm, lack an efficient way to transmit information to the player base.before continuing, i want to make something very clear:ccp - i'm not sure how aware you are of it, or if you even care, but, for the most part, i am proud to be a member of this community, and i'm sure most others playing eve are as well. for 8 years you have brought not only impeccable vision to contemporary gaming, but you have built, from the ground up, one of (in my opinion) humanity's greatest achievement - a living, breathing, and a frighteningly real virtual existence.that being said, of late, you seem to be slipping. you built the universe, as gods, and we populated it. you made the rules, and we exist by them. eve, however, isn't just spreadsheets, market orders, apis and space ships. it's alive. we, the players, while beholden to the carbon engine and the eve servers, as the body is beholden to blood and organs; are the soul - that which makes eve great; that which makes new eden real.you need to rethink your business strategy - you need to take a good, hard look at yourselves, and think 'where would we be without the players'?i'll tell you - you probably wouldn't exist. it is because of us - the subscribers - that you exist. it has been our unwavering loyalty that has kept eve and ccp alive.i'm not asking for anything in particular.i'm not asking that you change your timelines, development plans, or anything.all i'm asking for (and i think many will be with me on this one) is a little transparency when you're considering changes to the game. with that in mind, i suggest a re-evaluation of the player > csm > ccp interaction. perhaps televise, via the internet, csm meetings (ala c-span). you could hold polls for registered subscribers on suggested game changes. the benefit here, is twofold:1) change is tough for us players. i have invested some time, but others have invested what seems like lifetimes into this game and community. when devblogs come out with new 'features', it's often said that development is already progressing on them. put simply, we feel left out.2) taking that into account, this would help you direct your development efforts (read: development costs) in a way that would benefit players, and keep them resubbing, instead of just infuriating and frustrating them.so, without further adieu,itt: - suggestions for methods to improve communication lines between players, the csm and ccp.- impromptu poll for support. please include reasons why.- no rage, **** ccp nonsense, and otherwise non-constructive posts. the divide is wide enough without more anti-ccpism.let's bring something constructive to the table here."
"i applaud your thoughts and ideas, but i feel i have to disagree with the \"transparency\". one of the most glaring problems if they open up what they plan on doing \"in 6 months we plan to start on project x which will accomplish y while fixing/replacing z\"this opens up advance knowledge for scripters, bot programers, reverse engineers and other people who could take and use this information to either get game breaking software in final stages just awaiting a ui release to finalize the changes or to emulate/steal the ideas for use in other projects/games.i wish we could be a fly on the wall for developer meetings but i understand why its the way it is and why there exist things like non-disclosure agreements.a more realistic method would be to develop changes into a semiusable (but buggy fashion) and get them on a test server with daily code recompiles and let people beta test them while in development. you get the kind of feedback that actually matters \"you changed the base speed of a rifter to 6.3km/s with navigation 1... while awesome, was this intentional?\" and none of the \"this is bull**** ccp why did you make this change, it breaks everything and makes the dramiel worthless\""
"proposing removal of time limit on clone jumps... if clone is in same station you're in. this removes a major cause for risk aversion, without creating exploitable instant travel spam. carebears are no longer limited to one pvp session per day."
"maybe two jumps, each with its own 24 hour timer. you could hit one every 12 hours or do 2 quickly, but only every 24.otherwise, no. might as well just add another layer of ship mods with no timer at all."
"sometimes brief lag is annoying.the paper cut:frequently, after a gate jump, i try to reengage cloak immediately after aligning or starting a warp. i clearly do one (start warp), then the other (hit cloak). but if i don't pause exactly the right amount in between, i get the \"can't, you're still cloaked\" message. i can't risk spamming the cloak button 'cause that could turn it off again and get me killed. so i have to wait and see if the message hits and just try to react quickly if it does. this might also get me killed.healed:if i do something that breaks gate cloak and do something else that requires my being uncloaked, it needs to just do one then the other, no matter how close in time the two keys were hit.---drone ui:- \"launch drones\" button(s) of useful size, and not buried in a menu. one \"launch all\" button if you only have five or all one type. multiple if you have groups.- more keyboard shortcuts for launching specific drone groups- focus fire setting that works. my drones still split themselves on occasion.- target priority. nothing too fancy like \"sort by dps/tank ratio\", just \"tackle first\", or even \"frigates first\" is a huge step up. options to not engage a type at all could handy, too.- ai range limit. keeps drones within a set range of your ship. only limits wandering, is overridden by direct orders.- let drones be in more than one group. i launch my predefined \"speed\" set, and it tries to grab 5 warriors. launch my \"dps\" set and it grabs 3 hammerheads and 2 of the same warriors.---clone costs:pvpers tend to have less money as it is, what with all the sploding we do. nullsecers on top of that almost always lose the pod if there's a bubble involved. the richest of us almost never risk their pods. maybe a monthly/weekly cost tied to quality, plus a flat fee for replacements?"
"i just started playing eve again due to school being let out and everything and all this incarna stuff is sounding pretty bad to me, can we just cancel it or something? i dont mean to be rude or anything but i always thought it was vaporware but now that its coming to fruition as a half finished patch, im getting kinda nervous. expansions in the past have been buggy, often requiring more than 5 patches to fix what they broke as well as extremely long down times. keep in mind those expansions did not have a disclaimer saying they were going to be buggy. in the vdb however you say something about bugs being expected so i can only imagine how much worse its going to be now.seriously though, my alt just finished all leadership skills and i wanna do some solo pvp not download patches so just cancel/add an option to not load station. or else i think its going to be like the old \"new\" lolforums and your just going to end up taking it back and working on it for 18 more months. fix all that other stuff that people are yelling about that just require tweaking variables and crap. k thanks bye"
"ccp zinfandel clarifies matters:oh, and we have video of all the meetings, it's useful when drafting the minutes."
"i seem to remember watching day 2 of the alliance tourney when they showed the ishukone scorp and it was stated that the ship would be rolled out for aurum only this summer. it was also stated that they would transition to the exchange a scorp + aurum for the ishukone version. this transition wouldn't happen until late fall. so unless i am on some really good crack ccp planned to do this \"test\" for 3-4 months regardless of what the csm advised. the only reason ccp is pausing, and i assure you this is just a pause, is because of the massive outcry from the player base in multiple threads in multiple forum sections. it also didn't help that ccp threw the csm under the bus however inadvertently by saying you ok'd and supported this \"test\".one thing i want to remind people of-- when has ccp said they were going to fix or correct something (other then an issue that prevented the masses from playing the game) and actually did it in a reasonable time? or for that matter even bothered to do anything about it at all? this breeds distrust in ccp from the player base. i completely understand why people were and still are upset over this issue. ccp's track record isn't good when it comes to delivering on what they commit to."
"thanks for the clarification csm dude..the problem with having even a 10 minute test of said matters is that there are some very rich people that play eve.. and i have no doubt that someone thought about putting 10's of thousands of real life dollars (if the ish scorp is not that much higher than it's mineral cost) to reprocess a huge amount of free minerals... because no one really thinks a scorp is game breaking.. but what about the supers made from the free minerals."
"both ccp and the csm stated that they talked about this, and that ccp asked for the csms opinion on this topic. i never said anything like \"asking permission\".that is the point  the actual item wouldn't be a part of the exchange at first (originally planned time span for this stage: 3-4 months). so, since non-cosmetic, non-vanity items would be spawned out of thin air, it would be an issue.as trebor mentioned, the meetings are recorded. besides, internet spaceships are serious business!"
"your concerns go in the right direction. you wouldn't even need to spend rl cash on it, since you can buy plex with isk and convert those plex to aurum.the process would go about like this:buy plex in jita.convert plex to aurum.in a station in deep 0.0: buy sparkling scorpion from aurum.reprocess sparkly scorpion to minerals.convenient, risk-free minerals!depending on the price of plex, the sparkle scorpion, and the minerals, it could also go like this:buy plex in jita.convert plex to aurum.buy sparkling scorpion from aurum.reprocess sparkly scorpion to minerals.sell minerals.profit!goto 1."
"some of the responses of the csm from the gd thread:edit: quote-fu"
"you forgot the quote from vile rat in which he says he cant be bothered to read the 14 pages of outcry.also the csm should quit over this.they said they are opposed to anything other than vanity items.or ccp is using them to justify the one week magic out-of-thin-air-ship-sales test, by perverting their statements during the conversations. in which case the csm is a sham and any member with dignity would gtfo.or the csm lied to the people they represent and found the one week magic out-of-thin-air-ship-sales test acceptable, in which case the csm is a sham and any member with dignity would gtfo. or you should just stay in your golden cage and enjoy your time while grabbing those ankles hard."
"thiswe all know that ccp has a track-record of fixing stuff they did put into the game half finished.. right.can't believe the csm accepted this.even more so.. if they want to test the aur shops creation of ships from thin air, how about using sisi - the testserver - for that?that's the server where such stuff doesn't affect the economy of tq and can be played with as long as it needs for polishing.am i in the wrong movie here or what?"
"ifnon-vanity items, like a ship, are sold instead of new paint of a ship, it is money for just an ingame item.so, sooner or later we weill pay $ or  for titans, t3 or battleships?everything in eve is created by players - except a complete battleship?are you nuts?are the csm delusional?i am really ****ed off, ccp!and even more ****ed off, csm!what sleeping lazyheady nonbrainer could say yes?"
"this **** sucks .really, poping ships out of thin air = broken game = a lot people quitting."
"as opposed to selling plex, and using the isk to buy minerals?it would only be an issue if the aur-only sparkle-scorpion reprocesses to more minerals than the direct route, and given these would have been at a premium to the price of a regular scorpion (via isk->plex->aur), this would not have been the case afaict."
"although i agree with you that the chances for that happening are slim, you should never underestimate the talent of eve players to exploit such mechanics, nor should you underestimate the ability of ccp to **** up something like this (remember the pos structures when pi was introduced?)."
"does that include the discussions the take place down the pub?"
"you forget that the mining of those minerals takes time and buying up enough minerals for a big number of supers can become very expensive. if you throw enough money in, there will be a brake-even point.and if there is an ignoble exchange in every station you can spawn them everywhere and you dont even have to haul them."
"i'm not sure what to think of the csm right now. the \"one week test\" sure looks a lot more like a test of mt directly for non-cosmetic items than a general test of the new system. so either you're being suckered into okaying a trial run of something that should never be considered, or you are trying to sucker us into letting it slide.we can't let this in. it's not about whether it affects the markets significantly. if you only need a week to get the proper basic scorpion to painted scorpion exchange working, then take that week. take a month if you need. how about a year?we can wait. prove to us this isn't a (not so) covert trial run for a future cash-for-ships system."
"side point: the sparkle scorp should not appear in game as \"ishukone watever scorpion\" or \"special hyper mega alpha director's cut posh scorp\" or even \"custom scorp\". i'll need to buy a second monitor or something to hold the extra-wide overview to get past the adjectives to the actual ship type.nice and thin useful column:| | scorpion| blackbird| falcon| tempesthorrible and fat useless column:|| ishukone watch sc...| uber1337 omgwtf r..."
"never going to happen. the core of this issue is that rmt happens anyway - it's just a question of ccp taking steps to legitimize it through channels that aren't going to be damaging to the in-game economy, or the gameplay itself."
"if you dont understand the difference beetwen reprocessing ships created out of thin air and buying minerals , how the hell have you become csm"
"you are forgetting one very important step in the process of isk generation. the isk that one gets for selling a plex came from someone , somewhere down the line who took the time to earn the isk through in-game actions. the only way to earn something from the money store is to expend the effort and time to enter a credit card number. last time i checked we use isk not visa's in game.people will continue to use the argument that players will sell the items purchased in the money store on the market or through contracts for isk however the fact remains that items purchased for aurum in the money store(even just vanity items) are initially spawned into the game with the use of rl $$$$$."
"@everyone: trebor has indeed understood the difference between isk->plex and aurum->ship, no need to lecture him any further about this."
"please see this post from ccp zinfandel for the correct series of events.tl;dr: csm not quite as fail as it first appeared."
"it is a way to get a $-for-ships trial into the game to see how people('s wallets) respond. the \"only a test\" rhetoric is to pacify people like you into letting it slide.so whether the csm is allowing the \"test\" out of ignorance, sincerity or malice is immaterial. this approval demonstrates their inability to act in the interest of eve players and thus warrants a no-confidence motion.*if ccp need time to complete the system, they can take that time and release the sparkle scorp exchange when it's finished.*i'm assuming of course that the op has actually got it right. support withheld, pending further research.---plex and no further!"
"i think the csm is still against microtransactions. they were just naive to believe the one week test with ships for $$$ was for technical reasons.i too believe ccp wanted to see how the playerbase would react. i still have confidence in the csm. lets hope they will forward our sentiment towards mt's to ccp."
"supported.quoting myself"
"it really would be a shame if the csm could do nothing to stop mt - as i see in the forums here (which my not be representative at all) about 80% of the playerbase are strictly against mt - even the conmetics-only-mt. the rest ist somwhere divided among \"cosmetics-onyl-is-ok\" and \"don't-care\" opinion. so why the hell isn't the csm strictly representing the players who voted for them and give a clear \"no\" to ccp regarding mt??during the last few years it seems ccp acually dont care about the eve players and their issues with the game at all. just check the forums and you'll find a large bunch of proposals/whinings/nice ideas being completely ignored by ccp even with dozens of players supporting it - not even a comment a la \"we cant do that!\"so i'm starting to ask whats csm good for - except for free trip to iceland, having some nice smalltalk without results and signing a nda to have sth. to hide behind when there are some serious questions on the horizon. why? 'cos it seems csm is damned by ccp to only nod with the head when ccp serves them another bit of information what actuall will happen with eveps: sorry for bad english.."
"i'm not sure exactly where this is coming from; i watched the at-ix live stream on sunday with the dev who's working on this system, and he specifically, explicitly said that they would require a t1 ship as part of the price, for exactly that reason. and that's also why it won't be available on day 1 of incarna, because the actual code for doing that isn't ready yet."
"if anything they should limit the amount of isk that can be bought. i don't mind buying plex for isk (i pay for my accounts that way), it's also fine if someone sells plex or two for some extra pvp capital. but no one should ever be able to buy isk enough to build a sc."
"they are doing so little about rmt that they are effectively allowing it.."
"no, the supercapital is overpower against sub capfleet. this is the main problem in eve. i have some idea to balance them.titan : increase the size of the guns ( bigger then dread). same dps on capital ship, but less dps on sub fleet.dd 750'000 hp, but the damage are the real damage (don't care about resistance).rebalance capacitor for titan (standard weapon don't use capa, the energy is already in the ammo).eccm 801 dd kill (carrier and dread)4 dd kill a supercarrier6 dd kill a titanthe dd use 60 % of capa for each race of titan\"less efficient against bs, about same against carrier and dread, more against supercarrier\".supercarrier : remote te possibilty to put this module on the ship (capital energy transfert, capital remote armor, capital transfert shield), remove the ecm burst. less fighter bomber but more dps on each (same dps then now)eccm 50\"need support of carrier for the tanking, less fb decrease the lag and more easy to kill for sub cap fleet\"carrier : same then nowdread : same then now ( but can lock more target, 2 more pls).new cap ew: (work cap and super cap) you cannot use this weapon on ship in triage or siege mode.you can fit one high slot with these module. the tanking is a buffer tanking not capital armor or capital shield booster amarr : capital neutralisercapital neutralizer : 15k energy every 5 minutes (max high slot) (cycle 5minutes stacked, and use also strongtium)gallente : capital disruptor 60 kmcapital disruptor : 60 km (cycle 5minutes stacked, and use also strongtium)minmatar : capital webifier 40 kmcapital webifier : reduce the speed by 60 % (cycle 5minutes stacked, and use also strongtium)caldari : capital ecmcapital remote ecm (cycle 5 minutes stacked, and use also strongtium) ecm force like 30 not more but work also on cap and super cap. time the target will be jammed 1 minute (one target only not area zone)with this idea, the support fleet will be more important. the balancing between cap and super cap better also."
"you also have to keep in mind that titans are also overpowered since they can engage and destroy any target on field. group of supercarriers and titans is pretty invulnerable to anything that does not outnumber them hilariously (providing that fcs are not tards of course). server is liable to break before you have enough subcaps that you might be able to kill something. coordinating and resupplying thousands of pilots is much harder than working in smaller \"elite outfits\".dds handle logistics ships, triage carriers and bubblers. sc can spank everything else and can attack pos and sov structures with titans. titans can also portal whatever subcapital ships you might require past camps (mainly tackle).dreads can`t handle supercap blob (too weak buffer and are unwieldy in lag) and carriers get outright vollied by dd / fb spam which makes all types of rr shenanigans irrelevant."
"i would like to propose 4 separate changes to the market order system. one is a concrete fix to a problem often complained about; the other three is to make traders' lives easier, as well as bring the market more into line with expectations found in real life markets. the four proposals are partially separable; the first is standalone. the third and fourth, while implementable separately and without the second, won't make much sense without it.1. modification of margin trading with respect to minimum volume orders.currently, if you attempt to sell to a bidder who has insufficient funds to cover their order up to the minimum order volume, the result is that the trade is canceled with no exchange taking place. this opens up the door to scamming, and does not make sense in a market context. the seller is attempting a good-faith transaction with a buyer who cannot meet the requirements of the transaction, despite having placed some portion in escrow as an apparent but insufficient (and false, in the case of scammers) show of good faith on the buyer's side.instead, the minimum order volume should only be checked on the seller's side; if they buyer has insufficient funds to cover the sale, they should still be forced to buy as much as they are able to pay for, and the remaining order canceled.+ no more margin scamming.2. changes to crossed market price dispute resolution.under the current system, crossed market price disputes are settled in favor of the older order's party; this does not make sense from a fiduciary point of view.this may require a bit of explanation. a crossed market is one in which the buyer's maximum bid is higher than a seller's minimum ask; in this case, both parties could potentially receive a better price than they requested; the buyer is willing to pay more than the seller is asking, and the seller is willing to accept less than the buyer is offering. currently, this dispute is resolved in favor of the older order's party. thus, a buyer placing a buy order now will pay more to a seller who has an older order stating that they are willing to pay less; or a seller placing a sell order now will receive less than what a buyer with an existing buy order is willing to pay. if i were the broker in these cases, you'd want to fire me immediately (not to mention i'd face potential lawsuits or jail time).crossed markets should be resolved in favor of the newer order's party; that is, a new seller to the market should receive as much as buyers are willing to pay at that moment, and a new buyer to the market should pay as little as sellers are willing to accept. why else would we be paying brokers to do this?+ more responsible brokers.+ more predictable results from buy/sell orders.- may be harder to resolve market orders server-side.3. add all-or-none (aon) order flag.the buyer should be able to specify that a market order they are placing should be filled immediately and fully, or not filled at all. this, combined with #2, would allow them to place a single order and be assured that they will get the best price for all that they need to buy, or that they will know immediately that the order cannot be filled.4. add fill-or-kill (fok) order flag.the buyer should be able to specify that they only want to buy as much of a product as is currently available, at their specified price (or better, with #2), without having to worry about canceling the unfilled portion five minutes later. this would allow a player to buy up to a desired price without having to initiate multiple transactions.both #3 and #4 would result only in immediate orders (neither would ever result in an order being added to the open orders list). + both can forestall multiple transaction initiations (one order placed instead of many).+ both justify (possibly reduced) broker's fees (more isk sinks).- added server-side complexity might outweigh savings from above."
"surely not; the csm minutes will be nice, relaxing bedtime reading, with puppies and kittens on every page."
"can i just ask a dumb question, why the nda in the first place. really, if its stuff that is progress and being worked on for eve online, a game that is live not something that a year from release, why does it need to be shrouded in secrecy anyway. who's going to steal it, who cares other than eve online players. if they are filling your meetings with a bunch of stuff about wod and whatever they call the aurum store, then why are they telling about those games. they're not fully developed and csm' experience with eve won't help in the development of those other two games. fake edit: i could give a credit to ccp explaining exploits and they're fixes to the csm, that would be nda."
"imagine you were privy to information about blueprint mineral changes, moon redistributions, module/ship changes and had weeks or months to act on it .. csm members and their buddies could make trillions one example: gistii ab's sold for a couple of million prior to qr patch and rose to current level of 20m+ immediately following it.the way it was handled is how it should be, everyone got the same information at the same time by way of the patch notes."
"so, from what i can gather, the proceedings between ccp and the csm are so \"sooper sekret\" that there is an nda in place, right? what's the point of having \"player representation\" as embodied in the csm if things are kept so tightly shrouded in mystery that if you told us what was really going on you'd have to kill us? or to quote \"blazing saddles \"or are we just jerking off?\""
"the vast majority of things discussed at the csm summits are not covered by nda, and are disclosed in the minutes. in fact, i am sometimes surprised by how much ccp is willing to make public.there are, however, some things -- mostly related to upcoming changes to the game, statistics about the game (such as subscriber statistics), and ccp business strategy, that get sealed under nda."
"i can't wait for the notes. i have a feeling some nice info will be revealed. and yes, i can use some good news."
"no thanks.although an automated mining platform that is anchorable and can only be deployed in nullsec could be a good way to increase local industry there. it would also provide something for roaming gangs to shoot at to disrupt that local industry and promote home defense.but legalised macro mining - hell no."
"right then, i'm seeing a bunch of t3 kills, and a few others. i seem to be missing the hard proof of botting part. could you please provide some more information, otherwise i'll just say nice kills - insmother looks like a good place to hunt carebears in t3s."
"well, i have been known to post from time to time when i have something to contribute to a conversation. i can also be found on failheap and occasionally on the forum-that-must-not-be-named.there will be occasional lulls in the amount of message traffic; actual csm business (like doing the minutes) takes a lot of time, and sometimes there are situations where we just can't comment because of nda.i personally scan jita park, assembly hall and devblog threads more than gd, simply because of time constraints, but if there's a thread you think i need to be posting in, poke me on evemail."
"thanks, trebor, for showing your face here. i also applaud your effort to keep us up to date on various places throughout the internet.however, i can't hep thinking the csm's efforts would be better served if you focused your communications in one place that is easily visible by a majority of your electorate. i believe this place is here, or at least someplace that is directly linked from here. i also think while podcasts are a nice touch, written statements are ultimately more useful for most players to get up to date on your efforts.we have been told you folks met online a lot to discuss issues both old and current. would it inconvenience your mission overly if you were to post regular heads-ups on both your progress and your takes on current matters (and what you plan to to about these) in the manner of mittens' open letter?currently, i see a lot of players really upset or unsettled about certain happenings surrounding eve. please don't let them hanging."
"close but not quite - if you steal mission loot from somebody you are being shot at legally, and kill rights are only applied \"if you are unlawfully destroyed in secure space\" (from the wiki entry here). \"no kill rights are given against legal targets\".you get an aggression timer that allows you to reship and come back to kill them, but this is different to a \"kill right\".edit: i like the idea of transferable kill rights. free market prices would be better though."
"\"a typical ganker counter argument, as someone who has myself in the past ganked profitable targets i find it unconvincing and tbh i'd have welcomed the excitement of being a \"marked man\" to add some flavor and risk to hisec life.\"what did that mean, exactly?you welcome the being a marked man, but on the other hand you want whoever kills you to be free game to someone else for 1 month as revenge? you claim the counter argument is invalid but then validate it by claiming to doso yourself?ya'll highsec'ers are weird bunch"
"i have a problem with this, here's a scenario to illustrate:small, fast, hard to hit gang (say ab armor hacs) is running rings around a bunch of easy to hit big ships with slow tracking (say alphabaddons). one highly tanked alphabaddon stops and activates the offensively scripted module on a targeted ahac. it then has a number of its fleet hit it, not so much to kill the abaddon (large ehp) so it can be repped up fairly easily by the escorting guardians, but enough to vapourise an ahac. now imagine that with something like a carrier group.this would allow big hard hitting guns/missiles that normally struggle to track/sig small fast ships to bypass that tracking/sig issue and apply large damage onto small ships that would normally be able to get \"under the guns\", as they should."
"and the last nail in the coffin has been struck. well played everyone!"
"and yeah, verily, it hath come to pass."
"/signed"
"changes to hybrids and synergy with hybrid ship hulls (i.e. gallente and caldari).i've been reading the discussion threads on what to do about hybrids and the ships that use them and so i'd like to offer my own ideas on the matter;hybrids currently have 8 types of ammunition, each corresponding to their own range band. instead, take the 8 types of ammunition and split them into 4 ranges and 2 exclusive damage types. this makes ammo selection much, much simpler and gives the hybrid user more options while still retaining all 8 ammo types.for example, antimatter, plutonium, uranium and thorium cover the ranges that the 8 types used to, but now only do thermal damage. lead, iridium, tungsten and iron likewise cover the range spectrum, but only do kinetic damage. therefore, if i wanted to deliver thermal damage (e.g. vs blood raiders or shield-tanked ships) at extreme range, i would load thorium rounds. likewise, if i want to deal maximum damage at close range against serpentis or armor-tanked ships at close range, i would load lead.i also believe that doing so would increase the demand for certain types of hybrid ammo. when was the last time you saw anyone buying tungsten ammo? or buying anything but antimatter faction ammo from the lp store?hybrid ammo should also be fairly compact - ammo propelled by cap is going to be smaller vs. ammo propelled by mass. not a major issue, but one that makes intuitive sense.equally important is how ships that use hybrid weapons synergies with them. specifically, the ship bonuses and powergrid/cap use.unfortunately, i don't have enough experience with caldari railboats and eft to make many suggestions regarding pg or cap usage. i also am not in a position to comment on t2 hybrid ammo xp.having said that, i do like the idea of increasing dps and reducing alpha on hybrids by increasing rof and reducing cap cost per shot. having more compact ammo would help compensate for the added ammo consumption, if not the cost. tracking changes, though, remain a contentious issue that i don't have the experience to comment on.but i would recommend the following for gallente boats:1: change the hybrid damage bonus and any active tanking bonuses on drone boats to an armor bonus. reason being that drone boats don't really rely much on guns to do their damage, while increasing buffer seems a lot more flexible than increasing local tank.2: change the blaster boat bonuses to a tracking or damage bonus to hybrids and a speed bonus to propulsion mods (ab or mwd). the first addresses the particular strengths of blasters, while the other addresses the weakness of blasters.i suppose the hyperion would then become an odd ship - having a dps or tracking bonus and an armor buffer bonus instead of the expected prop bonus? maybe the hype is supposed to be suited for either rails or blasters? i dunnoit's important to note that none of these copy any other race's specialties exactly, and allow gallente ships to retain their own particular niche."
"|yes there is: 1. as example rise sell taxes both in statio nto the 5 % keep in 0.0 as it is now. 2. dont alow making alr mision runing corp put up minimum taxe fot them to lets say the same 11% that they cant put it down to 0.0 ( easy to monitore no office in 0.0 so pay 11% tax, dhit dont counts npc stations only sov station offices counts) eny way meny 0.0 allainces have taxes in allaince that corps pay. if corp wiling to get some ting adititonal to cover office retals etc. theu will need to increase taxe more than 11%."
"eve is famous in the mmo market for being a game that has a steep learning curve.the current new player experience is bewildering to newbs and needs improvement.in order to appreciate and understand the eve sandbox, its imperative to find and join a corp that fits the new players particular needs as well as teach them to get the most out of their desired activities.eve uni is famous for being a corp run by people dedicated to bringing new players up to speed and part of an corp events.so why can't ccp run their own corp for newbs - they have the resources to do so.i suggest that ccp use the factional warfare militias - specifically, make the fw militias run by ccp employees for new players. after all, if they can hire people to run the help channel and have the funds to create dust 514, they can sure as hell use the same resources to draw and retain new players to both eve and dust 514.after the new player does the tutorials, he has a bunch of shiny ships that he's itching to use. he is automatically assigned a militia based on his starting race and is directed to the corresponding militia hub system.every sunday and a rotating weekday, each militia schedules a fleet op of varying type - fw pvp, hisec/lowsec mining, tutorials, etc. naturally, there are going to be other players trying to grief or crash these events, so the ccp employee running them would need to be flexible. on other days, militia members are still close enough to each other to run their own ops if they like.from there players can choose player-run corps to fit their particular timezone, language and activity preferences."
"pretty much what has already posted, i want to add another thing:reduce the amount of times low fuel messages are sent to pos managers. it becomes annoying when the pos begs to be fed 6 times in a day. it becomes even more annoying when you have multiple accounts with you mail flashing with a load of notifications."
"just say no to pink bunnies on scorpions.... that is what hello kitty online is for. no!"
"noso many votes \"no\"... and they are mostly veteran players.i really don't like where it goes, and after playing the game for 6 years it may be a time to quit. to bad i just passed 100mil sp.what is better - a returning customer or a new customer?if ccp thinks that a new customer is better then... think again... or change marketing specialists.simple thing - this is a game for older people. if you change it to be a game for younger people older will quit. you can't have them all sitting in the same sandbox - it just does not work."
"noseen it before, no micro-transactions policy, then micro-transaction only for cosmetic items,but then wait and game changing items start showing up (anyone what a super dreadnought with a extra large drone bay that can lauch fighter-bombers... - just pay 500x in the store today..."
"nono micro transactions, not even for \"cosmetic items\", because once they're in, it won't stop at cosmetics (read \"useless\").and no additional currency please.isk=plex=aurum=isk, where's the sense in that?heck, even plex=isk was a bad idea."
"no"
"no"
"no, no microtransactions at all."
"no."
"no.because after seeing how eve development has been evolving, even the cosmetic microtransaction would and will redirect development hours away from other things which got much higher priority in my mind."
"i read her point as you *just won't get suspicious* until its too late. your nbsi rationale only works in null sec yeah?"
"supported~"
"supported"
"my first post on eve forums.please, make fonts bigger! eye strain is not fun. =( at all."
"yes....you have my support too."
"gallente ships deserve some lovin'fix blastersimplement uber combat drones to be used specifically by gallente ships"
"nay.i always hear the 'fix blasters' story, but truth is the megathron is one of the top used bss in null sec fleet battles, right after the apocalypse."
"oh yes, now that dnf is out too it's about time!"
"sure noob... maybe you should go to 0.0 to check it out next time before posting"
"galente power should be in drones & nosferatu not in hybrids.you have my drones and my onboard axe."
"so who should specialize in hybrids?don't say caldari since they have missiles and ew!"
"wrong. in actuality sniping bs fell out of favor over two years ago along with the alterations to make scanning easier. their range advantage did not offset their pitiful rail-based dps and once probed out is easy to drop a blob on. with the op state of projectiles, the current fotm is a shield-fit maelstrom. the reason for this is if you can alpha a carrier, you deny the enemy the ability to even use their logistics. from our wiki - if you bring a gallente ship to a fleet fight, people laugh at you."
"supported"
"grr."
"supported."
"+1 for optional decanting"
"i agree. let us choose cq or hangar view (static also if anyone wants it). dont just cut us off ccp.cq eats 90%+ of my cpu and gpu while in space eve hangs at around 35-40% (both cpu & gpu). while i could live with increased req. for the game, show us you care for your customers by not kicking hangar view out.we like our hangar views, ship spinning, looking from all angles and enjoying it."
"i actually love ship spinning in hangars"
"+1 also stop ruining my game"
"until i hear a good reason as to why the cq is replacing the old hanger, i support this.i don't have any trouble running it (as it presently exists on sisi), but i can't think of a(gameplay/technical/lore) reason why the cq would be mandatory. if ccp has one, i would love to hear it."
"i think it already does something like that. iirc the system doubles the cost per week of the war."
"not that i'm aware. this is the formula quoted by evelopedia:time doesn't appear to matter."
"because pirates never go after tankers, container ships and pleasure cruisers. they always demand 1v1's with navy warships right? right?"
"not supported, this is a bandaid to the wardec system - it need to be redesigned from the ground up as it does not currently provide interesting gameplay for both parties. (for neither party if they play sensibly)the correct and reasonable way to respond to a wardec is to:1) avoid all combat except when you can...2) crush the enemy with overwhelming force.the correct and reasonable way to enact a wardec is to:1) avoid all combat except when you can...2) crush the enemy with overwhelming force.this discourages further wardecs, and makes your side look stronger - but it is not fun for either party. the only time it becomes interesting is when one party gets the 'overwhelming force' calculation wrong.currently wardecs are only well designed (ie. fun) if you wish to be wardeced."
"call me cynical, but the war dec system is not designed to provide interesting gameplay to both parties. it is designed for the attacking party to deprive the defending party of interesting gameplay. imo, depriving other players of game enjoyment should not be a design goal, but that ship has sailed long ago. the present proposal is intended to limit said reduction in game enjoyment to a finite time period, for any particular target corp."
"you would think, that before signing up for a game, someone would understand the game play before the made a decision...right?"
"yes, of course. eve is very complex, and for every tactic that affects one negatively (such as a war dec), there are numerous counter tactics (corp shuffling, join an alliance, hire mercs, move to low sec, hide in wormholes etc. etc.) we who have been in eve for a while know this, and are not driven away from the game just because we are targeted by hostile players.this proposal is more for the benefit of new players, who don't have access to or knowledge of their full range of options to deal with conflict."
"wait, there was less options and access to information back then when i first started stumbling around. christ have the time you had to guess.the new guys now have much more depth and ease of information. it actually requires less of a brain stem now to play this game then it did in the day. and if the new player has that much of struggle now keeping up then he/she/it should move on."
"yes to setting to zero the recharge rate of shields and capacitor while a non-covops cloak of any kind is activated. i'm surprised it wasn't already like that.edit: to attempt to remove any ambiguity."
"i don't know what you guys are talking about. i scan through a random selection of youtube vids on nullsec alliance wars, and the second most numerous battleship that i see is the megathron (right after the apocalypse), and the most popular carrier is the thanatos and nyx. surely just because gallente ships don't make the top 10 most popular in some economic report isn't adequate proof that hybrid guns are gimpy. it doesn't follow."
"get some clue noob"
"how many times do you have to repeat yourself, before you are comfotable that you have stated how you feel? i haven't noticed any change in your dialogue at all. just a continuous reiteration of the same two points."
"as many times as it takes to help others along the path of realizing what the implications of mt are and what it really is. unfortunatly you are beyond hope. i and others have countered your points (hey, your entitled to your own opinions) and you have now reached the level of basic trolling. you cannot field an adequate argument so you have resulted to trolling 101. \"let me try and distract and derail threads with sarcastic and smart a** remarks. this isn't the first thread that you have attempted to do this in which is truley sad on your part.and i qoute \"did vandrion get kicked from triple a, or did he leave and start his own corp/alliance? ..that is the question of the day.\" you poor poor manyou have resorted to threats( omg no!!!! you are gonna come and pew pew a planet when dust comes out!-- this actually made me laugh so hard it hurt) because i have a different opinion then yours. if you don't like my opinion or what i post then don't read it (yes i know.... i have had to repeatedly tell you to read in this thread alone and now i am telling you not to. perhaps reading isn't your issue. maybe ccp should have a special money store item just for you- reading comprehension skillbook). i firmly believe you will be troll stalking the forum threads and looking for more opportunity to sneak in with an attempted troll. just remember--- you have failed every time and that won't change.now- back under the bridge before you hurt yourself."
"eh.. i never read corp and alliance forums. no reason really. good on you though, despite that you are now in an alliance collectively referred to as the borg.as for trolling: i am doing no such thing; i have just become so bored of your posts and that of others like you that i haven't bothered reading them. which would probably explain my last comment, which was something along the lines of nothing new to see here, moving along, but not before i take a poke at you to see if you're still alive. besides, conflict is good for people like you; it makes you actually have to think up a response, rather than post the same old filth over and over again.if you hadn't noticed, this thread had boiled down to you and 2-3 others patting each other on the back for a page or so. i felt it was my duty to change that. shake it up a little, so to speak. the thing about you, is you seem to think you are some sort of authority on the subject, and even have a precognitive vision of the future which cannot possibly be wrong. your posting chums seem to agree, and feel the same way about themselves. just a lot of doomsayers really. we should get you all little placards you can hang on your avatars. in fact, that's a good idea for the vanity store; somebody should post it in the features and ideas discussion.i can see you hanging around caldari stations now, with your little sign that says, \"the end of eve is now!!\" we could even get you special little emotes that make you wave your arms around hysterically, and put wild crazy expressions on your face. wait.. i guess that wouldn't work considering your rp perspective. okay, it'll just have to be shuffling arms, a blank-eyed stare, swivelling head and slow clumsy steps then. ..or maybe that's zombies of the apocalypse.edit: and by the way, i haven't even mentioned till now, the fact that you are reposting your op from this thread in any other thread that is even remotely similar in nature. that's just a little wierd."
"you obviously don't read (see what i did there?) much of what is going on in any forum. i will give you a small taste of the rest of the forums:monetizing your appsmt dev blog feedback threadships for $microtransaction vote threadmake cq and incarna optional petitionpromises and micro transactiondon't wanna pay $99 for pixel moneythis list can go on forever... i snagged most of these within about 1 minute of looking at the forums. you don't have to have a crystal ball to see what is going on. the player base is finally reacting wherever they can. my god, ccp even made chribba mad!90% of what is posted in these threads echoes my position in one way or another. there may be only a few people that have posted in this thread but if you actually read a few of the hotter threads you will see shared concerns. mainly:ships for $monetizing your appsthere is a ton of hate and discontent with the csm in the above threads. it explains why more people don't visit and post in these forums. if i can direct people to this thread (2361 views at time of writing this post) and it opens one more person's eyes or stimulates quality respones, whether they agree with my statements or not, then i will continue to link it (where applicable) instead of typing a wall of text. besides, there are some people that have added a great deal to this thread. some agree with me and some don't.i am much more of an authority on the subject then you are. why? i actually took the time to read (see, i did it again. did you catch it this time?) the articles about dust. i took time to read the dev blogs. i took time to read the feedback threads. in addition to that i have played this game for over 6 years and at this point i have a pretty good understanding of how it works and how ccp has progressed as a company. i have heard all the half truths and seen the promises broken over they years. i think that gives me the ability to say i have some authority in the matter.now to address the rest of your post--- once again you are attempting to derail a thread. you are attempting to be witty and inflate ur epeen. you have failed yet again. do you even know why?* i am going to take your repeated attempts at derailing threads, lolthreatening and genrally poor troll-fu as a compliment. it means that i have touched you in a way that your priest hasn't. i believe you finally realized that you don't have a leg to stand on and are now throwing a little temper tantrum. i will deal with you like i dealt with my children when they were upset. i will sit you down, tell you its ok and wipe away your tears."
"by a roleplay perspective this may seem legitimate, the argument i have against it is the fact that it displays no actual effort on the behalf of the 'real' person doing the afk cloaking. in effect the person who owns the character is not playing the game, and is not being engaging but does have the ability to affect the game and the people playing it. the people who see this person in local are actually playing the game and are investing thier time into the game itself, be it the carebear doing his thing, the miner doing his, or the fleet attempting to catch the pirate in system. the latter are all people playing the game while the afk cloaker may be at work, no where near his computer. i say institute a timer that logs you like pretty much all other mmo's have. i'm not saying you can't camp a system to wage psy-warfare, but you should have to be there making inputs, even if it's talking in corpchat or checking market prices like everyone else to do it. bluf: to be able to affect the game in any way, you should be actively playing the game. regardless of any sentiment about the unfairness of local chat. a person not at thier computer is not playing thae game and should not effect it.i personally just ignore afk cloakers, they don't stop me from doing the things i want to do."
"can't believe this is still on the first page...anyway op, if an afk cloaker is preventing you from playing, that is 100% your fault."
"i have been a trader for several years now, i have taught many traders and i've made and lost small fortunes. by no means am i a mogul, but i know my way around the place. i am also very familiar with the .01 isk adjustments and their pros and cons. my proposal is to slightly shift the way sell/buy orders work on the market by allowing all traders who have an order at a matching price to sell collaboratively. this would allow the market to remain stable for goods like trit which have a very small margin, which you can imagine will stabilize prices of everything in eve. this wouldn't end the practice of .01 isk adjustments, but it would allow collaborators a way to share the market in a way that's advantageous to players as well as traders. facets of this proposal:traders may share goods by putting a market order for an item at exactly the same price.- if the orders are for the same exact area of space, only one order will be represented on the orders screen.- if the orders are for different areas of space but overlap, multiple orders will be represented on the orders screen but in the area of overlap purchases will be dealt out to all traders at that price in a round-robin fashion.thank you for your consideration and comments,baron von steubing"
"i have come to the conclusion, that it is time to split the future of eve from it's current incarnation. what i propose is the following:retroactively remove new iterations of eve from the current server, going back to before dominion sometime after releasing incarna. - at least give the players the chance to experience what they will be missing, before removing it entirely.- the current server will no longer see expansions in the direction of the past few years, which will make a lot of the older playerbase happy.- business can continue as usual here, and players who like that can return to what they enjoy, with no future prospect of mt, the new character creator, recent sovereignity mechanics changes, or the like. basically everything everybody has been complaining about for the past three years with every new expansion an alteration to their beloved game.- leave in wormholes, t3's, new planets and the like. i'm sure none of them have much issue with that overall.- most importantly: no dust bunnies.invest in a new server for a new shard, and announce the coming release of eve 2, hopefully by another name as i'm just using that for projection purposes.- introduce eve 2 with all the new developments in early 2012. this includes the carbon character creator, carbon framework, mt, incarna, support for the coming dust 514, etc...- eve will be reborn. there will be no option to move characters from the existing shard to the new one. all players who enter the new new eden, will start from scratch and have to develop everything from an empty universe rife with possibilities.- split isk 4.0 into two seperate iterations; one designed for the current eve, and one for the new shard. expand and redevelop both into guidebooks for their respective shards, and lay out the fundamentals of character planning, corporation building, and all the rest within their pages.- players who are looking forward will likely restart on the new server, quickly populating it with varying levels of experience, and reinventing the wheel in an untouched universe. i know i will.continue with team bff and the thousand little things, ask the current veteran playerbase to share their opinions of where the current eve universe should go, and seperate your vision of the future from theirs. - any bug fixing of shared content will benefit both shards.- all the new content, liked by many of the playerbase, will be available on the new server.- ship balancing can carry across both servers.- eve can retroactively split along seperate paths, in totally different directions for the next few years. perhaps at some point, they will begin to parallel each other again, but i imagine that will take some time.- dust 514 can thrive with a new eden brought to life only short months before it's existance.- most importantly: we can do away with the current trend of rage-quitting, renew old subscriptions, bring back bitter vets, and everyone will be happy.see, i'm happy.running out of space. one more post coming."
"go to chinese server, they're running older versions there and still use mostly t1 ships and modules"
"1.) importantly, i'd like to suggest changes to the new shard that include doing away with current aggression mechanics, in favor of a system that actually places characters on one of two sides in an ongoing battle, (good vs evil if you will), which perhaps even replaces the need for faction warfare. this would give criminals rights in low security space, (where they have the benefit of corrupt and scandalous officials to support them), and give others, (sorry, eve doesn't have the precedence of a name for players who achieve high security status, while being law abiding and just), rights in high security space.these two area's of space would define the borders of the warzones, and each would be fair game within the others space. a certain neutral standing would occur between -2 and +2 security status, where things would be much the same as they are now. concord would protect anybody above -2 security status in high security space, and gate guns would fire on anyone ganking anyone in lowsec with greater than -2 security status. this would result from a lack of notoriety, for which the corrupt officials would have little respect or fear, and thus operate according to local laws.the other side of this, is those same criminals who have the run of lowsec, would be valid targets in high security space, to any individual who has greater than +2 security status. the war would exist on these fronts, and security status gain or loss would be properly balanced to enhance this sort of gameplay.any player kill would prevent the gain of security status for a certain period, resulting in a cooldown timer. security status gain would become directly impacted by where player kills are made. a +2 security status character killing a criminal in lowsec would result in a gain of security status, negating the cooldown timer for that character on that kill. -2 or worse criminals killing each other anywhere, would not result in a cooldown timer, and would cause neither a gain or loss of security status.nullsec rats would have no impact on security status gain, while having the highset monetary reward. high and lowsec rats would have variable monetary rewards and difficulty, equating to varying degrees of reward within the standard monetary range, while having a reduced impact on security status. the overall impact of these security status increases would be minimal, and not greatly impact any characters security status.police would become targetable as rats are, exist only in high and lowsec, and have the same varying rewards and difficulties of highsec and lowsec rats. faction standings would become affected by this ongoing conflict based on which space you pursue your activities in. powerful criminals could actually gain standing in low security space, due to there involvement with corrupt officials, while seeing only a minor loss for pursuing their activities in highsec. +2 or greater security status players would see faction standings increase for pursuing their activties against criminals in high security space, while seeing no impact in low security space.- all levels of missions would be available in all space, to account for these changes.- highsec characters would still be penalized for podkilling criminals in high security space, and recieve a cooldown timer on security status gain for doing so in lowsec.2.) i'd also like to suggest implementing changes to standings mechanics, such that being a part of one faction and running missions, does not neccessarily mean you are enemies with two others. how often does one soldier take on the rage against an empire? okay, quite often, but i still think it's a little extreme. at least offer us the ability to make a checklist of who we are willing to engage, so our agents can look it over and quietly shuffle those other missions to the back of the pile.that's about it for now. that security status/ongoing war thing is quite involved.o/"
"i would actually be dropping this server and moving to the new one, as i mentioned in my post. feel free to argue what should be kept on this server, if such a thing should happen however. honestly, i've felt that this should happen for some time, as i've seen the opposition between the playerbase grow more and more intense since dominion.i think the first time it occured to me was nearly 6 months ago. you can't make everybody happy, and keep it all on one server at the same time. currently it trends towards the older players being ****ed off and left out. i'm not sure which one you are. feel free to discuss what you would like to keep of the current trend on the current server, however."
"so, if i understand you correctly,you want to essentially double ccp's server costs, double their maintenance time, really double the cost of maintaining eve; all while suggesting that the most populous single-shard universe on the planet should be split? all because 'older players' (read: you) are mad at recent changes?here's a little tidnibblet: eve has undergone changes, especially in the past three years, and their subscription base continues to grow. why, with no real incentive other than saving face (a quality which ccp really doesn't care about) and increasing their overhead would they do this?can't tell if troll or just stupid."
"check his post history and the answer will become clear, unfortunately."
"yes i know you may or may not be working on new pos stuff, but here is what you can do to lessen the amount of pos managers commiting suicide spending hours upon hours for one pos due to the current mechanics.**reduce all anchoring/unanchoring/online timers by 75%**all you have to do is go in and change the numbers on the those aspects and it will help out tremendously until you bless us with the new stuff."
"i would tend to agree, though i might make it 80 or 90% just to alleviate the pain of past experience."
"yes plz."
"i've asked ccp to do this as part of the jump bridge changes, but it was too late to make that patch. i will ask again. i specifically asked for all module unanchor timers to be set to 5 seconds and for tower unanchor timers to be increased to compensate."
"(most) anchoring timers, maybe. onlining and unanchoring though is a different matter, reducing that would make it much easier to maintain a towers defense by onlining new guns as old ones get incapped, and allows you to online defensive mods that you turned off to fit more silos/reactors/whatever much faster, removing some of the penalty for doing so, and worse if you just blanket reduce timers, it would make cycling cyno jammers and similar mods much easier. reducing the online timer for towers themselves makes it much harder to kill it before it goes up, and reducing the anchor timer for the tower itself gives you less time to prepare, and cutting down the unanchor timer lowers the risk of someone coming along and stealing your tower while you're trying to take it down.being able to queue it up somehow would be nice, but just cutting the timers does have consequences."
"the only real issue with 0.0 is that it's not accessable to individuals that aren't arleady established, and hasn't been since the gates opened up to that area in '03-'04. since then stability, alliances, the ability to set other alliances friendly to form massive coalitions, nc, fc, drf, sc...they've gained stability and would be hard pressed to be pushed out.pushing these alliances to the tipping point and causing massive failscades across new eden would be the only way to open up more 0.0 and get players willing to venture back out into nullsec. however, there is really no way to do this within the current scope of the game.-spawns for anoms/plexes in 0.0 should more evenly reflect the spawn time in <0.5-site spawns should be region specific, not sec specific, i.e. all sites have the same change to spawn regardless of sec status.-site rewards should be spawn specific, not spec specific. i.e. a frigate that is worth 3,500 in high sec/low sec should be 3,500 in nullsec.-all moons regardless of sec status should have a depletion/recharge time of 24/72. moon mining should only be allowed in lowsec, nullsec.-tech ii ship insurance should be balanced with the cost of the ship, not with the t1 counter part.-there should be an equal number of w space as there is k space.-based off of the 7 year average of modual drops/bounties, drone drops should be increased/decreased as needed to be more inline with current faction anoms.-reverse the jump bridge changes implimented at 0.0. currently they pose no real logistical challenge, threat, or otherwise change the face of 0.0 that ccp wanted.-either increase passive and active armor mods to more accurately reflect their shield counterparts in bonuses, cpu and pg requirements, and draw backs or decrease shield mods to reflect their armor equivilent.-either increase repair mods to reflect the use of a shield booster+boost amplifier, or decrease the effectiveness of shield booster+boost amplifier to be more inline with armor repair mods.-autocannon, blaster, pulse, artillery, beam, and railguns should be balanced to be more inline with each other. leaving missiles how they are may drive players to use missile boats over turret boats, however, that is still the current state of optimal play. this would only balance the different types of turrets to be more competative against other turret types.-increase the minimum corprate tax rate to 15% in order to eleviate the tax havens that highsec players create.-do not allow corps to be created with less than 20 people that must include a minimum of 1 player from each race that is not the ceo's.-alliances should not have the ability to alter standings with other alliances, removing the ability to form 10,000man allainces. corporations in an alliance should not be able to alter corprate standings."
"i agree with this. vast areas of 0.0 are empty, and a big reason is that it's just so hard to get there. some things that might help:- more wormhole connections from high sec to 0.0. i haven't opened a huge number of wormholes, but it seems they almost never open into null sec.- more 'crap' regions in 0.0, along the lines of providence. places that are accessible from high sec and resource poor compared to the rest of 0.0, so that the superpower alliances are likely to just ignore it.- how about 'sleeper incursions' in 0.0 that annihilate all the poss? randomly seed the incursions so that every region gets one at least every few months. if players want to recolonize the region, they have to fight their way in and clean out the sleeper nests."
"more 0.0 that nobody wants to fight over... oh grand.how about an ore supercap whose job is to mine moons. something that doesnt even need to be on the same grid as the pos and mines the moon. that can perhaps pull 100+ per type per hour and if you mine >100 units the pos mines nothing. have the thing siege and it would \"lock\" the moon so it'd have to be outside a pos shields a long distance. no more afk income for alliance leader pockets unless you defend your moons. now those rich moons are for everyone not just 5 big alliances."
"premature mouthfoaming much? check it out, i bolded the interesting part and even took the liberty to underline the very interesting part.for clarity:requiring payment != accepting donationin simple terms, if you charge people for your software, you have to pay up. and you damn well should.if you do not charge, but accept donations from people that enjoy your software which you provide free of charge you dont have to pay.also, it appears they are rethinking if isk should be considered payment at all:"
"just slap a paypal button up and accept donations.well duh! derp derp!"
"the bigger point here is the utterly ridiculous figure of $99. something around $10-$20 would be much more reasonable.in general, apps that would fall into the category that would desire a commercial license would be those that would offer a \"super-version\" of what they already offer with slightly more shininess. thats going to be for what, $0.99 - $2 tops (unless the programmer is a moron...)?"
"this is you:\"due to general ignorance and/or selective reading i never realised devs of 3rd party apps currently can't require a payment so now that ccp is actually putting in place a way for devs to charge for their time/effort i am going to rage up like a stupid manchild\""
"in that case cheer up:seriously, with the current figure of $99, what are we looking at in terms of revenue for them, maybe $2-3k a year tops?at some point, you also have to see the thing from their side, how much money would you be willing to pay for the ability of a 3rd party to make a profit from your product?"
"if i could support this a thousand times i would.ffs ccp, you are letting chribba, wollari, peter powers and many others that shaped this community down the drain."
"i'd have to agree that the crapstorm has gotten out of control. an iphone app's devs get greedy, and now the entire community is getting shafted for it.i understand how useful cellphone apps are, but ccp, don't throw the baby out with the bathwater. this is a community who loves this game and produces items, sometimes for a nominal isk charge, getting slapped in the face.evidences:so much for forum signatures and the many artists who use this to afford the pvp ships or otherwise.while battleclinic and others may not have a severe problem paying the $99 per year, it does add another straw to the proverbial camel's back, and one that is unnecessary.if the iphone app falls through because the devs can't charge for it, one of the other avid fans of eve will create an app. it may not be as good, but it may not need to be as good as well.ccp, think of your community first, as the smallest groups tend to have the loudest voices."
"ccp fail. greed got the better of you? it's not like they need the money when they can take 409 staff on holiday to mexico every year.community is everything in eve, player participation is what makes eve what it is. you're killing that ccp. they don't make money from the api so why punish people for fleshing out your game? it's not like it costs you anything that's not already covered in the subscription."
"how about you charge the same amount blizzard charges wowhead, mmo-champion, etc. ... nothing."
"bad idea ccp."
"whowho whowhat have they ever done for me? that's what i'd like to know!"
"amazing ignorance or troll. can`t decide which."
"will donations require a commercial license?from ccpwill donations require a commercial license?yes, for donation supported websites you will require a commercial license.^^^this is what has everybody ****ed"
"my guess is: an owl"
"i'm not the richest guy, i'm a student and this will force me to shutdown my work in hosting for isk and providing some paid and some free services to the community."
"read the blog.does hosting for isk use any of those?"
"i've posted in the thread. csm did not see the devblog in advance, which is unfortunate because we would have made the same objections.it's penny-wise and pound-foolish imho."
"it's not even penny-wise. the entry bar is far too high for a gaming community. in the apple app store world, you have a potential customer base of millions of users, all of them cashed-up and ready to spend. in the eve online world, you have a potential customer base of a hundred thousand or so who are already paying $15/month to pay the game.charging people $99/year for the possibility of being able to make a couple of hundred dollars is rather ludicrous. noone will be able to afford that licence fee.cut the licence fee to $0, take a portion of the revenue, provide in-game advertising of licenced properties, it'll be a different picture for both ccp and the third party devs.my suggestion on the matter is to implement ingame subscription purchases, using the eve ingame store as something like the apple app store to promote third party properties and make it very easy for players to buy subscriptions to the third party services.the system i've proposed will allow folks like chribba to continue doing things exactly like they are right now. every now and then i could throw an aurum's worth of real dollars his way without racking up small transaction charges or excess monthly transaction charges up on my card :)a $99/yr fee + portion of revenue makes sense in the apple app store world because of the size of the market and that market's propensity for spending money (they bought iphones! helloooo money!). it doesn't make sense in the eve online world (they play games to pass the time instead of starting new companies or working second jobs - bunch of cheapskates! ).(edit: duh! click support before submitting )"
"make it a 5x multiplier skill which maxes out at 8 jump clones at level 5, and you've got yourself a deal.with regards to the jump time, it's more relevent to cost and in game lore than character training. make it an increased cost for jump clones to decrease the waiting time between jumps. seperate that from jump clones stored on player ships, unless upgrades are purchased to improve those facilities. result being a jump clone which is available in 9 hours would cost a literal fortune, (2 billion isk), for that availability, where the standard would cost only the usual 100k isk. also make advanced infomorph psychology i a prerequisite to the use of advanced cloning facilities.i'd be good with that."
"eve is small enough as it is. do not want."
"pretty simple this one. it just came to me, but i'm still surprised i haven't seen it before.in ui boxes that expect a numerical input (such as splitting stacks or transferring isk), allow us to type a single letter suffix to multiply that number. for example:2k becomes 2,000.005m becomes 5,000,000.009b becomes 9,000,000,000.00"
"very nice idea.support"
"how about using an existing standard for entering numbers in scientific format?1e3 -> 10001e6 -> 10000001e9 -> 1000000000excel works this way, so why not eve too?"
"subject: new in eve, how to maintain updated my clone?subject: i'm new and don't know how to update my clone.the whole concept is avoid being punished and generally only applies to pvpers and newbs. vets and carebears just set a high clone and forget about the whole thing for years.do newbs and pvpers really need to be punished? i doubt people are really losing sp at any real rate anyway. so why keep a needlessly complicated system?jason just broke 75 million sp. ntrabbit is about to break 150million sp. the real problem is that sp is getting really high and there's not a great deal left to train. vets need a new thing to train for and sp needs to start going away.my going suggestion is \"bioships\" where high sp characters jump into a bioship and the thing starts off weak. instead of training skills you \"grow\" the bioship. the actual bioships' weapons and stuff gets bonuses from all 4 races at once. 1 year old bioship might be an epic frig. year 2 can be epic cruiser. year 3 can be epic battlecruiser. year 4 can be epic battleship. say the ship dies in year 4. that's 4 years worth of sp gone. this would be epic for the game. vets get something and the game gets a good sp sink."
"when you run out of stuff to train on your main char, start sinking the sp into alts on that account.about the sp clones, i dont particularly like them either (where the hell is my notification about uncovered sp???), but they are a small isk sink afterall, and there are not enough of those anyway."
"because it keeps monthly subscriptions coming in. what part of this business model is hard for you to understand?"
"shameless bump."
"spoken like someone who's never dug themself out of pirate status"
"bump, good idea."
"exactly my point--and they don't want to find out. \"oh noes grinding sec status is so hard! baw!\" so they just take the easy way out by hiding behind their high sec alt to afk, wait out, and avoid any actual fights while isk printing at the same time. can't war dec them 'cause they stay in an npc corp so when they face the consequences for doing so via suicide gank, they cry about the suicide gank and cry about nerfs to it. they want an easier mode...just for themselves."
"why? to make a point. one they will hear, and feel, because lets be real, companies only feel their wallet.is eve ready for such a thing? its a common tool in rl, why shouldnt it work in eve? could it be a new tool for the csm? every thought about it?edit: man, if you don't spell it out for the children: its like a worker striker, you know, boycotting the service? and thats not illegal, its showing them whos boss = customer"
"what are you babbling about? it seems as if you are suggesting something which would be illegal, not to mention generally stupid and fanatically driven."
"strike as in attack, or strike as in don't log in?lulzsec are doing the former for you anyway, and as for the latter, well, congratulations on winning eve i guess."
"they are not okay, to mey afk clouckers araund to litle eforce from thos to kil some one, if some one teling me thet they are vurnible when lauch cyno than that bul**** _ when they launch cuno allready to late.nedd to be soem mechanics to get rid off them hoo is siting in sytems days and weeks cloucked. actualy, i have one idea just put mesage there that and that guy cloucked in system that every one see it. if hee nto tuching that char notm oving ship etc, for like 30 mins than masage up that and that its uinactive and when hee is active presed sotming or moved ship. then agein warnign that and that cloucker its active. that ways couck remaisn how its is but all will knoe that that guy is afk and no need to frade off him. and if hee start move ship or do wath ever action in game with that char again mesage up so every one knows and if wish can awoud or set trap for him."
"i'm sure ccp has a reason in specifically picking those out to have no tick box."
"+1and if you are at it, also remove all meaningless progressbars.progress indicators should only appear if something takes longer as expected (3s+). rather than showing us a progressbar in every jump do a fullscreen jump effect or something like that. (an"
"no it doesent. you need more to work with than just the basic concept."
"anyone have a list about this? i see a lot of qq on the matter but no specifics. my understandin is it's cosmetic's like you see in wow where people buy flying crap w/ cash but has no effect on the actual mechanics. personally i think something like that is a waste, but if people want to spend $15 on a cool pair of shades for there toon by all means go for it. if your paying $15 for something that impacts mechanics then no. so anyone have a list or can comment?"
"been saying this for months now, somehow it's not getting through to either ccp or the csm. they keep failing at communicating. at least link your posts, blogs, tweets, whatever on these forums."
"csm5 >> csm6 where's the accomplishments? the transparency? the communications? mittani's own writings state that you should make it as easy as possible for people to receive your message, and to use all possible channels. i'm not seeing squat coming out of csm6. why did csm5 take only 2-3 weeks to produce their minutes, but csm6 takes months? what happened to the csm6 campaign promises. wtb mynxee administration."
"+1 (again)"
"so much truth. as i have mentioned time and time again, ccp's slow crawl to faceless entity mega corp is slowly stripping it of it's soul. the craze for gaining more subbers on a game that from the ground start is made up to appeal to a core specific mindset is doomed to fail from the start. i support this idea"
"one of the strongest points about this game that i don't see exploited enough is how pvp has real impact. let's take wow for exmple, as lets be honest, that's where most people are going to be coming from, being the biggest fish in the pond by a long way and all. for around 6 years (i think) the horde and alliance have been fighing over various bits of land via battlegrounds. thousands upon thousands have poured in and given their virtual lives in these conflicts, and yet the situation has not changed one iota. you defeat an opponent and are granted a couple of points, and 30 seconds later they're back in the thick of the fighting, unaffected.in eve the same broad conflicts over territory and resources exist, and they are actually at stake. set your sights on a system to conquer and victory doesn't mean points and a step closer to some achievement, it means you conquer the system. defeat an opponent and they loose their ship, potentially affecting their ability to fight effectivly for some time. even if they can a afford to replace it 10 times over, you still make a measurable dent. you may remove them from the fight totally, be it because they have to go pick up a ship, fit a new one, or are unwilling/unable to risk anything more. even if they come striaght back out with another boat from the stockpile, you still cost them, and chances are, they're tactics and loadout will reflect this. defeat is actually meaningful, you take a chunk our of your resources with every loss, forcing you to learn and adapt, and making victory all the more sweet when you achieve it.this is eve's usp, what sets it apart from wow and it's clones, and i just don't see it being overtly exploited enough."
"adjustable warning timer. i'd love to get a mail when i only have 5 days fuel left, and one every other day after that."
"noi wouldnt have a problem with purely vanity items, but its the thin end of the wedge. if we tolerate monocles, next thing you know noobs are buying titans.just say no."
"[cosmetic only]i, personally, don't care about your pink dominix or a monocle. as long as mts stay purely cosmetic and vanity items (i like the idea of purchasing an apotheosis shuttle for aur)."
"cosmetic only.as long as you can't buy gameplay advantages for real money, i don't care."
"\"no\""
"no"
"\"no\""
"no."
"no"
"kinky."
"noi see no use in microtransaction except for a name,race,avatar change after selling a char. that should then be included into the transfer fee.especially with incarna - when i hear you want people to add furniture into the rooms i am forced to think eve is transforming into some kind of \"the sims\"."
"no1000x no, pathetic"
"no"
"a year later we are still heading down the failed path...turn it around, help us, help you. we have ideas for gameplay, we have experts on balance, economists who predict your market behaviour. and computers we would volunteer via programs like folding@home if you want simulations run.this is not an un-fixable game. this game is not expensive to fix. get started. notified i already supported.[had to wait 2 mins ]"
"meh, i would say it is way past time to work on content such as faction warfare and other previous releases."
"negative, the 'rationale' works in all security. if \"a\" is being ambushed in high-sec and the opponent \"b\" (formerly named \"c\") isn't being blown away by concord, it's because \"b\" has justification. justification being:kill rights -- your karma is not my problem -- set victims to red next time, odds are you wont remember a particular name or be looking for several in local every millisecond anywaywar -- being red should have been your first clue to \"shoot it\"you're being suicide ganked -- it's too late regardless of their namein any case, the name change is insignificant.although, yeah, while you can't go around killing neutrals without expecting consequences in high-sec, i did deliberately write \"if they're neutral, they're neither and thus a risk (prepare to shoot it ~depends on the corp policy).\" emphasis on prepare, this is eve (not hello kitty online), if you're not suspicious you've got it coming"
"also. the old name should be indexed so if someone does search for it the new name comes up with an explanation that the person had changed their name."
"i feel exactly the same way. please, ccp, give us the option to choose a different font, or at least increase the size a bit for higher resolutions (not just in the chat, but for everything)!"
"ccp dont listin to their members do they? so many support this, like the most supported thing ingame, and still they dont do anything about it. why have this forums ccp... u never listin to players anyway..."
"confirming the current cyno jump sucks.old cyno effectnew cyno effectccp - plz 2 give old/new cyno jump effect kthxbye."
"new shinies please."
"i would sex up the dev that lets me change nikita to sebiestor. and pay them. that's gotta be a fairly win deal...i mean i'm pretty cute."
"cosmetic flexibility is always nice to have on the backburner..."
"signed"
"support this.also, as someone else in other thread noted, there is no point storyline/immersion-wise in deploying a capsuleer from his/her capsule (which is supposed to be a tedious process) every time he/she docks and throwning the said capsuleer back into the pod upon undocking, especially if he/she docked just to change the ship.make it optional, with a button \"enter cq\" or something like that, while retaining the hangar view we're used to while not in cq for those who like shipspinning (or are just passing by to take some wares from the hangar and are in no way interested in renting a fully-fledged cq because their visit qwill be _really_ short)."
"supported.i want it to be an optional feature like it was in the very first preview of it at fanfest some years ago.its pretty much impossible to run multiple clients across 2 monitors now with cq, even if only 1 is docked and the other is in space. massive fps hit. and i am not a fan of a static bg image with an overlayed ui."
"it should be so, but knowing ccp and past screwups, it won't be."
"i think you mean cerebral cortex not brain stem... too much of the latter in eve now if you ask me.back in the day there were no bored 6-year veterans to deal with. you can't compare today's new player experience to the one we had .. the game has changed too much.edit: irrelevant comment about moons deleted"
"what do moons have to do with new players?"
"industry/trading/mining - it's *all* pvp. just not done with cannons... when you installed eve-online, you tacitly agree to war-decs, and suicide ganking.*not* supported......."
"no, i meant brain stem, the basic stuff to control life support, the nervous system etc. apparently you missed the point it takes very little to grasp this game. and the fact some can't....well you get the idea.it is all relative the age and size of the population. moons back in the day(curious to get an understanding of your concept of \"back in the day\")? what the hell does moons have to do with the topic?"
"war weariness, eh? perhaps balance it so that increase is mitigated by success in battle ..sandbox goes both ways so kind of a silly thing to say. besides, the people who live the dream of constant wardecs rarely if ever have protracted wars against single targets so will be largely unaffected."
"you're right that an individual war dec rarely lasts a long time. what's more likely is that a defending corp is targeted by a stream of war decs, so that it is in a state of war more or less indefinitely. this proposal is meant to give such corps a break once in a while.as for the effect on aggressive corps who like to declare wars, on further thought i don't think that needs changing. if someone wants to declare wars all the time, so be it, as long as there is some mechanism to prevent one target from always being in the crosshairs. the original proposal has been edited accordingly."
"well, you made yourself sound sufficiently like a pervert.if you bothered to read, you'd know i've posted in most of those threads, and hold the same position i do know, opposing yours and many of theirs. so i've got integrity, which doesn't really prove anything, or even mean either you or i are right in any fashion. at least i've shown i have the ability to consider the views of others, and have even taken some liberty with modifying my position, if only slightly.neither you, or many of those others seem to have the ability to do this, which only provides me with all the evidence i need to be convinced that you are not only propagandizing, but are fanatic in your cause. lets say you're right, and ccp really is extremely bent on destroying your version of eve, to replace it with some money grabbing online application, what do you think will happen? the vast majority of players will decide they have better things to do, and they will unsub from eve, and eventually eve will either go f2p or it'll die entirely due to a low population and being an unworthy investment. maybe. do you really think ccp hasn't thought of that, or that they would be investing as much as they are in the continuation of eve? more likely, they'd discontinue future development almost entirely, releasing only minor expansions here and there, while doing marginal bug fixes and simply maintaining content. they would already be moving in the direction of f2p, and they would have a generic mt store planned with gimics and ships to enhance your gameplay.once eve went f2p, none of the old guard would matter anymore, as only diehards would stay beyond all that. rmt's would move on to other things for the most part, with little reason to invest in that sort of game. the server would be repopulated with lower income or cheaper players looking for something with quick and easy rewards, and minimal time investment.there would be no graphics updates, r&d, or anything of that sort, because the time and development staff investment simply would not be worth it. eve would be back-burnered and forgotten for all extents and purposes. at some point, ccp would sell it to a company interested in operating an mmo with minimal time investment requirement, and a satisfaction with small rewards for that effort.ccp would not put their next generation graphics technology into eve, or continue development on any of their proprietary technologies with eve. that would all end. no carbonui, no carbon framework, and no nvidia partnered technology. you would still be happily wearing your old plastercine mug, while looking quite colorful.have you thought of that, or are you completely blind? ..something most people are accusing ccp of being these days."
"qft"
"the most recent examle of ccp's thought process:monetizing your apps---41 page threadnaughtthey really thought that one through! to answer your question-- hell no ccp hasn't thought it through!many players have stated that their opinion is that ccp is milking the eve game title for all it's worth to push development on wod and dust. i tend to agree.you really want to talk about game development??? the only way anyone could have a conversation on game development is if they talked about everythign that was only 1/2 developed when ccp rolled it out and then left it unfinished.... examples:faction warfaresov warfare-- one universe/one war dust money store play is coming to sov warfare near you to break it even further. read the first post in this thread.explorationbounty systemmission systempos mechanicscorp interfaceeve gate---- this was supposed to be the second coming of christ and it took a dump when they tried to migrate the forums....microtransactions-- comin soon but ccp has already snafu'd it.. ishukone scorp anyone??? this wasn't a test either.... anyone who watched day 2 of the at9 realizes this. this was a let's rush an item into the game to see how much money we can make off it scheme! believe it or not ccp used to make fun of companies that did this stuff....dev blog is coming back to haunt you ccpon a side note-- i belive it took 7.5 years to get drone damage notification in game..... wtfall of those broken items are great indications of game development........mars-- this will be the last post of yours in my thread that i will bother to reply to. i took a look at your recent threads and posts and confirmed that you are in fact dumb as a box of rocks. make eve 2 shards...sweet jesus!. i actually pity you... barely a year old in game.... 1 man corp in a 1 man alliance. it seems you would certainly favor having eve on easy mode so you don't have to be exposed to risk yet get all the reward. it is a real shame and you are truley deserving of pity.edit--- after making this post my eve mail went crazy. the denizens of the box of rocks mentioned above were in an uproar. in response to said uproar i prepared this statement:i would formally like to apologize to the denizens of the \"box of rocks\" mentioned in the above post. after reading the multiple correspondence i received from their group it is evident that they have indeed read this and other threads and they have also composed a quality response regarding my offensive statement towards them. based on both the quality of their response and their clear passion for reading they have proven that they are in fact more intelligent then mars theran is.once again i do apologize to the denizens of the box of rocks for my unintentional comparison."
"the recent changes reflected in \"agents made easy\" have removed useful complexity from the mission system. i believe this has resulted in a much poorer experience. instead of making missions more interesting and varied, it's turned the mission system into much more of a grind than it used to be. two flaws of the new system:1) fixed agent quality -- there is now no sense of progression. i find a system where access to agents and rewards improves as you gain corp standings much more immersive and logical than one where they all instantaneously switch from being disgusted by your mere appearance to finding you super sexy awesome.2) removal of agent division variety -- while the changes have made life easier for the folks that just want to do the same thing over and over and over, it's completely removed the set of agents that enable players to be generalists. for me, having a mixture of combat, courier/trade, and mining missions reduces the monotony of missioning. my favorite mission chains are those that require or allow a mixture of skills and activities. for example, i love the level 3 new frontiers chain because it has mining, courier, pewpewpew, and having to deal with neut/stasis towers.proposal:- make agent quality go from -20 to 20 again- keep pure mission type agents, but add back in mixed mission type agents (e.g. advisory, personnel, marketing, pr, astrosurveying)side note: the entire \"agents made easy\" blog seems inherently contrary to the ethos of eve. i still can't figure out why removing complexity for the sake of removing complexity was considered a good idea."
"1) totally agree with this point2) i actually liked this change, because i hated getting random courier missions when i wanted to pew-pew. but it would be cool to have at least one agent type that gave random missions. it would also be great to have mission arcs that spanned all of the various kinds of missions in one arc."
"1) they did this to eliminate mission hubs. now there are players more spread out and less load on the servers, and many corporations now have decent agents in high-security space. win-win.2) i can somewhat agree with a 'chaos' type agent, who gives out a variety of missions. maybe have a different type of agent that may give security/distribution, distribution/mining, and security/mining, and maybe one type of agent who gives a spread of all three types.one type of split i'd like to see is security, who gives anti-pirate missions, and internal security, who gives anti-faction missions. some people prefer to run the anti-faction missions who don't care about opposing standings and get the high-value items in the lp store."
"+1 for freelancer agents. in concept, they could even take cross-faction jobs..."
"signed."
"this.now grow a pair and get on with life."
"apparently, someone failed to realize that servers are low maintenance compared to development. ..or did you think that 50-75k a year per developer would cost less than server maintenance? ..and you're calling me stupid or troll let's see.. current developers working for ccp: multiplied by an average wage of approx. $72k, (just a guess, but it's not unreasonable), comes to approx. $43,272,000 per year.nah.. servers must cost more than that."
"you donb't have to like it. or even agree with it, but the idea is up there. i should have expected that the only posts i'd get are the usual flaming and trolling as per usual, or even responses that suggest i'm a troll.forums as usual. no surprise here."
"you suggested something that goes 100% against the idea behind eve and the direction ccp wants to take.gb2wow if you want multi-shards. seriously."
"i played maybe 5 minutes of wow in my life; found it dreadfully boring.as for eve and new shards, i don't say this because i want eve to split up into two shards, but more because i see it becoming an inevitability. since the release of dominion, the eve playerbase has become steadily more and more disatisfied with the current direction of eve, with numerous players quitting, cancelling subs, and/or working actively at ruining ccp's reputation.it has developed to the point where specific groups are actively targeting ccp and eve online, and attempting to dissuade new players from subbing, or continuing subscriptions. this does not look good for the future of eve, despite that some of us remain loyal and a few of us believe ccp is doing the right thing. others do not, and more players are following the trend of dissatisfaction with every new expansion or release of content, and every live blog that details ccp's plans for the next series of updates.the only exception to this trend, is when ccp releases a dev blog detailing fixes on old, legacy content, which they are preferentially holding back on, until they can properly release it under the carbon framework. ccp has already released blogs to this effect, but an impatient player populace is unsatisfied with the lack of a quick delivery to solve their problems.moreover, players are unhappy with the current projections of mt in a pay-2-play eve, and have no intention of giving the service any credit or merit, even before it has been released on a trial run scheduled for the 21st of june. no more than 2 days before eve tq is migrated to the new server cluster.players rant and vent about ccp not meeting their expectations and lacking any consideration for the playerbase, yet these things are being done. none the less, players continue to cancel subs and enact bitter vengeance on ccp through inconsiderate and inflammatory posting, which is generally in poor taste and lacking in foresightedness, while generally being completely ignorant of the facts as they are presented.so i posted this, and read it or not, this is my feeling on the matter. i'd rather it was not the case, but when the playerbase in general won't even acknowledge the need for some controls on how pvp is forced on players who haven't the time or inclination for it, while lacking the isk to support such activities, among other things, i would say eve is riven by opposing viewpoints and thoroughly steeped in animosity.some thoughts on the matter of ccp and eve, from 00sage00. i do not agree with him in the slightest, but there it is.edit:eve online currently has two active servers, in china and the uk. respectively, they are serenity and tranquility. there is precedence.i'd also like to note a blog by another pilot, which mentions the rift in eve of which i was speaking, and it is not an uncommon viewpoint. this essentially mirrors how i feel, though i have not been so much subject to this phenomena as witness to it."
"fact is, your wanting them to deviate from the last freaking thing they ahvent deviated from yet, so your just wanting to splitt he playerbase, which in the longrun will serve little to no actual purpose."
"actually, there are benefits to splitting the playerbase, which i haven't mentioned here yet. one is that a new server and shard, (with a fresh start), will be at first free of rmt, and have a great many opportunities available for the players that go there. the other primary benefit, is that the players who stay here, will see a massive drop in competition in the economy as players leave this server for another. nullsec space will open up, and jita will lose a great many traders, while wormhole space will see a drop in active players claiming space there.another benefit for tq, would be the trend to develop according to the player interests. currently, for the older players most likely to stay, this includes fixing of old content, rollback of certain unwelcome developments like the current sov mechanics, and most importantly, they get to keep their griefing.call it a splitting of the servers between light and dark, new and old, and allowing each to develop along their own progressive paths. it wouldn't be such a bad thing, and i for one, would actually welcome the change. i would also be somewhat saddened to see and acknowledge, (finally and without doubt), that the current shard of tranquility cannot exist for all of us.it is my thought that it can't, and some of us will have to move on and leave you to your grief."
"if you no longer like the direction eve is going, stop playing. no need for old shard and new shard, no need for ccp to cut into their profit margins building out a new server cluster for those who cannot (or will not) adapt to the changing environment of the game.to paraphrase a meme: adapt or unsub."
"as soon as serenity went online, the single shard mantra became rhetoric."
"i agree, it was useful information.please show at least standings toward factions/corps. those toward agents are not that useful."
"/sign"
"i do miss this functinality daily!"
"i enjoy like it`s now. disagree"
"1.0"
"give it back! why do ccp always have o ruin their own game.... when i startet in 2008, effects was so nice. u didnt need to have a super computer to run the game cus u could change to old graphic. everytime i hear they change something im like \"yea now another cool thing is gonna get nerfed/removed\".+1!!!!"
"1.0"
"free intel is bad. not supported."
"o/"
"it was a stupid change, reverse it please ccp."
"how about this idea to quell you. we already have an aggression system in place so why not include towers in it? if it attacked or was attacked in the previous x minutes or hours or whatever, then no changes can occur or time is multiplied by (x)?i know that is a bit more that what the op had in mind and may take a bit more programming than changing a number or two, but still....anyway, with that out of the way i do agree... it does take a bit too long to (un)anchor and off/on-line pos structures. but we do need to keep in mind what steve said because he is right. it can be made unfair as well."
"counterproposal:anchoring (rank 3) this skill reduces anchoring times by 10% per level."
"as steave435 already pointed out, a (drastical) reduction in anchoring/onlining timers will have significant gameplay effects. currently, when an enemy tries to set up a starbase in your space, you have enough time to discover it and mount a defensive force before it is fully operational. if the entire anchoring process took 10 minutes, you would barely be able to spot it.what i would really like to see is making the timers separate for each person. so if you have three people setting up the pos, they can anchor/online three modules at the same time. this eases the pain and also promotes teamplay. instead of having to draw straws for who of the four pos guys in corp gets to sit there for a day anchoring, we could all get it done together in two hours.i also like the idea of the anchoring skill slightly reducing the timer - gives it a reason to exist other than a prerequisite for sdm."
"^^this is a good idea..... i would also like to see a serious reduction in the hp's of offline towers... but that's for another proposal..."
"how about this: lower the overall average time it takes to anchor starbase modules. in enemy sov, it takes longer to set up a starbase. in sovless systems or npc space it takes the normal amount of time. in friendly sov, it takes even less time.this way, you can't quickly spam starbases in enemy space."
"eve urgently needs and has needed for a long time another 2-3 regions like curse: large (70+ systems), npc sov, close to empire, several hi-sec entrences, good connections to the rest of the map, lots of npc stations. there should be a \"guristas curse\", a \"serpentis curse\" (dont talk to me about syndicate) and a \"blood raider curse\" positioned to caldari, gallante and amarr space in a similar way to how curse is to minmatar space.space like this is the ideal territory for smaller corporations and alliances to gain a presence in 0.0 without having to deal with the massive cap blobs and coalitions that are inherent in sov space."
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"sounds fair, as long as you don't have to pay for a license if the profit is purely in-game currency."
"why is this becoming more and more common lately?"
"save 3rd party devs!!"
"free bump"
"exactly, if eve is a big place, keep it feeling big, if anything alot of times i feel eve is pretty small if anything."
"signed"
"yeah... i've proposed implementation of digit grouping almost a year ago in a separate thread and added it to akita t's thread.i'll support it here too. can't hurt."
"nice idea, i support this."
"yes."
"yes.no."
"given how close 'k' and 'm' are on the keyboard, i cant imagine this backfiring horribly at all... not a bad idea though, why not."
"1.0"
"sounds good to me."
"or russian rent format?1k -> 10001kk ->10000001*** -> 1000000000seriously though. the ops topic would be great. would do wonders for not accidentally transferring an extra or short amount of 0's"
"would be a nice little ui improvement."
"works for me"
"k"
"the handy button.many pilots finance their living in new eden by belt ratting, and to improve this, a certain button could be placed in the user interface. below the system details would be yet another collapsable field, from where you can choose to browse either only planets, moons or asteroid belts. those who practice planetary interaction can view planetary details from the quick menu, choose which type of a planet's (storm, ice, barren, etc.) customs office they want to travel to. and those who are looking for setting up a control tower (pos) can view moons. and finally those who look to shoot pirate npcs can see how many belts there are in the system in total, and when they're at a belt, killed the npcs, they can just push the [next belt] button in order to warp to the next belt. this would speed up the ratting process, as otherwise one would have to browse through the vast list of asteroid belts in the system, find where they are at the moment and then select the next belt(some systems have over 40 belts).a new pos module (or a modification of the ship fitting array).a pos module, sort of a depot, where pilots can dock their ship to. the depot would offer fitting services, as well as repair hull and armor damage on your ship and regenerate your shields. not only that, the depot would be able to repair damaged modules aswell! this would be great for pve and pvp.planetary interaction update.the ability to save a planet's structure layout. this would speed up pi building and routing process. you could make different kinds of presets and save them. at a planet, you just open the saved presets window, and load up the structure layout you've previously done and place it where-ever you want."
"not to be exceptionally hostile, but if you can't even remember where in the system you are for 5 minutes, or be bothered to actually move around and explore a bit, and just want everything handed to you so you never have to actually go somewhere to learn about it, stay in the station, please.all i mean to say is, your whole point seems to point to taht you can't be bothered to remember where you are, or the planet types in systems you frequent (which, let's be honest, if your gonna set up pi, it's going to be where you frequent, because no one wants to go 8 jumps out fo their way to kansas just to pick up pi).imo this entire proposal seems as it would only cater to those too lazy to actually go do something or look around, and would serve very little purpose to people who have an attention span longer then 5 minutes, (and no, im not just saying this, i have only had an account for upwards of 2 months and have already memorized every gate most of the solar system contents for every planet from amarr to mai, and all i had to do was go out and play the game 2 hours a day.)"
"button idea is done, its called right click menu in the star field.dislike pos idea.pi update, i dont quite get why, that takes away most of the dynamics of how extractors work. for factory planets it works, but then you are just lazy."
"this, doesn't really haven anything to do with the op idea, and in of itself is pretty awesome.you should make it its own topic really.yes, its happening.pl statistically has the highest concentration of sp of any alliance in eve right now (no i can't remember what website it was, we have like 7 of the top 10 sp alts in game, and our average sp is like 85 million) and i can tell you that we have people constantly losing skill points.we make fun of them, but they won't stop, i personally screwed up my clone hopping twice now and have suffered."
"solution:-remove clones-make it so you can perma \"bind\" (till bound somewhere else) to any station that has med lab for free (or really small fee)-profit**clones adds nothing to the game anyway** its like learning skills, its here, but it doesnt make sense, should be scrapped imo"
"clones are an isk sink, a punishment for idiots, and another consequence for dying. they add plenty to the game, and should not be removed."
"losing ship and implants (which might be worth more than billion of isk in some cases) is enough punishment for dying. clones are pointless and their mechanics are very clunky - punishing players for not pressing one button every time and then or punishing them for having more sp than others (lol?) is really dumb. adds nothing to the game, but unneeded overcomplication."
"the clone upgrade mechanic is what lets you incapacitate someone's medical service and make their pilots lose sp every time they're podded (or have to move their clone somewhere else, potentially far away).not supported."
"there's always the character exchange. you could sell your high-sp characters and start fresh with a newbie .. and a few billion isk."
"you've been playing this game how long and haven't learned the most important lesson in eve?0/10, bad troll post is bad"
"being able to (with permission settings) refine and sell directly out of the corp hangar would be great.why do i always feel like i'm making suggestions about a game in beta release stage?ccp, y'all need to get on the f***ing ball."
"1. open game browser.2. go to dotlan maps"
"no one?"
"as posted over on failheap by treborupdate:delivered: trebor 7, mittens 5, vile rat 2, two step 2, elise randolph 3assigned but not delivered: diagoras 1 (intro session, non-controversial, almost completed)yet to be done:ccp comments & csm reactionfinal editing, style conformation -- my jobfinal draft reviewi am pushing for a release date of monday, june 27."
"been supporting it for the last decade (it felt like one) and i'm not going to stop now.regards, lax"
"fix this pls"
"so to buff 0.0 would be to nerf 0.0? wouldnt a perfectly fine method of nerfing highsec and minimal nerfing lowsec be a superior method? suddenly all highsec industry slots cost 15% more materials. while buffing amarr stations so productivity is like insane fast. currently 30% time bonus. how about 50%? the goal being to keep slots open. if people manage to get 30 day lines on would be like 60 days worth of stuff in highsec. suddenly building stuff in pos is meaningful and fighting over moons leads to far more destruction of everything."
"i'll support this, although my faith in anything getting done is practically zero.c."
"+1loads of good ideas in here so ill add what i would like to seefirst . moon harvesting in wh to get wh and pos specific stuff most notably of wich would be ice for ice fuels . secondly micro managable permissions .. i want to see individual permissions"
"no"
"**** no!"
"vote cosmetic"
"no."
"no! to micro-transactions"
"still supported... even if this \"forum\" won't let me support it as often as would apparently be necessary+1regards, lax"
"signed because i dont like vherokior squinty eyes"
"iirc, ccp said somewhere that, at least initially, cq will be optional"
"signed"
"supported, please give us an disembark capsule option. it makes sense and i think is the ultimate solution to satisfy the majority of players on the issue at hand."
"not signed.go make some friends, join an alliance, or disband. thats what a war dec is designed to do. or just dont play."
"read the eula and terms of service. the game isn't presented in the way it works; quite the opposite really. how about we google: how eve works? nope, all i get is a lot of stuff on eva. aside from extra vehicular activities in space, nasa, and the like, none of it is even closely related to eve.we'll try something simpler, and more direct: eve gameplay.we have:"
"i think there should be war decced zones.nullsec war ( basically free)lowsec war ( only fighting allowed is low-null sec)a medium sec which is wars in .5-.7 sec or lower,and high sec, .8~ 1.0and have each one cost more then the other.this makes sense because if i want to wardec a lowsec alliance it would be cheaper then people who stay in the highest security of highsec.this means +griefing highsec will be more costly + bigger isk sink+ wardecs in lowsec might happen more+ people might openly declare war in nullsec more+ now when wardecced u might be able to undock depending on the type or war-+ highsec \"pvpers\" ( read bad players) will cry that they have to pay moreproposed cost corp/alliancenull 2mil/20millow 20mil/40milmed 50mil/100milhigh 100mil/150milcurrently, a wardec is 2mil for a corp ( free) and 50mil for an alliance ( cheap considering someone can run 4 missions and make over 50mil"
"bump"
"bring back overpowered faction missiles to counter angel ships and artillery"
"fix courier contract forwarding that includes containers!"
"just because you don't understand why they are doing something, doesn't mean they don't have a good reason. this option allows ccp to collect personal information on indivduals who run api accessing sites and trade in isk with the playerbase. it also allows the admin's of those sites to make money from donations, or commercial means using those sites, while working within the parameters of ccp's eula and tos, provided they are interested.if you read the blog, you'd know that it's in talks at this stage, and open to changes. you'd also know that ccp intends to have a free licensing available for applications and sites which do not, and have no intention of making money or isk off of this. everything is still open to discussion, and any 3rd party develoiper can bring up their issues with ccp.i admit, it might be a shock to have this news released, but it's a perfectly acceptable alternative to not having this availability, which is potentially problematic legally, uses bandwidth on ccp's servers through api functionality, and generally has been the subject of support development on ccp's end.as for your comment, if you don't want to respond, then that's fine, and more your issue than mine. this discussion has been tremendously lacking in cross-communication anyway. nice insults by the way. i'd respond in kind, but i'm not going to stoop so low for the likes of you. if you can't see reality for what it is, and step outside your little shell of fantasy and delusions, then that's your problem. i honestly don't know how old you are, but i get pictures in my head of some 30 year old child running around his mothers basement in his undies when i think of it.edit:i will give you this: it's likely that a lot of the recent developments in this area are a result of ccp's dealings with sony, who is known for extensive legal contracts and terms of service. i have little doubt, that with the development of dust 514, ps3 exclusivity and certain terms of their contract with ccp, some of these requirements were laid on the table."
"bumped for more discussion."
"if it was something you could set in a configuration menu, without ticking off individually every time you complete, sure, why not. nothing wrong with the idea, as long as you can change your mind later."
"laser buffer and ham buffer layouts are fine. you will really really need those medium slots. getting fewer would really gimp those setups.what's ****ed up is ewar/cov ops legion. ewar takes most of your high slots while cov ops gives ****ty laser bonus and no drones at all. compared to any other tech 3 it's ridiculous.amount of medium/low slots is hardly problem with any useful setup i know of. having a lot of medium slots allows you to do beautiful things."
"while i understand the underlying reason behind the agent quality change, i really miss the reward of seeing more and more agents open up as you work with a corp. given that the change involved both access and reward quality, how about reverting to the old way for access and the new one for rewards? with the above setup, you would still get a sense of progression for those that are interested in that. at the same time, you would maintain the same end state of having a larger number of high quality agents available."
"no"
"1) hell no.2) maybe."
"what bothers me right now is that some corps agent/division for who i was raising standings doesn't exist in high sec any more. the only available choice is afk hauling stuff from 3 to 7 jumps away again and again and again and again.thank you ccp for removing choice and also \"grats\" to set the only soe lvl4 agent (security) in osmon.wait, osmon is in caldari space right? -7 jumps from jita right? has 3 nice ice belts too. please ccp make some static ded 5-6-8, some hidden belts with end ores and ice, also add a couple of roid belts, like 15 or 20 eh?"
"i think the new divisions rock. maybe more uniform agents, but still. who wants half trade and half battle missions? the old system had lots of agents no sane person would want to touch because of a goofy ass mix of mission types. if a person is a miner or hauler doing level fours it is pretty crazy to give them a mission that requires bs skills they might not have. -\"normally we haul things but i want you to kill some serpenties battleship fleets today\"why can't mission diversity enthusiastics just work for a corp with diverse agent types, and take missions from agents in multiple divisions?"
"(first, the obvious)being a pirate in eve, or engaging in low sec warfare at all can a pain because of the obvious repercussion of having your security status dropped every time you kill someone. clearly you cannot go into empire anymore after your sec has dropped below -5, thus making it difficult to survive in eve without an alt to do the logistical \"fun stuff\" for you. it is an even bigger pain to regain your sec, especially without contacts in an alliance/corp in null sec that would allow you to rat in peace. even if you have access to a quiet ratting area it can take upwards of three weeks of non-stop, system to system ratting to reach -2 to allow you to go anywhere in empire. basically, all these \"punishments\" for simply wanting to engage in pvp are serious restrictions that make the game much less fun to play for those who play it for the pvp interaction, regardless where. (and now, the proposal)to fix this issue i do not suggest we change null sec, or low sec as that would unbalance the game. i propose we allow negative security status players into empire without being attacked by npc's, but can be attacked by other players, however if said person attacks another player first, they will get concorded. the mechanic would work the same way as taking out of someone else's can; if they attack you (you having too low of sec for that system), you can attack them, and only them. this would allow people with negative sec to go into empire at a risk, but be able to defend against a lone attacker. they would have access to supplies but would have to take great caution to retrieve them. fleets of neg sec people into high sec would be extremely difficult to run because they can only attack the players that attack them. for instance if you and your neg sec buddies go into empire, a fleet of players could just pick you off one by one, thereby making it impossible to gain an advantage in empire. it think this would encourage pvp everywhere in the game but mostly in low sec because players would then be able to survive being neg sec, but with much greater ease than previously."
"great idea, when i was a pirate hated couldnt go get ships, and carebearing sucks!!!! so took like three months to get sec status up in 0.0"
"as a corollary to my idea, i like it.approved.edit: meaning this is very similar and could have been appended from the idea i posted in the linked thread above. i didn't mention concord in that post, because i felt it was unfair and poorly concieved to have both players and concord attacking negative security status players in highsec. the notion of player policing is a good one, but concord still needs to exist for other reasons, such as those you mentioned.i think it's a great idea, and would like to see the game change this way, new shard or not."
"i had this idea awhile back too. npc police dominance sucks in any game. let the players do as much of the enforcing as possible."
"you can come to high sec as you wish when i can get concord to come to low sec.till then i will enjoy your pirate tears."
"what does concord have to do with it?"
"suggested before, but since incursions will be around for all time how about decrease the security status of the system during an incursion? enabling influx of pirates sporadically throughout new eden.hence empire 6.0 empire space becomes 5.0, and 5.0 empire space under incursion becomes 4.0. or whatever, it doesn't have to be exact as the security rating. which can be justified through the economic/mil power of the sovereignty. this would also be valid for 0.3, dropping to 0.2,0.1 etc. into the negatives. overall, all security systems will suffer under an incursion enabling influx of different pilot ratings anywhere in the cluster for a short period of time. = epic"
"not supported.this idea is making wrong assumptions. high sec is no pure pvp area. thus those who dont like to participate in pvp have to be protected from people who would target every ship if they can.while \"ganking\" is a wanted game mechanic, the security loss is as well. when you had your fun at cost of others, its only right that you take your time to enter high sec again - in the end the carebears have to replace their lost stuff as well and that takes time too.furthermore there no advantages to player with high sec standing, why then should people with low standing be pampered?"
"well, this would enable people to endlessly suicide gank people in empire. just using good sec players to transport more ships to safespot or something..."
"working as intended. htfu."
"pvp is a core activity in eve, it needs to be facilitated but in a way that avoids grief play.endless suicide ganking might become an issue but i think that might be solvable. some ideas:keep concord responding to aggression as per current system. however make suicide ganking an economic action, that is what piracy is supposed to be about, captain kid did it for loot not laughs. this means no insurance for concord losses, the rewards should be entirely about the prize. stop concord responding to just negative security.faction police respond to negative security but modified by the pirates standing with the sovereign faction.so a pirate with good (say +5) caldari standing can fly safely in all caldari systems, less safely in amarr (80% of +5) and be unsafe from npc police in gallente and minmatar space. true privateers.this would even give pirates a career choice, privateers with defacto letters of marque via standing or true prize pirates.economic"
"not supported.there are already too much high sec grieffing pussies wardecking without reason just because they hear in 0.0 it's a matter of numbers, so they can flip a few hours get an orange skull over the head and that's it!!! -they're piwates and they own eve also, you choose to kill players and accept the ss reduction. you can also kill bs's rats and see your ss raise a lot faster than any lvl4 mission in high sec will ever give you, just work for it.getting -4 ss is not rocket science."
"there is no such thing as a pure pvp area in eve.the hell they do. but, concord would still respond to an illegal act of aggression.right, but carebears don't have any real shot of getting revenge under the current system... unless you really believe they will go to low sec for it.if there are no advantages, why should there be disadvantages? remember, you would be able to shoot a low security status player in hi sec of your own volition without concord intervention. antipiracy would increase in popularity on a massive scale. what do you mean? concord wouldn't change at all with this idea. or did you think concord were the npcs that hunt down outlaw players in the 'wrong part of town'?it is impossible to avoid grief play since the entire concept is relative. there are miners out there who consider it griefing to mine the same roid as them.suicide ganking won't increase with the lack of security status enforcement, but your idea should have been done a long time ago anyway.concord doesn't respond to mere negative security. they are only triggered by acts of aggression outside of their roe.it sort of works like this already, except that low concord standing is universally reviled by all factions regardless of your faction standing.what does any of that have to do with the idea fronted in this thread?the entire point of the idea, well from my pov anyway, is that hi sec dwellers should have a shot at antipiracy, bounty hunting, and random pvp without having to step into a low sec gate gank camp. -10.0 pirates already frequent 1.0 space to buy things, or just to show off. this change would let other players have a shot at killing them."
"suck it up, mate! you and your pirate scum buddies deserve everything you got! eve is all about consequences, remember? that doesn't just go for carebears, you know. you made your bed, now lie in it."
"truth be told, there is very little that stops a pirate from going all the way to amarr, jita, or rens for new ships or supplies... whether they are -2.0 or -10.0. all it takes is a little forethought and paying attention. what this idea does is stop npcs from forcing pirates to fit for escaping instead allowing other players the chance to do the pirate hunting themselves.honestly, the people against this idea, don't even know the current mechanics enough to make an argument. nothing in this idea will make any change to concord."
"what you are missing, is the current system doesn't protect players in highsec. concord doesn't work, except to shoot down gankers who have calculated losses to account for potential gains. aside from that, the system is useless. players would prove a more effective means of controlling highsec entrance and egress, though gangs of pirates may be largely uncontested.all this plan is really doing, is allowing them to enter and use highsec without being contested by concord. player fleets will develop to counter the pirates, and much fun will be had by all. this doesn't allow negative security status players to gank without being concorded, or attack players in highsec until they themselves are attacked, with concord functioning as usual in such events where they do.it flags those negative security status layers for attack, negating security penalties and concord for players who want to oppose them, making for a much more effective means of countering their activities, while removing the need for them to spend time ratting to avoid npc's. with mechanics of this nature, they will need to spend that time ratting to avoid the players, if they feel like it.this flagging system also appears at -2 and would carry over into lowsec ideally, so players entering low security space, would have the option of legally aggressing known pirates to potentially save their own hide, should they need to. this essentially removes the need to give the pirate first strike in lowsec, which is a handicap for aggressed players who are outnumbered and outgunned.otherwise, aggression mechanics would work as usual."
"and let me reiterate: concord will be working as intended in response to suicide ganking."
"so you want things to be exactly as is but without police interference? have some urge to camp jita 4-4?were you aware of the consequences prior to killing the 50-100 people that -10 needs (unless you pod people)?did you for some reason not get the constant warning messages that appear every time you are about to shoot another in empire?fail, pirate is fail."
"maybe you shouldnt kill those defenceless cyno frigs after all...oh no you blow up someone wait some mins then transport the loot in front of the police to sell it in jite , yeah totally finepirating already has too low consequencesfail, pirate is fail."
"not supportedif you like things player run without concord shooting you, go live in areas without it, low sec or null sec. you don't get rock bottom sec status from shooting people in the badlands, you get it from suicide ganking in highsec which is all to common enough. you should be happy concord and the empires ever forgive that kind of stuff though work and effort, and not be blacklisted for life.if this is put in effect, people are going to suicide gank 10 times more often in high sec no repercussions whatsoever. it makes no sense to ever have fugitives walking right into proper society. if concord is not going to do anything about them, that would remove the who purpose of concord. leet pirates can live on their own, outside of concords security.and add to that, even with -10 sec status you are actually allowed in highsec, you can use gates, you just can't fly any ships (save pod or shuttle?) past security checkpoints without losing them. can't defend yourself, well tough ****, empire police sure as hell don't want you having fair fights with all your fancy toys."
"yea after the fact, which don't make a dam difference if the target is blown up and all the loot gone. concord police -\"hey i see a wanted felon at the gate bringing in dangerous ship into the system, let em pass and go about on to do whatever, we are not going to judge him until he suicide ganks and pod kills again\""
"hmm, i wasn't aware you had to have low sec status to camp jita 44.nobody is suggesting any changes to concord. at all.how does a suicide ganker get to -10.0?immaterial.what are you smoking?concord, as always, will do what it does... shoot people breaking the roe.concord wouldn't be protecting the pirates... is this confusing?suicide ganking issues are separate issues. suiciding is not piracy.same as now."
"do you even know how mechanics work, or what suicide ganking is?you get a ship with high alpha and kill enemy before concord gets in, concord gets you but not before you blow up, hauler full of ziongold/tech3 or other billion dollar ship/golden rocket/special edition ship. you take security drop proportional to the sec status of system for blowing up ships, thats what makes gankers hesitant about doing it very liberally unless it is a one of kind target (that makes grinding back up sec status worth it). suicide ganking is doing any act of piracy in highsec, which makes those uber security drops, it is also suicide to do it in any ship with concord rapidly responding as it always does and instapoping. the gank is if you have high enough alpha to get the kill before you die.if you don't believe me go try shooting people in high sec, see how long you last and how your sec status goes. if no changes to concord, then have em keep shooting wold be leet pirates with negative set status coming in high sec trade hubs with gank ships. no problem, no change needed. pod travel if you want to visit."
"and no concord/empire fleet shouldn't be so stupid to let you walk into a system or out of station with a gank ship with negative sec status.-\"hey concord can you guys wait to shoot me in my arty malestorm until after i go on another killing spree again today, ok :d, i don't want to lose it before i am doing another suicide gank, got to get into position again in jita 4-4 with another hauler with jewgold. can you guys also let me do high sec missions so i can bear in safety while being the most wanted man in 3 regions of space.\"yea i am sure this new mechanic of porous borders and lazy concord officers will not be abused. it will allow you to freely float in empire with that horrible sec status that you 'supposedly' got in low or null sec, you didn't get low sec status for pod killing/blowing up freighters in jita 4-4 right? that is that 'other' person who will be magically exuded."
"no.just...no."
"quoting the ultimate carebear."
"i think i've stated in about 14 different ways, that i'm happy with the direction eve is taking; it does seem everyone else has a problem with it. lots of requests for rollbacks here."
"sorry, that was meant to be a more general statement - not directed at you per se.my apologies my meaning was less than clear."
"appreciate that."
"the facts are that everyone is not made equal. yes we all can get a car but some of us are not poor and can afford some luxuries for that car. so here is my proposal:allow us to add more calibration to a ship at the cost of some aurum. the bigger the ship, the more aurum needed. i am thinking it should be no less than one hundred (100) calibration.this is not some game breaking advantage like an extra module slot. just a bit of wiggle room for rigs."
"it does allow something that would not be possible normally, hence = advantage with rl cash. no.and lose that red text, it`s horrible."
"no and no. aurum for pure esetics is barely ok . anything else . no"
"why not this : ships should need fuel to warp / jump , let that fuel be aurum--> constant income for ccp ^^ everybody happy"
"you can use bubbles within zero of these things, why can't you use smartbombs? eve is supposed to be hardcore, i don't see why you cannot smartbomb within zero of stations."
"thats only ship-deployed bubbles. you can't put anchor-able objects within 2k (aka: anchor-able bubbles).as well, bubbles wouldn't \"negatively\" effect a station/gate. a smart bomb would probably do a little damage to the structure. :derp:"
"then there should be a possiblity to search you then take all your stuff and perma kill your char in one go"
"not to bash any of the idea above me, what i am going for is that super low hanging fruit. it would only take minutes to adjust the timers.what i am asking for is the equivalent of putting on a small spare tire on a car with a flat tire. until you get the car in the shop for proper tire. ccp, we are tired of driving with a flat tire. dramatically reduce the timers till we (actually you lol) get the pos to the shop.you could easily get this done for incarna with a matter of a few key strokes. please, we are begging you."
"if you want smaller corps or allainces to get part of the graph then all your realy need to do is add moon mining to wormhole space. becouse of were it is it makes it much easyer for smaller numbers to hole over larger numbers."
"if you build anything in nullsec, take sov or put up a pos... it is published on the web within an hour.how the hell is having everyone with web access able to see that small_corp_010 just built a pos or claimed sov going to help then get a footing when nobody even has to visit the system to find them before forming a quick pos bash party?wh space doesn't have this so small groups can build up there but sov nullsec? either cough up the isk to a landlord or expect to lose anything you try - even if nobody has been to the system in the last year, they'll make a special trip out \"just for you\".really sorry - it might be nice if they could but the game just isn't designed for smaller groups to get sov - not with afk monitoring tools across that space."
"except that worms are not technically null and that they already have access to some of the best revenue streams in game.if you want small-fish to thrive in shark infested waters then you create an environment where agility, speed and coordination has value.solution: eradicate ehp as the main mechanism with regards to sov (ie. what ccp presumably meant to do with dom before they got distracted by spacebarbie). result: allow small tight groups to make their mark.permanently kills off afk empires.rewards intelligence, coordination and management.most importantly: neuters the blob."
"only via a new mini profession explorer."
"i think some new 0.0 regions would be good for the game. only can get to them via a wh, only have what you bring with you, no pos's, no stations no vendors etc. you have to build stargates, put up pos's and build stations for you to use. so exploration of the new regions would be slow going, a lot fighting over what little resources that is there to build up some infrastructure. i think new regions like that would entice many to head out for the fun, pvp and trying to build up something new. nothing is there but what you build."
"now we all heard that in initial stage \"ishikune what-his-name scorpion\" will cost only aur and not regular scorpion as part of price. csm stated that its ok, since it will not affect market in large way, and since it is only temporary thats understandable (if it infact will be temporary, please be it so).however it may be used by 0.0 alliances with a lot of plex/cash to spend to do this in this initial step: - get tons of aur - easy part for them - get tons and tons of those scorps in some remote operation base that dont have sufficient supplies - reprocess.. - profitthere fore it will give them option to create minerals anywhere before ccp will activate scorpo for scorp transaction. for example how long it takes to mine minerals for titan? how many plexes you have to spend to get them instantly in target location? probably a lot but it can happen."
"it's very easy to balance aur purchases with potential profit in game as a result of reprocessing/reselling the product of those purchases. all you need to do is take into account the plex-isk conversion ratio on average, (no consideration for the past month here), which is about 350 million isk, value that against the plex-aur conversion ratio, and price the ships in aur accordingly. always make any reverse conversion of ship/reprocessing to isk a minimum 30% loss."
"bumping good ideago go carbon ui"
"i support this ideal fully."
"very nice idea to help out and a tutorial on that portion of the ui would help them understand weapons a lot better.leave the current overview functionality, put an option in to disable this effect but set the option \"on\" to help new players out. older ones can turn it off (and mutter about it - no big)."
"nice idea. i think i mentioned something similar in the csm threads on ui improvement. anything like this to help people who deal with visual queues better than spreadsheets of raw data would be nice. bring us one step closer to flying our ships.edit: support.also, i think the icons should extend to all targets, rather than the current one, and could also include signature radius, and other factors, purely optional. these could be detailed using currently existing tracking icons and the like, while displaying the appropriate information beside the icon. out of range targets should grey out the appropriate icons.come to think of it, that just sounds like more clutter, even if it's optional clutter, as the overview is. tactical huds would be nice, so we could switch between one of a few options we premade at will. say a hud for tackling, another for sniping, ewar, etc... just a button click and the overview swaps out. i'd love that.there has to be a better way of doing what you suggested, but it's not really occuring to me right now. too much data to account for, which is why we're all using excel spreadsheets in space.i'm almost tempted to say move the icons to the overview and put the color shift there, which would significantly reduce overview space requirements. switch on and off as desired. even that though, tends to simplify things too much. i'd still like to deal with numbers for tracking and the like, i just have an issue with clutter and ease of use. i also don't think it should be too easy to do this, with players just going for the green. that would also lead to many other factors being ignored, which happens sometimes anyway.something that should really be fixed as well, is the default overview, which really has 0 functionality, aside from basic navigation."
"hell, the whole vector trajectories should be an option to be toggled in the tacital overlay. i have high hopes that with the carbon ui the tactical overlay gets the love it deserves to be the most excellent tool in fights."
"supported"
"i don't think donation driven free sites should require commercial licences.however, if you put 100 ads there and charge money or isk for services it's obviously commercial service with aim for profit which should require a licence."
"i could agree if ccp'd make ingame appstore and take some percentage from license sales (would it be real cash or isk), but in current form it looks ridiculous.at least appstore endorses 3rd party devs to use it - it gives easier access to apps for all the eve crowd."
"you don't want to pay? -don't do it"
"hopelessly supported!+1"
"i just wanted to reiterate that black ops would only be able to boost the ships they can bridge."
"i like the idea, but i won't 'support' an idea that is infested with the op's own alts."
"alts, what alts? these are all mains.also, do you have any feedback or comments about the idea, or do you like it exactly as it is?"
"the general idea is solid, the details are of course debatable."
"if matar ships werent already way too good : minmatar:boost velocity and sig radiusi propose :lower cap use on guns"
"you can only jump once every 24 hours which keeps eve at the same size. i'm just asking for more room to store implants.."
"absolutely supported."
"yes. if you have various precious implant sets for various ships 5 jump clones is not enough.reducing 24h timer is also a good idea."
"signed"
"supporti verbally count out loud as i hit zeros. oh god, with full director. give me m's and b's please."
"and what's next, identity card, driving card and high diplomas required to play eve or you're refused?i'm ok with that, take plex away and make every account pay 100$ per month.seems pretty simple the way op put it, every ones uses those terms.so yes op, no to you."
"not empty quoting this"
"should be easy to fix then."
"so sometime next month if we are lucky?in all honesty, this is unacceptable. i don't know what is taking so long but holy **** this is pathetic. whatever it is you guys are doing, it obviously is not effective. maybe stop playing tanks for a day and hammer the minutes out or something. lol"
"look at the list above; those who voted for people not listed there are to blame for the delay."
"fun is subjective, not objective.just because you don't find mining fun doesn't mean that others don't. i've had corp mates that loved nothing more than unwinding from a stressful day by fleeting up, cranking tunes, and munching rocks while shooting the ****. while you could be right in suggesting that the majority of the \"fun\" for some may be derived from chilling with bros; you can neither assert that this is the case fore everyone involved, nor the notion that they would even be chilling with each other without the mining aspect. by making macro mining a feature you would be punishing this play-style as macro mining is by definition more efficient than doing it the old-fashioned way.in short, screw you and the macro mining horse you rode in on."
"yeah stealing mission loot is kind of ****ish and is it's own separate problem. but it doesn't really make trading kill rights that broken. i could just go loot scooping mission loot in my main, goad them into shooting me, and then jumping them later in a nice t2 fit hac build for ganking mission runners.and you only get kill rights on you for shooting someone. and if you shoot someone there are repercussions, that's life. (...well that's eve)let's be honest, the people who get ganked outside jita are probably hapless carebears who have never fired on anything other than npc pirates in their eve career. why not let them sell their kill rights to someone who plans on taking advantage of it.i'll be honest i haven't done a lot of fighting in highsec. but i'd assume that the phat lootz i'd get from blasting someone apart would make up for the cost of the contract. so when browsing kill rights on contract you could look at the person's record on the battle clinic killboard. if they are just getting in groups of thrashers and jumping retrievers then it's probably not worth it.but if they have regular kills in one system (jita, rens, dodixie) in my timezone and they are flying a battlecruiser or something bigger, i'd definitely be willing to pay a mil or so for the chance to camp outside a station and wait for them to get gcc (assuming they are in a wardeck and don't get concorded right there) or float outside the undock range. then maybe i could get 5 mil or so in loot drops depending on their fit (plus salvage).yeah i'd definitely buy 20 kill rights of people who hang out in jita. then hang outside the undock ganking the gankers, and scooping their loot. sounds more fun than ratting.speaking of that i hear they patched the way aggression effects remote repping. that would really change weather or not kill rights are a feasible thing. station games are annoying, and i'd hate to not be able to take out their logi for fear of being concorded."
"the problem isn't the ship, it's the fit you've tried to bolt onto it. the sin's bonus is actually very good if used properly (equivalent effect on agility, of having 2x nanofiber fitted).really the only major problem with the sin is the same as the others - not enough jump range to realistically *do* the sneaky beaky stuff. oh and blasters..."
"just make them be able to participate in small battles, as i would like to use them for fightand a logis probably wont be fielded with them ,make them much more resilient ,t2 resists at least + better base hp-s"
"hell yes that way my alliance doesnt have to go all out when we want to get **** down to catch"
"no"
"no"
"what about if i tell my corp to watch out for a cork sucker called darth vader as he has been known to corrupt jedi. he changes his name and escapes the reputation."
"not supported, your name is your reputation. u may be able to change your looks, but never your name, this isnt world of warcraft..."
"i actually like the cq; but more options are good."
"i like incarna, but i don't want it to have its way with me. /signed"
"cq ruined my game experience, i logged on sisi to test something and i had to log off after 5 minutes. and not because of technical problems but because of anoying game experience!out of the topic, i love this game and ive been playing for 4 years now and i dont like the way is going, making it more and more 'stupid user friendly' each day to become like one of the milion user mmorpgs on market, and that only ruins the game experience for the player base that is here for other reasons./signed"
"supported"
"please ccp, make cq optional."
"please make cq an optional feature where u don't need to go by default after logging in.cheers,rebel"
"please ccp make cq optional, and leave the hangar view in!"
"i know you're an alt and all, but what?"
"this idea makes some sense. it could be even simpler ... 0.8 to 1.0 is a safe zone, period, i.e. concord does not respect war decs in those systems. or perhaps the defending corp in a war can ask for safe haven in one particular empire, so only 0.8 to 1.0 of gallente space would be safe, for example.this would serve the same purpose as my proposal, which is that player-made corps with mostly inexperienced members would have some relief from constant war decs. your idea is to provide that relief by location, rather than time, which actually is appealing. if that is done, high level agents should be moved to 0.7 and lower systems, so that players under war dec face a risk/reward choice when deciding if they want to move up to better missions."
"yes for the love of all things.me and my mini 7 friend corp got war dec by this @hole in a navy gedon so we all fit up drakes and a black bird along with 2 neut/drian/tackle ships to see if we could take him with minimal loss. we had him dead to rights with hull damage till a nuetral repper domi showed up to bail his sorry hide out. neadless to say we lost that battle but he droped the war dec.please fix this."
"no , logis cant tank that well--> this would make scimi even more op and basilisk totally worthless"
"suck my willy you bloody eyed emo twilight watching vapire loving, the-world just doesn't understand me post pubescent teener. apparently you can't google youtube yourself to prove me wrong wench. go back to watching gossip girl. if you are going to drag this convo down into the bowels of blind name calling, i will no longer dignify your presence with any response."
"revamp similar to projectile ditto, keeping it as simple as possible. since there are only two damage types in play we can cut number of ammo types to an even six.short range (0.5 range modifier - 14 damage (+1)):antimatter - 8 thermal / 6 kinetic.plutonium - 6 thermal / 8 kinetic.medium range (1.0 range modifier - 10 damage - 20% tracking and falloff bonus):iridium - 6 thermal / 4 kinetic.thorium - 4 thermal / 6 kinetic.long range (1.4 optimal modifier, 1.2 falloff modifier, 6 damage, 10% tracking bonus):lead - 4 thermal / 2 kinetic.tungsten - 2 thermal / 4 kinetic.rails get a 15%? dps increase evenly spread on damage mod and rof.blaster ships get a 20%-25% speed increase with a corresponding inertia penalty. we want them fast in straight line but have poor maneuverability.armour repair bonuses reduced to 5%/level but apply to external repairs as well.base armour on blaster boats increased 15%-20%? to compensate.gives blasters a better choice of damage type with better thermal being one of them. allows blaster pilots to sacrifice some damage for above auto tracking by loading medium range."
"thx but no if there will be a hybrid change it shouldnt be a copy of projectiles ,make them different"
"apart from ammo size changes i would rather prefer a nerf of proj ammo to kin/expl dmg only in order to level the playfield.anything else should rather be changed on the guns and most of all the ships to bring them back in line."
"i see nothing wrong with this. i particularly like the volume counter idea, as that would be enormously helpful for setting up these contracts. that's plaenty of filters, but i suppose they might be neccessary, and they're all relevent. lastly, i think the corp role for courier contract acceptance is great, and would help immensely with making courier contracts a shared corp activity.great idea. +1"
"as it stands the ncc (new character creator) was designed for creating new characters, which required us to create a portrait at the end of the process, and was then shoehorned into allowing us to re-customise our chars to update our portraits....however in cq it is the mechanism by which we change our clothes....do you retake your passport photo every time you change your make-up/outfit/hairstyle?no, so neither should our eve chars.please support for the option to be able to change your chars outfit without having to redo your char portrait."
"supporting my own thread. +1please do remember to click the support button if you do respond favourably to this."
"it is realy anoying to be forced to take a new portrait-photo when you change your shoes work something out because this is unwanted and unneeded."
"that's a great idea."
"no , pointless change , would just make things worse"
"there should be different types of missions offered by an agent at the same time, with dynamic rewards depending on how many of a given type he has assigned.\"you can do this kill mission for me, but dont expect much payment. there are 50 more people outside waiting in line to do kill missions for me. however i have this courier mission nobody is interested in, i'd pay you a nice bonus if you could do that real quick.\""
"imho, i think it's more important to add variety to the existing npc corps the agents belong to, rather than the agents themselves.right now, there is little difference between working with one corp and another. offering more unique benefits for working with a specific npc corp might help. right now, the only ones that come to mind are station refinery tax and station location."
"only if players who rr the pirate player also get concorded.that would be broken..."
"there is a difference between pirates and griefers, though it may not always seem that way, and sometimes the lines are a little blurry. for those of you that haven't figured this out yet, i'll point something out to you.any griefer, suicide ganker, or pirate almost always has one weak point: his killboards and battleclinic rankings.that means that the most effective way to deter suicide ganking is actually very simple, and will actually assist you in achieving rankings on battleclinic, or otherwise prevent your from becoming too low. fit a gun, load drones, use a sensor booster, train signature analysis to 5, and shoot back.npc kills don't show up on most killboards or battleclinic, but one shot, ecm, drone, or other attack by a player, even from their own corp, alliance, or fleet will post that ship kill to battleclinic and drop their rankings. just make sure you wait until they have aggressed and fired on you.put your sesor booster in f1 slot, ecm in f2, and gun(s) in f3 and carry on about your business. when someone tries to suicide gank you, align, fire up the sensor booster, wait for them to start firing, hit f2 and f3, spam warp if you need it. if your ecm jams them, they may get concorded, and you may loot their stuff, before going on about your business.hulks can use drones to the same effect, along with ecm. unfortunatel, no guarantees the ecm will work, but it's worth a shot, especially if they're flying t1 cruisers and frigs. make sure you set your target back to 3.cheers,"
"confirming that sec status is not designed to produce consequences to your actions, and you can't just go to null to shoot stuff. also confirming that ratting is hard work, and there should be an \"easy\" button that removes sec hit consequences."
"yes, but do you?and your point is... ?which has what to do with the idea put forth? i am well aware of the way sec status works, you still haven't made a relevant point.concord doesn't shoot non gcc players, no matter how low their security status is. you can be -10.0 in amarr and orbit a concord police commander and it will continue playing pocket hockey with the gate as if it was a glazed donut. the imperial navy armageddon on the other hand will try to kill you.the only reasons pirates don't brave high sec are few:1) they don't understand how concord works.2) they do understand how concord works, but realize players will kill them if the npcs don't.3) they just plain have no idea how high sec works beyond they jump in and die.yet they do... all the time. it makes no sense for anyone to be able to fly around empire space heavily armed, but concord and the faction navies let it happen anyway.concord already works like that.what exactly do you think is going to happen? jita 44 is camped by a bs pilot outlaw? why do you assume the rest of the people camping jita 44, won't just shoot the dumb bastard?you don't understand the mechanics yourself. maybe you should fix that."
"why wouldn't they? or do you mean rring before the pirate has gcc? in that case it should happen for all rr."
"quote by stupid- \"just make sure you wait until they have aggressed and fired on you.\"do you understand what suicide ganking is, you use high alpha and blow up target in one shot. one shot one kill they use arty malstorms and megathrons with blasters. you don't get to shoot back, you die in one volley before the drones even leave the hanger bay. if you flying a freighter their is no defense you can do. suicide gankers tend to fight a ship that can't fight back, and if even if it is one that can (like a tech 3 ship) they still go kill it in one shot, using as many of them as it takes. what the maybe even stupided topic maker of the thread was suggesting is after having become a infamous murderer in high sec, that the person be allowed to walk right in with no repercussions, free to go dock up, pick up and fit a new ship, then repeat it again, with no long effort work or redemption. \"npc kills don't show up on most killboards or battleclinic\" the hell you talking about, serious noobs should not speak of things they know nothing about. if players are shooting npcs who cares, that's ratting. sec status gets bombed from ganking and pod killing in high sec of players more then anything else. im not checking no dam records and neither should concord, you do too much clowning, they shoot your ass, no waiting for you to clown again. dont like concord keeping certain people out and oppressed, dont fly in high sec, plenty of regions without them. make your own market hub.the markets which leet pirates want access to flourish in high sec hubs because clowns like that are deterred. the whole market is player driven btw save a select few things. remove any deterents from swarms of ass-clowns and it will be all asscowns in jita 4-4. no need to hang out in low sec if you can have a ganking free for all in the richest of trade hubs, haulers full of all the most precious loot. the whole thing will decline then the only decent trade hubs are going to be in heavy controlled null. to be really blunt its really stupid to expect the best of both worlds. you cant have a decent market you want access too, or safe level 4 agents with unregulated ass clowns butthatery of them docking up whenever they want getting new ships and then gunning down random people whenever they feel like rinse and repeat over and over with next to no repercussions. then high sec basically becomes low sec, where all enforcement of law is basically players. on the same note, its kind of stupid to be expecting the break all the rules pirate and fly freely in battleships in empire controlled space, you like being a outlaw accept responsibility of it, and reap the rewards of living in space with no rules, freedom cuts both ways.if you want travel high sec do it in a pod, just be careful of 5 day heros instapoping yea, blasting your precious implants to bits if you not quick enough in warping around. i guess kind of makes you defenceless and unfair fight. which more the likely what gives people low sec status in the first place doing to others, now they get it back to themselves."
"you really don't have a clue. a -10.0 pirate can fly safely from 1.0 to low sec in a battleship already. they just can't hang around long enough for a player to attack them, and most players never even consider trying..."
"the point about suicide ganking, which is the only ganking you can do in high sec. if people are free to reship and suicide gank any industrial and freighter without concord or pirates shooting them on sight for having atrocious sec status, they are just going to keep doing it over and over again all the time , non-stop forever. because their will be no repercussions whatever. current sec loss mechanics make life in high sec impossible for people who have done much or any high sec pillaging (pod killing or ship blowing up). taking a long grind to be able to walk freely again in high sec, makes a person think twice about that kind of stuff. remove that, and people will not just shoot anything for profit, they will do it for fun. trade hubs in high sec will be blood baths that collapse because no one is wanting to going to bring freighters full of items where every butt pirate can dock up and stock up in ships and resume instapoping people with a paltry 15 min cooldown. i spoke of what the current mechanics are, which do make sense, which the topic maker is suggesting is making npc police wait till repeate offenders on the most wanted list commit crimes and let them walk freely to commit them, going in station getting another cheep fit fully insured alpha bs and doing another one shot volly before anyone can respond. making a thunderdome in jita.player police can be done already with current mechanics in low sec and null sec. go do experiments somewhere else."
"concord and navies one shot shoot you, haven't you heard of global announcements of a criminal entering system and them starting to shot you.belive me i talked with priveter alliance about killing freighters, if they could be shooting people in high sec all they wanted without any long term repercussions beyond loosing the gank ship they would do it all night long, with no war-decs. the current system works quite fine, don't break it with stupid like the topic maker suggested.you try ganking and pod killing people in high sec all you want, and see how long you can do it without long term pentaltys."
"you are frackin dense. concord only engages when gcc is triggered. having too low security status does not trigger concord.period. the npcs that hunt you down when you merely have low sec status are the faction navies. and they do not instant kill you."
"i'm not sure that allowing every single person in the system to attack you with no consequence other than your retaliation could be considered \"pampering\". if you don't think its fair to have pirates in high sec, then shoot them. pirates attempting to acquire supplies from high sec would do so at great risk. the main issue with being neg sec is the inability to get ships, as you would have to train an alt to fly such ships, thus taking up more training time, thus costing you more money, which none of us want. this small game mechanic would not increase ganking, someone please explain how the two even relate (if i, a -10 pirate, want to destroy your precious hulk mining away right now, i could do it for under 5 mill, thus nothing would change) the only thing that the introduction of this game mechanic would do is encourage pvp in the game and dial down the punishment for wanting to play the game for why it was made, pvp interaction."
"as stated many times before...the concord mechanics would not change regarding aggression. as it stands, if you do any sort of remote assistance to a flagged player, you receive a global and thus get shot at by concord."
"this post also seems to have taken a turn for the better as suggested by other people. right now if i want to take my 3 billion isk vindicator 10 jumps through high sec to get to another low sec area, you can't stop me, the faction police lock me, web me, and allow me to warp before you can get a point (unless you are waiting in an interceptor which is highly unlikely) this game mechanic would allow people to catch pirates in empire, and the amount of pirates in empire would increase as a result of the change. now, a vindicator is a nice ship and not a lot can stop it, but all it takes is an interceptor with a point to catch a pirate in one on a gate, then you can get the whole system to come help you kill him. for all the carebears and good doers in the game that think this would be \"pampering\" the pirates and neg sec players, you are sorely mistaken. in fact it would create an extreme inconvenience because we would no longer be able to travel through high sec worry free. we would need to have a scout to get through safely. however, to us pirates, i think the loss is worth the gain."
"you do understand that by aggressing first in highsec, that makes you the ganker and concorded, and in lowsec, it means the gate guns fire on you, rather than them right? maybe you don't.also, i'd like to see the maelstrom fit that can alpha a freighter."
"yes, atm they can't hang around to keep suicide ganking indefinitely nonstop. and yes, carebears don't shoot them when they come across them at gates in their freighters. you know why it would break the game, but apparently wants it broken, while pretending to be ignorant."
"what i don't understand is why you, and the other mental midgets, don't know that an outlaw is shootable by anyone without concord aggression. this change would let players get their revenge, how can that not be a good thing? do you honestly think suicide gankers will change their mo? not really, they will still grind their sec back up to do it again, because the entire point of suicide ganking is to not get into a fair or even losing fight. the idea that suicide gankers will roam high sec as outlaws is preposterous."
"i think you are failing to grasp how insignificantly small this change would be. you won't see outlaws \"hanging\" around empire because that would be too risky for them, believe it or not, most pirates are poor and can't afford to lose a ship by getting blobbed in high sec. the only thing that i'm proposing is to have concord and faction police not shoot at outlaws when they are in system, nothing else would change. i hardly think it would break the game."
"even though i am always on the receiving end of piracy, i support the proposal. high sec players can currently sneak into low sec to do their business, if they manage to avoid hostile players. the proposal would place low sec 'pirate' players in the same position. they can come to high sec to do their business if they manage to avoid getting shot by high sec players. we don't really need npc police for this."
"precisely my view. ccp is always iterating that eve is run by the players, this change would only solidify that perspective."
"bs, pirates can do this already with alts anyway."
"not completely true. sure i can bring supplies with a hauler alt and a few cruisers or a battlecruiser, but for battleships i need to get it myself, or have a freighter bring it, which is risky business. also, if you are a pirate, there is a high probability that you will lose sec on all of your characters, not just your main."
"still feigning ignorance? or are you the \"mental midget\" that you referred to?either way, i'll spell it out for you. nobody will shoot you if concord doesn't. i don't even bother warping pod after suicide gank, just scoop loot asap and dock up. it's what's valuable. sometimes i just forget about it and leaves it at gate while checking out loot in station, it lasts the entire gcc and always stay alive. this is on a major pipe, and there's bounty, you'd think some passerby will bother... but no, everyone has somewhere to be and something to do. anyone who wants to \"remove concord\" is either disingenuous or have no idea how highsec works. so, no for breaking the game. htfu and get ratting."
"nope, i know well what i am talking about.if concord is shooting you, who would have the chance to shoot you?just so you know, your pod is protected by concord once your ship is destroyed by them. i would have thought you knew that. i guarantee if there was a red flashy pod sitting somewhere, everyone and their cyno alt would be shooting at it.i personally go after every flashy pod i can. do i catch them? never really, because outlaws know better than to sit still in a pod in high sec.nobody wants to remove concord (at least in this thread), anyone who knows how 'highsec works' would know that. you are a fracking ignorant tool. stfu and gtfo."
"for the love of god, this thread is not about suicide ganking first of all, has nothing to do with it, the change as proposed would not increase nor decrease the amount of suicide ganks. and ffs this thread is not about removing concord, please stop commenting if you can't realize this."
"ah, so it's feigning ignorance then. it is about increase suicide ganks, as i will no longer have to choose between ratting up sec or end up with a useless alt. nonstop ganks, anyone?"
"fail troll is fail."
"nothing to say, heh? you already know nobody is going to bother shooting you if police doesn't. if you get shot anyway, there would've been no point in suggesting it. this facade is paper thin."
"nah, i'm fairly sure your argument is paper thin. you are suggesting that it is pointless to allow pirates in empire because no one will shoot them? clearly your perspective is from a carebear point of view and your too lazy to engage in such pvp. i mean i can't credit you enough to know such things when you've been in a noobie corp for more than a year. this change benefits both neg sec and positive sec players equally and i'm sorry you fail to see that."
"lol, leave pod at gate, see how many hours it takes to get shot by some passerby. in my case, there's even bounty on the toon, and nobody bothers. i always end up podding it myself once it reaches 30+ mil (relatively low sp ganker spec). you either already know that and is making a fool out of yourself, or you are an actual fool."
"let us consider for just one moment that a ship is in fact different from a pod. you cannot speculate on whether someone will or will not go to the trouble of shooting you if you are an outlaw in empire because there is no previous evidence with this change in mind. your being rather hasty if you suggest that because no one shoots your pod in empire, no one will shoot your ship. maybe at first that would be the case but i'm certain that after a while people will be aware of the change to the point where they will go to the trouble."
"it's unlikely they would risk shooting a ship that can fight back, if they won't even pop an afk pod and collect the easy bounty while at it."
"i understand that's and educated assumption but you still have no way of knowing that would turn out to be the case. half the point of this change would be to encourage pvp, so it could in fact prove to increase pvp actions in empire."
"then we'll have to keep wondering, because ccp's not going to let this disruptive \"change\" to ever see the light of day."
"i said concord and police in the ambiguous terms. referring to npc's that shoot you. people be shooting you up and make it difficult to reship in more gank ships if you get ganked.that on top of this"
"oh bull****, the robber/serial killer comes back to the bank while on eves most wanted list. this time he is making a honest deposit and transaction. please let him in and don't shot em.yea i am sure that only honest pirates will use it, they will enter high sec and behave when they say they will. why not give a text option with empire navies that they convo you and you have to say you will behave this time or they resume shooting you.man it up and get a alt, if you too soft to handle the consequences of piracy never do it. eve is a harsh universe and it runs both ways."
"i can kill anyone in empire i want right now...suicide ganking would noooooooooooooooooot change, ffs. this \"dumb idea\" is about allowing outlaws to retrieve supplies from high sec stations without the use of alts. i never said we had a problem traveling through high sec. and btw, a suicide ganker is not a pirate. just because i shoot everything thats on my overview doesn't mean i can't fight a fair battle. also, it is impossible to get a cruiser or bigger ship out of a high sec station without an insta undock."
"we'll see."
"responding to suicide ganks is not the problem, which will stay the same. the problem is the ease of fitting and bringing in characters who have done it, and in the ships to suicide gank, along with removing just about any repercussions of doing it or any heinous act. -\"hey concord and navys are going to wait until after i commit another crime, ok that is fine cheap suicide fit again, i will have a extra alt in a fast locking frig pop the pod after i blow the ship. my stuff gets blown dock in station fully insure and then repeat in another cheep ship\"now stupid changes to outlaws not being shot for walking in highsec, have all sorts of repercussions for for any crime being done in highsec. suicide ganking included, which is pretty much the only ganking one can do with concord responding. so yea it has allot to do with ganking in highsec. you can't let in one outlaw freely without harassment without letting them all in. the leet pirate who is poor with only a few ships who does 'fair' fights got rock bottom security status with the high sec suicide ganker who can afford hundreds of disposable cheaply fitted ships."
"get supplies, in other words ships with guns with full insurance, sit right on the undock of a station in the cheepest fit possible with no tank. waiting until the perfect target comes then shooting them.outlaws can't hang around gates and stations with current system, new one they can.if you can shoot people all yea want in current system then do it. i see you either hesitating for facing consequences of your actions."
"reaching -10 sec status should result in char delete btw"
"you clearly don't know much about the game other than suicide ganking... well not even much about that.what pod is that? an outlaw's pod? just for your information an outlaw is -5.0 and below. any other pod (unless kr or war is involved) is a suicide gank.yet when there is a clear distinction about which ones do what, you can't be ambiguous, which in this case made you utterly wrong.i know full well how security status works, but thanks for the info anyway.why would anyone have to wait to shoot an outlaw? they are already free game for anyone. the problem is taking advantage of an outlaw's vulnerability is nigh impossible from a pvp standpoint. granted it helps in low sec, but that is a marginal advantage.nobody said it should be otherwise, we just want players to be the 'police' as much as possible.it would add more excitement to eve's empire pvp dynamic. honestly, it sounds like you would like the idea."
"i really don't follow how emptying jita of traders and players from wormhole spaces is a good thing. heck why is a 'fresh start' a good thing? is it so that you will have a whole bunch of noobs starting up an economy all over again? so that you can race to be the first with a raven battleship again???.?how is this good? sounds like the have nots are just wanting a chance to be a haves.the world doesn't work that way sorry.and jump starting a whole economy that has taken 9 years to get almost completely self sufficient with npc seeding all over again isn't what i would call progress by any standard."
"you're right of course; forget i ever brought it up. i realize the rebuilding of an entire economy would take some time and effort. no need to seed it with npc's i'm sure, as everyone pretty much knows how to use blueprints already. some needed drops from combat sites would be neccessary of course, and they would have to make a few changes to starter ships, so they have a little more functionality in the game. all part of the deal of course. the hardest thing would be getting past the first mining barge construction. after that, i suspect things would go much smoother. sure would be a neat ride though."
"on the note of forcing players into pvp, it's the reason i play eve.i've been a wow player for over 4 years and the reason i keep coming back to eve is because there is actual danger in this game: you never know what's beyond the next jump gate or whether or not the random pilot that just showed up is going to try to kill you or help you.while blizzard (and subsequently other developers) keeps nerfing world pvp in order to make it \"fair,\" ccp is one of the few out there that understands true pvp: nothing is unfair. if you don't want to pvp, stay in highsec. risk vs reward is the name of the game in lowsec and nullsec."
"derp."
"i have a better idea. why don't ccp give you free kms?"
"why should ccp hold his hand for him? he can fake his own kms if he is so desperate for them, it isnt *that* hard to fake a km."
"dont make gates /own system"
"still be a regular stargate, not a corp / alliance one where they can set who uses it or not. but that one still has to be built to get to the next system."
"i think you missed a point, which is ability to spawn ships anywhere with that. you need scorpions or tons of resources in some remote drone region? puff, you have enough minerals to build a fleet of carriers (and a huuuge credit card bill :p)as for long term solution what you say is absurd, eve is manufacturers world, if you can buy ships without someone building them in a first place, you are screwing with eve economy. i just hope they will do as promised and introduce ship + aur = painted ship approach."
"do try to keep up"
"make the aur ships not reprocessable.it will create a good isk sink too"
"thx, havent seen that :)"
"uh uh uh, 1 scorpian + some aur = new skin scorpion ( aka the new primary in pvp)your, and all arguments for the current mt are null and void until a game changer is introduced, such as buying modules, bpo's or ships, directly from ccp.so far, other then plex nothing announced will impact eve in such a way that one can have a significant advantage by paying rl cash for the game.i mean, makeing a bait scorpian will now be possible ( that thing would be a juicy killmail) but its not like warping in with 10 of them in a capship fight will autowin."
"i would have liked a longer subject field. i assume this has been brought up before, but it's very difficult to find anything in the forums. i do a lot of exploration and missions, and i would like to see exploration expanded in a similar way to the incarna walking in stations. i would like to be able to explore and find various items in the various structures encountered in the sites and missions, not just shoot the structures to loot a cargo container. it would provide an opportunity to make the content that already exists in concept more interesting. in addition to functional items, varying rarity decorative items for if we get permanent homes, not just temporary quarters rented out by the station could be an option (might be problematic implementing viewing of these items by other players). i'm just not sure how this exploration could be implemented without significant risk to pilot and possibly unmanned ship, given how dangerous eve is to pilots in ships. any ideas or forum threads requesting the same functionality?"
"actualy suported, mostly because i hate that my tangu flys backwords from what it looks like it should."
"no, btw would be cool to fake my ms to an ibis for enemies , they would get a nasty suprise on agression:d"
"how about a graphic like how your modules cycle and the white bit circles around the module. reloading be a red bar that goes in reverse? that way you can see how much longer reloading is going to take. hybrid buff: how about hybrids reload like a shotgun? it still takes the same 10 seconds to fully reload but it goes 1 at a time. so if i'm only half empty on the reload it's 5 seconds. additionally you get the option to start firing again at any time."
"i'll rather prefer a no loot option on ganked ships in high sec .if pirates can't access loots, they will gank no more in empire. piracy should be more effective in low sec however."
"i think this idea about mining module has merit. i quit mining because i found i'd rather read or quick mish than spend every 2min checking cycle, how much in roid 'til i switch roid. a mining module that gave -x% yield or +x cycle time would be fine. i'd even train a super long skill that only reduced the negative impacts by 5% per lvl. but the fitting of it would have to still allow use of cargohold expander mods/rigs or the mod is pointless. and it'd have to be able to fit on a t1 barge as well w/ out losing cargo space. if i'm not cheating, then a module to help me mine hurts noone especially since lasers shut off if i let cargohold fill up anyway. someone mentioned ppl use the macro tools to unload from miners to orca...i don't know how to stop that, but there's no reason not to focus on ways to help make the experience for those who play fair more enjoyable. ccp wants isk sinks, fine, make it a 10 bil bpo. someone will make them. or make it only a 5-run bpc inventable from 1k mining drones and some mod bpc that has super long copy time for a full run and takes mercoxit to manu. ppl are still using 7+ accounts w/ macro tools. if they're not and are able to cycle 7+ toons, scan/click roids/unload to orca/warp/unload orca/warp back/cycle and set hulk follow distances again while orca slowly crawls to right spot/and cycle thru them all every few minutes and do it for 4-23hrs, then they deserve the isk and paid visit for wrist surgery. but it's more likely they're goin off to work, sleep or wally world and able to stuff jita w/ 100's of billions of units of trit over multiple orders. a little deflation of min prices won't hurt. especially if new population keeps a steady rise, then the rise/fall of prices will be normal as ppl go in/out of mining profession."
"first off... no.second, bots have existed since 2003 (release year, yes)third, if it would be legalized, i would surely leave and i have been using this toon since 2003.i'm sure many other long time players would do the same."
"hey guys, any update of progress with those minutes?"
"i appreciate the concerns about transparency. it's a bit of a difficult problem, because a lot of the discussions we have with ccp relate to giving them feedback on stuff, much of which is nda. but we are very active on the topics of the day, such as the sparkle-scorpion for aur, the api developer monetization devblog, etc. i would say internal forum activity is up a bit compared to csm5, but not hugely (as was the case with csm5 vs. csm4).the current status of the minutes:delivered: trebor 7, mittens 5, vile rat 2, two step 2, elise randolph 3assigned but not delivered: diagoras 1 (intro session, non-controversial, almost completed)yet to be done:ccp comments & csm reactionfinal editing, style conformation -- my jobfinal draft reviewi am pushing for a release date of monday, june 27. but a big question is whether the people at ccp have the time to devote to their pass on it, given the impending release of incarna."
"i think i see there point now though... lets say you comment on a large issue *sparkle scorpian* you shuold make a sticky in this forum section explaing your stance on the subject. also make a sticky linking all podcasts and blogs you've made. so by having a easy place for eve players to find all of you're blogs/podcosts they can keep up to date with whats going on. and by making public statements as it's own thread, and not just as a post inside another thread, people will be able to see \"oh, our csm thinks this about this subject. good to know\"like for instance the archived fireside chat should up ina sticky of archived csm announcements. then with the new forums we can rss feed subscribe to the announcements sticky. and always be up to date when the csm has a collective opinion on a major issue."
"there is literally no advantage for the csm representatives to do anything that you guys want them to do.they already won their election. they no longer need you. appeasing you has no reward, and failing to do so has no penalty.when it comes time for elections again, the csm bloc candidates will be elected as always; and, as always, there is nothing the disgruntled people on the official forums can do about it.have a nice father's day!"
"delve deklein is for goons"
"i am flying redeemer and widow,don't know much about the other two blackops, but i assume they are compareable.a bit more fuel space would be fine, but working with cloaked hauler buddies pretty much makes this a lot less of an issue.people have been asking for adding a covert cloak to the blackops, and as a blackop pilot, i have to disagree, a covert ops cloak would boost the blackops way too high, it allready is a good ship for its purpose.alot of people seem to be complaining about buffer, dps output or both, to those i can only say: learn to fit. a proper setup blackops can 1on1 most regular fit battleships.then there is the *****ing about the jump range - guys remember that the blackops is no capital ship and can use regular gates aswell, the jump drive helps in its role as a suprise weapon, but it shouldn't be its primary means of moving arround.i believe that most of the 'blackops need a change/boost' comes from a crowd that in itself has not found a way how to use the blackops yet - the same people that fit cargo extenders on it and use it for a simple bridge. blackops ships as they are are good, they just need to be used in the right role."
"no"
"reading comprehension. try again."
"that's a good point (and interesting scenario), here are my thoughts:do periodic searches on \"darth vader\" (in theory running a search on the old name will bring up his new name) set \"darth vader\" to red and when he changes his name you'll be surprised to find a strange name in your standings. he'll still be red and not an immediate security lapse, but you'll need to notice. which leads me to...someone once mentioned the idea to have an automatic mass mailing wherein everyone either linked to or linked by the character (think character to character standings, block list, etc.) would receive a notification in the event of a name change....but if you're serious about being an \"escaping reputation\" activist, look at the existing in-game feature of character transfers which provides no records (escapes reputation) and no in-game rational (destroys immersion). i'm just using ideas and arguments mentioned in this and other name change threads -- which i can see are becoming more confusing and cumbersome as the op ceases to amend his/her opening post -- should i just open a new thread consolidating these points or would it just be excess clutter?"
"yet another nerf supercarriers suggestion on a random blog."
"you can support the discussion without necessarily being in support of the proposal. film at 11."
"yo"
"goonswarm tears are funcry some morenow that bff is failing all of the sudden the things are overpowerdall eggs in the \"blob out the system\" basket got you screwed ... which is goodabout time the wow players got back to wow"
"supported. not that they'll listen, but you know."
"i would hate to see the hangar view lost forever, i believe ccp is making a very very big mistake"
"far as i heard, you'll get a fixed (ironically also called 'stationary') image of a hangar, when you choose not to load cq. no more spinning in station, boys and girls. :("
"no brainer. supported."
"+1 to optional cq, button to decant, old hangar view remaining."
"yes, please. if the test server is any indication, the current implementation of captain's quarters is just useless fluff."
"this tbh.you should dock normally, as you do now into the hangar view you see now and then have a second button to exit pod and go into your cq.doesn't sound unreasonable and gets round two issues:1. the foolishness of getting out of your ship every single time you dock. oh i need to get out of my ship now cos i left hangar without my repair paste and had to go back for it. sorry, that is daft.2. people who do not want to or can't run the cq or are running multiple clients are free not to unpod."
"this. why teh hell do i need to get out of my ship to unload it. what a stupid idea."
"what a great marketing slogan for eve. why don't they just put that on the box? \"play our way or gtfo\""
"i think their slogan is actually 'welcome to eve online. here's a rubix cube. go **** yourself.'"
"so, what do you think the response would be if you went into a game like wow and suggest implementing the ability to war dec another guild on any server."
"wow also has its contingent of elite players who despise anyone they view as having inferior skills; they would think it's a great idea. the other 90+% of players would hate it though."
"inferiority complex much? christ all i was pointing out is the community in those games would probably have an issue with peeps trying to change the game play."
"something that would make wardecs a bit more sensible is a 1 week cool-down. for new war decs against same corp after one ends (no constant war-decks, ytali convention provision or whatever).also have the war dec cost scale like the author suggested, police officers looking other way demand more to cover the flack they getting as gang war and ganking goes on longer."
"bumpage back to the topage"
"how is this even close to being the same? your solution to the fact that i will lose the ability to instantly uniquely identify a person with a method where i can only identify a category of person? how many reds do you have marked in your contacts???? not enough to grasp how broken your solution is not doubt. and what elephant in the room???? character transfer has a big legitimate use, moving from an alt of one account to the main of a new account because i want to play both at the same time now. in fact the reason that toon transfer is allowed is even more reason to never allow name changes. i like the fact that i can tell a toon that was bought from a farm by the silly names they have. the stickiness of names is one of the reasons ccp allowed toon transfers."
"i don't see a problem with allowing characters' names to be changed. not sure that 'harsh' conditions need to be applied - it could simply be listed as another entry on the 'employment history' tab (perhaps even highlighted to make it stand out for recruiters). limiting the number of changes (e.g. once per lifetime) or the frequency of changes should prevent excessive (mis)use by griefers."
"i don't see the issue with a name change. people are always defending the under handed side of eve by claiming its \"sandbox\", or \"it meta gaming\", so why put a penalty in place for a name change.if we all truely believe that anything goes in eve, how hard would it be to believe that someone paid for a new \"clean\" identity?would it make it more difficult for counter intel? sure, but hey it's eve anything goes as apparent with the latest tourney."
"i support the tuskers idea, heres why:right now i'd say navy faction and t2 frigs are about the same level whereas pirate faction have an advantage (such as dram/daredevil) over both of these classes. if you bump all faction up to make t1 frigs relevant again, you pretty much might as well stop flying them except for ganking people who arent in caracals if the lowest sized plex your faction frig can get into is for cruisers. you still have the same issue as before with navy faction still being allowed with just 1 plex size if you allow navy and not pirate. on the cruiser level all you will see is sfi instead of cynabals, and on the frigate level you will just see people still flying faction frigs so the point of trying to give newer players a chance is moot. i support the tusker's idea of making one t1 frigs (edit: dessies are in a bit of a rough spot, newer players could very well afford and skill them just as easily as a t1 frig, so the first size *could* see dessies) only, then t2/all faction/dessies (and below) for two sizes of plexes. a similar model could be applied to the medium plexes (t1 only, and then t2/faction and below), and well, for majors i would leave them as they are since there really is already a similar system in place (gated/ungated majors). i believe cruisers are being looked at this winter as far as rebalancing goes. so maybe you will see more than just caracals, stabbers, ruppies, and blackbirds for strictly t1 plexes."
"support this"
"i want this"
"try finding some that were made in the last 1-2 years, post web-nerf/warp scram boost."
"2-4 mids for a t3 is really bad imo. that essentially means any armor tanking legion setup has two mids, 6 lows, and 6 highs. i don't know about you, but i figure that's completely broken.take this and drop 2 mid's; what do you have?[legion, iron eagle]dark blood energized adaptive nano membranedark blood energized adaptive nano membranedamage control iidark blood medium armor repairerdark blood heat sinkdark blood heat sink10mn afterburner iimedium capacitor booster ii, cap booster 200medium capacitor booster ii, cap booster 200warp scrambler iiheavy pulse laser ii, dark blood multifrequency mheavy pulse laser ii, dark blood multifrequency mheavy pulse laser ii, dark blood multifrequency mheavy pulse laser ii, dark blood multifrequency mheavy pulse laser ii, dark blood multifrequency mheavy pulse laser ii, dark blood multifrequency mmedium ancillary current router imedium energy metastasis adjuster iimedium energy metastasis adjuster iilegion defensive - nanobot injectorlegion electronics - tactical targeting networklegion engineering - power core multiplierlegion offensive - liquid crystal magnifierslegion propulsion - fuel catalyst"
"yep, pl0x buff le legion :p"
"i have skills to fly both the tengu and the legion. in no situation would i ever fly a legion over a tengu. not even in an armor fleet...the tengu still does better. i support the op's changes. it would bring the legion to a level playing field with the rest of the t3 ships.you hire and pay people for this ccp. why are your subscribers doing it for you?"
"make that -5. see? problem solved."
"then you kill them! i mean ffs don't be such a ****h about it. so an outlaw is sitting outside the undock waiting for the perfect target, apparently according to you all you can do is cry about it and wait for them to go away, such a carebear perspective. i can see how you would assume that suicide ganks would increase, because outlaws can get into high sec and then wait patiently for a good enough risk/reward situation. but, most suicide ganks that allow you to profit can only be done in trade hubs, which usually have tons of people sitting outside, therefore it would be almost impossible to for an outlaw to \"wait for the perfect target\" cause everyone would be shooting him!"
"oh ok so i should have my character deleted because i want to play the game for why it was made? such a carebear."
"you're right. i don't see how suicide ganking would be any easier under your proposal. if anything, an outlaw ganker would be at a disadvantage, because he's shaded bright red on overview .. as soon as a potential target sees that, he's going to be more cautious. also, an outlaw won't last 30 seconds hovering outside the undock at a trade hub, as you said.that's my opinion, as a carebear"
"it is good to see someone gets it."
"pirate ships fitted with weapons should be blasted on sight by concord/faction in .5+. low sec is just factional standing rules."
"i think one way to discourage suicide ganking would be to make it so if you shoot someone in empire without provocation (i.e. they aren't flagged to you) then you can't enter the system without being shot by faction police for like 24-72 hours or somewhere around there. this would make sure outlaws and suicide gankers are given a harsh, but temporary punishment."
"even easier ... contract your goods to an alt, and have the alt assign you a courier mission. your cargo is now in sealed containers, so suicide gankers have no idea if it's worth ganking."
"this.faction navy's are lol \"tankable\" they shouldn't even exist for what they do has dmg or confiscate drugs...and yes any players with -10 ss can perfectly fly any ship from 1.0 to low, it's a matter of knowing how -witch i don't but already followed one friend doing it frequentlythis is an issue since \"high sec\" name's so lol already and another reason to remember low sec players that shooting other players ships in empire has consequences. those consequences are easily erased since not killing the rat bs's escort makes them pop faster, change system pop another rat and miracle your ss raises really fast (a lot faster and every fu<U+FFFD>k!ng pirate knows that).plus, the same \"pirates\" crying about ss are the same yelling at ccp to bring lvl4 missions to low sec while they're not even capable of run some lvl5 for their standing and ss??get out silly kids, go play another game where you can dl hacks and bots and all you have to do is hit \"i win\" button.heu...\"minmatar\" doesn't count right? so this thread is a complete troll no."
"well, that's the problem right there, isn't it? you tried to make high-sec into your personal pvp zone, got slammed down by navy and negative sec status once too many times, and now you want for the negative consequences to be taken away from you.why, here's the deal: highsec wasn't meant for unbridled pvp. sure, it's allowed, but at a cost: you lose security status. you chose to ignore that consequence, until it finally caught up with you. and now you're trying to weasel your way out of it. nobody in their right mind should grand you your wishes, though: if you didn't like the negative consequences, you should have thought of that before. it's what you tell the guy who got ganked in his freigher carrying 3bil worth of stuff, and now you're on the receiving end of the mantra. suck it up, dude.end of story.oh, and pirate tears are the best, really. :) keep 'em rolling! i'm thoroughly enjoying this."
"*sigh*you're not helping. this bs about soothing your righteous ire over pirates by having them limited to lowsec, and preventing people from engaging them in highsec is actually counterproductive. try to imagine what would happen if players could engage pirates, suicide gankers and the like in highsec. what that would mean for the game. how that would balance the way people are affected by pvp. etc...for you, nothing would change, because you would never engage them. for pirates, they would get a good fight in highsec once in awhile or even more often, and they would have the ability to fly into even 1.0 systems uncontested by npc mechanics. for players who wish to fight back against the pirates, they would have highsec as a direct counter to lowsec space, and they could engage pirates with some measure of tactical advantage, as opposed to having to engage always with no tactical advantage, giving that instead to the pirates. they would also be exempt from security status loss and eventual pirate-hood for engaging in such activites.all anti-pirates become indistinguishable from pirates under the current system. you can't tell them apart to look at them, and fact is, after awhile there really is no difference as they eventually all engage in the same activities. if people think you're a pirate, treat you like one, then what's the point in being other than one?"
"so your telling me that if a freighter jumped into you in low sec you wouldnt attempt to kill it? come on now, don't be ignorant."
"really? have you had to rat your sec up from -10 to -1.9 before? i think not. its not as easy as running back and up a ratting pipe killing a bs in every system. i spent almost 3 weeks, in a vagabond, running through one of the best ratting pipes in game to rat my sec up, and this was doing it for 4+ hours a day, more on the weekends. it takes a ton of effort to regain sec once you've lost it, and a carebear like yourself would have absolutely no idea what it takes so stop pretending. we can fly a ship through a 1.0 system but we can't undock from the station with a bought ship, which is the goal here. you clearly have no idea how this mechanic works so stfu about it. and the faction police might be tankable in your 3bill missioning ship but not a pvp ship."
"see? choice and consequences. working as intended. btw, rat in sb, not vagabound.regardless of the amount of rage and whine, ccp will not break their game by removing intentional and working concord mechanics. i would like cookies, which is coming, soon."
"oh, i know it's hard. guess what? it's supposed to be hard! you know the old saying: \"if you can't do the time, don't do the crime.\" simple as that. and it's not like you got banned from highsec after merely 1 offence; nope, it took you many, many repeated offences -- in what you believed to be 'lulzsec' at the time (pardon the pun) -- to finally reach the point of no return... oh wait, you actually can return: -- you just going to have to grind for it. that is 'working as intended' for you at its finest.p.s. still lovin' the pirate tears, btw. :)"
"dear god how did it take you 3 weeks to fix your sec? a> highs fitted , cyno, cloak, neut, probe launcher, 2x dual 180'sb> only killed frigates (you know to not scare the spawns off)c> died 9 times a night every night to the same gatecampd> spent the first 60 hours of the 85+ you claimed it took you shooting a \"veldspar\" rat?and yes it is as easy as running up and down a pipe killing a bs in every system."
"you wanted to be a pirate. you reap the consequences. not supported...in fact i say we allow any player to attack any other player with any kind of pirate standing at all. not just the ones with the worst standing that the npc's attack anyway. piracy should not be easy."
"so now that i know what the carebears' opinions are...goose99, there is no better ship for ratting up sec than a vaga; its fast, tons of dps, tanks the rats with ease."
"so what is the consequences of being a hi-sec carebear leach? this will end well. nor should leaching isk in hi-sec."
"you get ganked in your freighter or other shiny ship, and concord, to add insult to injury, picks up the tab for the ships lost by the pirates. how is that for leaching?"
"sounds like acceptable game play to me."
"that statement makes no sense, nobody pirates in hi sec space... unless you count wars or something.everything done in high sec is pvp at some point.well, pvping in high sec never leads to loss of concord standing...speaking for myself, that isn't the case. but i can't speak for anyone else.which negative consequences are you referring to?well, any freighter traveling through low sec unescorted deserves to be attacked.just so you know, for the nth time, concord already ignores outlaws in high sec.and your point is [still] invalid anyway since concord didn't exist originally in eve... anywhere.not even the 'crying pirates' are asking to be released from the consequences of low concord standing.why you don't think the victims should have another way to get their revenge is a little beyond me tbh. i mean, who wouldn't show up to an outlaw gank in high sec? even other outlaws would jump in on it.i smell more carebear tears actually, which even sweeter because they don't even understand what is being put forward.of course.as long as they have a correspondingly high sec status, why not? antipirate players should be getting nice standings boosts for their work. and this would be a buff to them.piracy isn't, but piracy is dead for the most part."
"so wait...high sec is for care bears. they live there, doing fluffy stuff, getting positive sec status.low/null is for pirates. they live there, doing pewpew stuff, getting negative sec status.sometimes pirates make the mistake of getting too low of sec status, in which case they're officially stamped outlaws. at which point, everyone is free to shoot them, player and npc alike, because they are evil bad guys.and you're upset that you can't play in care bear land while still being a bad guy in your free time?"
"gosh, i think i might have to start pointing out each individual fallacy in all of your arguments against this. this thread is not about why pirates are bad and why they deserve to have a \"less fun\" game experience than everybody else, this is about balancing the field for all players. its not a whine fest as to why i can't go into high sec, i really don't care too much tbh, i have alts that get me what i need and other than that i have no desire to go to high sec, its just one small thing that would enhance the playing experience for everyone imo. val'dore makes an excellent point; carebears and high sec players really have no way of getting revenge from pirates other than to go to low sec, and god help you if you do that ;). this would even the field for everyone and add some much needed excitement to the game imo."
"agree!i think it would be fun if someone had 'real human' players that they can attack in hs without concord getting involved.one thing i think i would add to your suggestion...lets say you have the low sec and come to high sec and i shoot at you.only you should be able to shoot back - not your corp mates.i like the idea. make it so ccp!"
"i definitely agree, not allowing corp mates to aggress would discourage outlaw fleets in high sec. (supporting my own thread, finally =p)"
"tl;dr: supercarriers have ruined 0.0 warfare. there is no paper rock scissors to a fleet of nyxs. whoever shows up in the most nyxs wins.it used to be that, before fighter bombers came out in january 2010, whoever had the better fleet composition with battleships/hacs/logis/command ships would win the fight with better tactics unless it was a lag fest.. but 400 vs 400 man lag fests weren't the gross majority of battles so what did that really matter. hello all, long time lurker but decided that something needs to be said. it's probably been said quite often but this really needs attention. i used to live in the now dead northern coalition (here comes the haters). let's not get side tracked with all the rmt throw outs and bull**** but let's address the real problem. the last time i actually had fun fighting in sov defending/taking fights was back when it and atlas were pushing the nc. fleets consisted of dreads/battleships/ahacs and the now dead except for bridging fleets, titan. i knew nc lost the last big war when i saw 50+ nyx's show up to reinforce stations/ihubs in 2-3 minutes. i ended up moving all my ships out around that time and still fleeted up hoping for something other then a nyx stand down. the response to this sort of fleet is \"well you can always show up in 50+ nyx's\" but that isn't really an option for almost all players. if you wanted 0.0 to be accessible to small alliances and create conflict you certainly went the wrong way to do so. this makes it so small alliances can't even compete unless they get a whole bunch of super carriers. sov defense/taking is now relegated to whoever fields the most super carriers wins. that's the bottom line. there is no more \"our scouts say they have 40 abaddons with 5 guardians so we'll show up in ahacs\" . it's now \"20 nyx's, can't do ****\".i just want to see an alliance of 20 mill sp players in battleships able to actually have a decent chance at holding some space with tactical skill.about the poster: i didn't want to post my main to avoid alliance drama. i hate that ****.. i've been playing eve since 2008 religiously and started in 2006 but part time (training character, in high sec while playing wow. i'm ashamed of that). i like playing eve since it's not catering to the pussies. i started played mmo's in 1997 with ultima online, used to run around napa valley server murdering people and taking their things. so naturally, eve is a game i like. i fell in love with 0.0 due to how the rules of eve work.. but now i can't stand it due to the sov mechanics. logging on to ctas where you can't even fight the guys isn't fun at all."
"agreed. furthermore, the ccp's supercarrier fetish feeds right into the botters wheelhouse. 16 bil isk isn't generally available to the pvper who rats to replace his zealot, it's the uber alliances with great tracts of insulated space that are able to create a generally bot safe environment.eve has essentially degraded to supercarriers online- if you fly anything smaller than a nyx, you're just a cyno *****."
"if you can't beat the enemy head on, you use your brain and exploit any mistake made by them. if they split up, bridge on one of the groups, kill it and get out before the rest can get there. if they don't, bomb them or try to separate them with smart use of drag bubbles...or if you prefer, watch for the hostiles making a mistake with a/a few supers and kill it while the rest are bubbled/out of cap/don't have a cyno to get to the tackled super with.last time in venal, we didn't have the backup we do now and still managed to win quite often despite being outnumbered in both supers and actual pilots. the problem though is that it's pretty risk free to deploy a supercap fleet. if messing up and getting tackled in a fight you're loosing meant that every super you couldn't clear tackle from would actually die, you'd have to put actual thought into it to decide if it's worth the risk, and there would be way more of them dying."
"the whole idea of this whine is that you need to have supers to kill supers. those who don't won't be able to kill supers, and thus won't have them."
"while i agree this is how you slowly dwindle your opponent down but it does not work unless you don't hold sov. you being part of pl which doesn't really hold space you can argue that point quite validly. i used to love fighting you guys. you would show up with 60 guys and take on 150 due to sheer tactics and well disciplined pilots. this is something i always wished i was apart of. yet when you guys started fielding 50+ supercarriers with 60 t3's due to a couple hundred billion pay outs it was a no contest fight, infact.. no one even showed up to fight you from that point on. supercarriers are the new battleship/dread/carrier all rolled into one and it's destroying the game. destroying it.so in closing, pl is still having fun."
"why can't my arazu scram as nearly as far (you would think 10% less range like web2 vs scram2) as a rapier webs? falcon: ecm = instant jam on frigs.arazu: 20% range/level for scrams (baseline scram = 9 km) - 18 km l5curse: 40% range/level for neuts (baseline neut = (12.6 km for medium neuts) 38km l5 rapier: 60% range/level for webs (baseline web = 10 km) - 40km l5 proposal: increase arazu warp scram bonus to be on same order as rapier web bonus or at least as far as curse nuets."
"ecm needs to be removed from the game or an effective counter measure needs to be created. you can say eccm's are a counter measure but they are not, a falcon will still perma jam you, even with 70+ sensor strength. the fact is every other ewar mod in the game does not totally shut you down, for instance; sensor damps screw up your targeting range and resolution, however you can still target up close and it just may take a bit longer to lock something. tracking disruptors suck but if you know how to fly your ship right, you can counter their effect fairly easily, and drones are still usable. ecm on the other hand is not the same; drones will only attack if they are out before you get jammed and nothing else has aggressed you, almost everything on a ship offensive wise needs a target lock to be effective, and some defensive mods like nos need a target lock as well. ecm totally shuts out your ship's ability to function and it is essentially a death certificate when a falcon lands on the field. eccm either needs to be boosted to the point where a falon's jam chance is less than 10% on racials when you have an eccm fitted, or it needs to be completely removed from the game."
"there are already effective counter-measures to falcons - eccm, remote sensor damps, neuts, or simply bringing your own ecm"
"falcons are fine, the second the lose lock on a single target, they are dead, end of, they are ******edly papper thin, an alpha from a frig could take those things out."
"no they are not, only in at;s where eveyone brings equal fleetsever flown a falcon? u declaok and u are insat primairy. not ideal ships to bring u end up warping off more or dieing more than jamming. at is not representice for fleet fights, stop crying start trying and than u see what i mean."
"many of us explorers and have old (really old) bookmarks that just aren't relevant anymore because they point to old wormholes or complexes that despawned 5 months ago. i propose to simply allow an (optional) expiration period for bookmarks. in the bookmark creation window, allow us to put in how many days the bookmarks remains. 1 days is good enough for most wormhole, a few days might be good enough for other exploration stuff. then, during downtime, cleanup all old bookmarks. if keeping track of bookmarks in real time costs a huge performance hit, the days can be approximate. so if you bookmarked something 5 hours before downtime for 1 day, it would still be there until downtime the next day (so 1 day + 5 hours), this is so the server isn't continuously keeping track of everything and can do mass deletions during downtime maintenance, while still keeping everyones bookmarks clean and fresh. =d"
"so long as it's an optional expiration, turned off by default ... otherwise it's going to inconvenience pilots who use bms for safespots, tactical spots, etc."
"of course. added to main topicalso, supporting my own idea"
"imo, implementing this change is gambling wwwaaaaaayyyyyy too much to fix a minor inconvenience.... i have several thousand bookmarks for gates and stations all over nullsec. it would take several hours to copy them, let alone the time i took to make them. i don't want to risk them expiring, or ccp deleting them so you can save 5 minutes a month deleting the bookmarks you no longer want.... if it takes you longer than this, then you need to learn to organize your bookmarks better. use a naming convention and learn to sort by name, region, date, etc..... i just don't see why we should bother with an expiration on our bm's.... the time your saving is sooo small that the aggregate time saved by this would be dwarfed by the lost time if only one person like me loses their bookmark collection. the only time i want one of my bookmarks deleted, is when i'm actively choosing the bm's to delete. p.s. changing bookmarks so they can be group copied (in a timely fashion) would be of much greater benefit for this game...."
"self support + bump. sry"
"i suspect the jita market node would explode. if these sorts of things were designed alot better then i suspect they are this wouldn't be a problem, however market improvements and a lessening of the regional limitations can only be a good thing imo. i've always thought it a bit embarrassing just how many features of eve, such as prices in other regions, are only accessible from outside it."
"im going to dissagree on the grounds that this allows the newer future industrialists and marketeers find areas with low market activity and sell there goods for a much higher price to those lazy sods that cant be assed to go a few systems over to check market prices or even ask there friends in other regions so they can get there stuff,"
"tour<U+FFFD>na<U+FFFD>mentnoun /'trnmnt/  /'to<U+035D>or-/ tournaments, plural(in a sport or game) a series of contests between a number of competitors, who compete for an overall prize\"who compete for an overall prize\"\"compete\"why even bother hosting this \"tournament\" if such unsportsmanlike behavior is tolerated and rewarded?scouting the enemy? that is fine, indeed i encourage it.but making the experience everything but enjoyable for us? ccp shouldn't bother calling it a tournament until their are clear tournament level regulations - and there isn't a single good tournament i know of that tolerates this kind of buzzkill."
"you seem to think you're entitled to a \"~gewd fight~\" at the end of the day.however, this is eve. you are entitled to nothing in this game. and that includes the alliance tournament."
"\"compete\"the mere existence of your favorite game is not powerful enough to alter the definition of a word."
"making the assumption that everyone reading this knows what your gnashing your teeth over is your first mistake."
"do not derail. also - the counterpoint to your own statement would be that you believe a collective understanding of a topic is a perquisite to being relevant. essentially going against logic and 2000+ years of philosophy. you can disagree as i am sure some will but no derailing please."
"not supported. you can't make rules about throwing fights. people will just make it less obvious.if ccp wants to 'punish' hydra/outbreak they should hold a lottery (1 ticket per account) awarding 1000 (500 each) of the alliance tournament ix prize hulls (or 1-run bpcs). that would also be within the rules and would discourage this sort of behavior in the future.(i'm not saying they should do this, the whole thing was lame/stupid but not that big a deal imo. but ymmv.)"
"throwing fights isn't uncommon and is completely allowed.welcome to eve, get over it."
"thought internet space ships was serious business."
"i never said the topic wasn't relevant, however being as this was posted in the assembly hall and not general discussion, i assumed, perhaps mistakenly, they were looking for support of the topic at hand. most people, at least those who aren't sheep, like to have some understanding of what they're supporting before they tick the little \"yes\" box."
"completely allowed in what other sporting event, exactly? boxing? it's usually considered highly illegal. and for good reasons.oh, and it's disgusting to witness, and a let-down to everyone who showed up to watch.supported. +1"
"4/10not bad."
"does this look like boxing to you? the alliance tournament is more for the alliances then it is for the spectators. all spying, backstabing, looting, trickery, bribery, and conspiring is completely allowed, just as it is within eve. it's a minor miracle griefing via intentional pod killing is prohibited.just what part of eve led you to believe an eve tournament would include sportsmanship and rules of conduct? an alliance can just as easily, and legally, field 10 tech 1 frigates fitted with only smartbombs as they can decide to shoot themselves and/or self-destruct for all of the complete lack of difference that it makes.welcome to eve, get over it."
"i don't know about everybody else, but i pretty much know when someone is going to try to gank me. it's about as obvious as bacon."
"exactly, especially since in low-sec, alot of people dont even try to be subtle, iw as going from amarr to a couple low-sec systems to deliever items a friendly corp wanted, second i got into mai, saw this abaddon, thought nothing of it, warped to next gate lo and behold once i reach jump range, i see this same abbadon warp into right behind, kept following for about 4 systems, at taht point i decided i was bored of him and called the corp-buds i was delivering to. next agte he went through he targeted me, and i had about 15 buddies, 3 in logistics to rep me, completely annihilate the bugger. so yeah, ganking and stalking/hunting in low-sec is a pretty obvious thing, even more so in high sec."
"fixed 4u"
"no, absolutely not - no!no"
"no."
"no. adverb1. a negative used to express dissent, denial, or refusal, as in response to a question or request.this because you strike me as someone hard of thinking."
"no"
"would have supported this, but i'm colourblind to that shade of red and so can't read it.what a shame."
"no!"
"pvp should cost aurum"
"ccp will never consider balance a top priority.i say yes to giving them more money so they can release wod ahead of schedule and we can all get of this sinking ship."
"if only there were a way to spend aurum to stop you posting."
"assuredly not supported.your \"just a bit of wiggle room for rigs\" might just give you the winning edge. if not, then there's no point in asking for it; if so, then obviously no.seriously, folks, this will be the beginning of the end. once rm starts to interfere with training time and/or fitting options, eve will die soon thereafter. anything cosmetic is fine; anything else is not."
"aurum for forum bans.i could get behind that proposal.then we could have aurum for ending bans early too.you know at this rate, we won't even need a game to spend our mt money with ccp."
"except, ere long, ccp will require you to buy an annual $99 license to make a proposal."
"yes! forum bans for arrogant pricks who post in dark red text that color blind people can't see or read."
"pilots are now unable to see the source of a broadcast. this is a source of some difficulty and can hopefully be corrected."
"so, so sad."
"because in the old days when supercaps were overpowered and could not be tackled, people would sit on a station undock in a titan with a rack of officer smartbombs in a bubble. guess what happened to everyone who undocked.these days of course we dont need to worry about such broken ships."
"i demand the right to smart bomb jita."
"i would support smart bombs on whs. they're just a cosmic event in space.however, setting them off within reach of the station or gates is asking for trouble. like drawing aggro from the owners, kind of trouble.so i guess if you're willing to get shot at by the local navy because you wanted to bomb the undock, that might be funny to watch."
"this^i wasn't talking about restricting anything. if you feel like \"convincing\" a bs scale mwd onto your interceptor, go for it!all i'm saying is, when you search the market for a small beam laser for your frigate, what comes up is medium beam laser i.and when you see something linked in a contract for instance, you don't have the market categories staring you in the face telling you what scale it's typically meant for.so again, not talking about restricting anything. just talking about making a medium beam laser, and a medium armor repairer, both cruiser scale."
"i support this idea"
"no point to bring this back, this was only free intel for pirates and for those who complain about this because u wanna know what standing got your corp members i would say: if u cant trust them so is no pont to act like police maybe u shouldnt stand in same corp (not nice to spy your corp members)"
"eve needs to use the space it has better. more nullsec will just mean more nullsec with all the same issues it has now.travel mechanics, combat mechanics - this stuff is eight, nine years old. slapping band-aides of more space, or moving resources around doesn't really fix anything."
"w-space wut?"
"more worthless systems that will just sit there completely empty, since the changes to anomalies and other mechanics mean they aren't even worth holding anymore?i'm all for expanding the eve universe, but perhaps ccp need to decide what to do with the hundreds of systems that are now effectively pointless, before they add more content that is only going to serve to fill out the number of jumps people have to take to get anywhere."
"bump! ;d"
"i googled it up.what the **** guys you got serious problemsbut yes for nude exotic dancers. without ****s, of course."
"but what are they actually doing ? they've made no meaningful communication with the wider player base, shockingly less than we are accustomed to from even ccp.all the recent initiatives to make ccp rethink stuff has been grass roots on the forums by rank and file players, api, micro transaction, etc.so aside from what they've been saying secretly in their alliance channels, which mainly seems to be bragging about how good the lobsters and night clubs are.what are they good for?"
"the csm-6 members are enforcing a new concept on how to execute their council of stellar management and doing so it can be said that their ways are in all fairness controversial......but they have the right to do so!we can't judge on their work and efforts yet and until then it's just to sit and wait./extreme, csm-2"
"csm6's internal communication methods are more organized than any iteration of the csm before it. post-summit the csm is always knee-deep in minute-work. sorting, filing and checking the summit minutes and prepping them for release to the public. given the number of things we covered and the depth at which we covered them, the minutes are taking a little longer than expected, so we're sorry about that. the csm are not impossible to reach. hell, if you mail me in-game i'll respond to you. if anyone mails me in-game i'll respond to them. a lot of people are standing around going 'why isnt the csm communicating with us?' and we're standing here going: hey! hey! we're right here! hello? can you hear us? hello~~?i don't know what you mean by this. ok, well, i don't know of any instances where we've basically sat in our 'secret alliance channels' and patted eachother on the back about how we wined and dined on ccp's dollar. but i'm not going to sit here and tell you that iceland wasn't cool. i know a lot of people on this board seem to literally hate fun but i'm going to be a rebel and strike out against non-fun-havers and have fun whenever possible. so this is a good question.we've done spotlights, and fireside chats. this lets the players listen to us in a semi-formal setting and we take questions.we've propped up time dilation which is now going to become a feature in the game.we've gotten a dedicated ship balancer (ccp tallest) assigned to the game, something eve has never had. despite what you might have heard the first summit of csm6 was extremely productive."
"still shouldnt take 2+ months to get notes out though should it?"
"there's a lot of notes, and both the csm and ccp have been busy. the production of the summit minutes is not just a csm task, ccp also has to review and sign off on the minutes. don't worry, we should have them out soon. we're more or less done with the drafts and ccp is checking them now."
"srsly??! you certainly don't want all the players to send you eve-mails asking the same questions over and over agin, do you?you guys were elected to represent us. you are the one with information now. so i really hope the minutes will be released really soon - and that they'll be worth waiting..."
"fuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuck this idea. you want to legalize macro mining? you know they make people in chinese prisons do most of this ****?i will not be privy to this idea if only on those grounds alone."
"actually the chinese use prisoners because the bots keep getting caught by ccp. if macro mining was legal then china could just run a bunch of bots, thus giving the prisoners enough free time to go frolic in nature... brilliant!"
"well, after the nda-censorsh....ehmm..nda-filter was applied on the minutes-scripts nothing interessting was left to be published.."
"with the exception of one session (being done by ccp diagoras), all first drafts have been completed and sent to ccp for review. we have not received any response as of yet, though this may be due to them being a wee bit busy with incarna."
"curious. how long did it take from the last day of meetings in iceland till the csm sent their version of the notes to ccp? i am looking forward to see the notes."
"and an update to the update, ccp did their first nda pass, now we need to go back and forth on editing for style, plus we still need that last session, but ccp xhagen is going to write those up shortly. the notes will probably be out next week, since ccp will be busy with incarna deployment this week."
"it's nice to be kept up to date on your progress as i'm really looking forward to reading the finished report"
"well, there are delegates like me, who don't really have a bloc vote, who do have a vested interest in sucking up."
"its working"
"this shows what a waste this csm is. you can not represent the players views on issues that the players have never even heard of.why don't you spend the time talking about issues the players do know about and have given their views on? not only would you be actually representing players views but we could actually hear from you because it wouldn't all be blocked by nda."
"this just about sums it all up."
"delete please...sorry."
"i approve of this necromancy. quality rage thread that looks even better now that the goons have dastardly stolen the csm."
"i was the one that mentioned that in the event of a name changer every person who has that character on their contact list should receive a evemail stating that so and so character has changed their name to such and such. also for all of you that cry about name changes saying that you can escape a bad rep and yada yada, open your eyes and realize people can just buy totally new characters and sell their bad rep characters at no loss of isk if your smart and you would never know. this happens all the time. with name changes they will still have that good or bad rep and all would know about it.also with ccp trying to turn eve into a modern wow with walking on station + other things that will follow. giving characters a actual identity it is only fitting that we get the chance to change our names to something we like rather than a name that really meant nothing back when a name was really just an id.ccp is all about micro transactions with plex and now that new store for your characters and lets not forget character transfers so not to allow something like this is just silly. ccp says characters are our identity/reputation and yet we can just trade that and that's ok but we can't change our names.... logic just went bye bye."
"i totally agree, yes i have an 08 cos some one beat me to the name, but i still like it. dude if your going to come up with a name like that childsupport stuff..... you picked it dude, either live with that rep or get a new toon."
"once again your logic is flawed, if your character has an identity and your not allowed to change your identity says ccp then why can we just trade that identity to anyone and not have to keep your reputation. people infiltrate corps and alliances this way but your saying that's ok cuz its just a trade and no one knew it was a traded character but we can't have name changes cuz everyone would know about it.... riiight...."
"so everyone whose name begins with the letter a or z will change their names..its a pain being top of the list and first primary in combat!! change a name but the new name must start with the first letter of the old name.."
"i support this also. i just want to change my bloodline atleast. i am willing to pay with money, isk, or plex. but i do not want to pay with another five years to train a new me."
"posted with wrong character."
"sign"
"+1i support this change so we can change our race and bloodline for set ammount of aurum to pay, most of us have chars from before the new character creator was added and we are stuck with character models we dont like and want to change them."
"yes!"
"long as it is a one off."
"sure"
"still showing support."
"revert this quasi-feature to the state it was before. wtf? we weren't asking for this. today, i'm once again in the situation, that i see a nice fit linked, which i'd like to save, and i can't, because i already have 50 of them. so instead of saving and moving on, i need to search through my saved fittings to see what i can delete to make room for the new fit. also, i'm playing from the same pc for years and i have absolutely no interest in saving my fittings to the server. stop this silliness and give us local storage back."
"/signedi've hated this since the moment it was introduced."
"yes, visit my thread here for more support, i'll link back here."
"bump, this should have been fixed by now... still waiting for a dev response in the ask a dev thread."
"i am already dreading the long waiting times i will have undocking and redocking everytime i just want to do something as simple as repair...."
"strongly supported. just give us the hangar and add a new button next to \"undock\" - make it \"unpod\" and upon clicking it loads cq.i really don't get why my pilot would see the need to leave his pod and get dressed everytime he docks just to reship or load/unload cargo all rp aside, the hangar view is the most practical for your typical everyday spaceship action needs, and there is no good reason to remove it."
"right-click > leave podright next to the leave ship item.it's not that hard, for ****'s sake."
"+1 to the option. i don't want to have to **** around with 30 second load times when i want to switch a ship out quickly.why this is being forced, i don't know, because it's certainly a downgrade on what we have currently."
"sadly you've made 2 errors.1. the disable option is not disable, it's have a nice brown wall paper. it should have been disable, bring back old hanger (for which the models still exist)2. resource hog. making my pc use more juice while afk in station than the most intense fleet fight is bad. my alt sped much of it's time afk in station, increasing my power bill by a factor of 4/5 is just not viable for me - for laptops it's simply not possible. this complete oversight will cost you subs (before plex increase is factored in).3. who likes brown wall paper? i mean of all the colours a designer could choose, brown?"
"supported. keep wis optional and bring back spinning in hanger."
"game play changes all the time, in eve and every other mmo. like the recent change to give bpc's a different icon than bpo's .. nobody was against that. community reaction depends on how each player is affected. the proposed change here is that war dec's against the same target corp get more and more expensive as time goes on. if you're a 'high sec piracy' corp, all it means is you find a different target, one that has not been at war as long. if you're a 'high sec industrial' corp, it means you get a break from war every once in a while. why oppose that?"
"this proposal does remove certain aspects of the sandbox elements to this game.to the original poster, i'd recommend you re-visit your original proposal. after all, this would ultimately negatively affect a certain portion of players in eve, namely roleplayers.take pie inc. for example, one of the oldest pod pilot corporations in eve still existence today. they are hardline armarrians by nature, and are obviously at odds with the republic and the federation. they also are in perpetual service to the empire, and prior to their establishing of cva they constantly had on-going war-decs against pirate organizations within empire space (whether they rp'ed or not). how can an rp organization (and many others, like 1pg, kotmc, dia, core, clrgy, gns, u'k, em, eg, kg... the list goes on) legitimately operate wars which are in character for them against hostile entities who may not necessarily entertain a mutual declaration? until this is taken into consider, i would recommend leaving things are they are in the sandbox, unless you can think of a creative way to accomodate corporate freedom in war declarations."
"this is a genuine reason to rethink my proposal, that i had not previously considered. i don't have a good answer at the moment but will certainly give it some thought.edit: on further thought, the unwilling targets of rp wars are really no different than any other unwilling target. it may be in character for a corp such as pie to desire endless war against their rp enemies, but that doesn't mean concord would necessarily sanction it."
"good, if everyone can't have easy infinite isk, no one should."
"a catergory provides you with the information you need immediately to get to safety and further identify them. how about a scenario to help clarify:oh hey, hes red, he must not want to prance in a field and hold hands. ill go dock up and then concern myself with who he is as opposed to i know this guy, i know this guy, i know this -- omfg im being shot at because im reading everyones uniquely identifiable name! how many names do you have then? not enough to blah, blah, blah i can also say name changing has a big legitimate use too. that would be an assumption. although, someone already suggested a harsh solution to that along the lines of name changes should not transfer in the event of a character transfer (reverting to the first name) and/or no character having been transferred will ever be allowed a name change. personally i dont like it.what is that name sticking to? the reputaion of a completely different person! a nefarious person buys a skilled-up lamb of a character and wreaks havoc. meta game, immersion shattering, no regulation, no paper trail, no preservation of consequence or reputation."
"qouted for truth. thanks for pointing out another 'elephant'"
"supported."
"nice idea"
"this, or tsubutai's idea in post 4, would be a major improvements to plexing pvp. or maybe the gates to the fw plexes, for a concord-sanctioned war, have special restrictions allowing no pirate hulls. granted, that's an immersion solution to a gameplay issue which would result in pirates flying less pirate hulls, thus breaking immersion. :)anything to break up pirate frigs dominating minor plexes is fine by me. but i do think navy frigates, who aren't that overpowered, versus destroyers would be interesting."
"this idea as updated to just exclude the pirate faction and tuskers idea would both be an improvement."
"support"
"/signed, *****'s that have neutral rr should be banished to the test server."
"support"
"supported."
"need more clones first.."
"fully supported!"
"+1, broken feature otherwise."
"1.0"
"makes sense."
"this. +1"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"bump for post patch visibility."
"first off, for those who run missions with others it's not pointless in any way, shape or form.second, unless you can elaborate on how it would make things worse, your objection is mere negativity and objection for it's own sake to only be contrary, making it just as pointless as you believe this proposed change to be."
"+1 don't see why not."
"wait stop the press proteus could use a change ''or pretty much all gellente ships for that matter'' so its more effective in missions, and not just good for pvp. as it is now its just for pvp legion is fine the way it is.wait never mind buff the legion. in fact i support this change, and should be done as soon as possible. '' cant wait for all the crys to get the legion changed back xd after it gets super nerfed''"
"1.0"
"come to amarr, you'll see plenty of people flying legions... but usually only by necessity. pie inc, one of new eden's oldest pod pilot created corporations flys amarr only hulls. beautiful sight when organizations like them take to the heavens in a \"golden fleet\". however, the fact that some people actually do fly legions is moot, because even those of us who fly legions on a regular basis would agree and support this. i for one do."
"looks like it didn't go through. from the patch notes:edit nevermind, wrong ship"
"it is wrong for a ship to sit cloaked and probe down other ships, there needs to be a \"balance\" for this. my solution is that no ship that has launched combat probes can cloak up until those probes are completly recovered. this way pvp'ers can't just probe someone out with no risk of losing a ship. it's bad enough that it's extremely easy to probe someone out. also combat probes should be target-able so that you can shoot them."
"1. you should be looking for combat probes in your d-scan instead of raging 2. take a covert ops to a safespot and point it towards another ss while running your ab and 3-4 racial eccm mods even with the new patch its going to be nigh on unprobable more so if you use some sig radius implants"
"1. no ****.2. so what? at least the bastard is uncloaked and i have a very small chance of probing him down.i want to be able to target, and attack his probes if i come across them too."
"reduce seige and triage timer to 60 seconds and reduce strong used by a factor of 10.dreads and carriers have long been bumped from the top of the food chain where their past supremacy required the ten minute timer to balance them. now that a hot drop of only 5 supper carriers can kill a well fitted carrier in about 30 seconds there really is no reason to keep the old 10 minute timers...a lot has changed since there imposition."
"while i agree that a 10m siege cycle is out of place in the current scheme of things, i think 60 seconds is too short.... there's almost no drawback to siege then. remember, it takes a hotdrop 30s to load grid! 5 minutes is a reasonable siege cycle..."
"faire enough, but the last hot drop i was in saw a well fitted carrier pop within about 45 to 50 secs from the time the cyno was lit. it did not take the supers 30 secs to load grid i would say drop the timer to 60 secs but max 120 secs. there realy is no need for such a long timer or any timer at all, dreads and carriers are much weeker than they were when they first came out."
"simply put, the tengu offensive - magnetic infusion basin, or the so-called \"railgun tengu\" sub, is a complete joke. not only because its main weapon system is underpowered and obsolete, but also because it does not even have the right bonuses to make it semi-functional.before going further, i would like to note that most useful offensive subsystem have bonuses that are worth at least four regular ship bonuses(5% damage, 10% range, 7.5% tracking, 5% rof, etc), fitting bonuses, or augmentations that worth as much as ship bonuses, such as a full compliment of light drones. for example:=> accelerated ejection bay: 5% kinetic damage(1), 10% range(1), 7.5% rof(2), +40 cpu=> liquid crystal magnifier: 10% laser turret damage(2), 10% range(1), 10% laser turret capacitor(1)=> projectile scoping array: 7.5% projectile turret rof(2), 10% falloff(1), full compliment of light drones(1)=> turret concurrence registry: 10% projectile turret damage(2), 10% range(1), 7.5% tracking(1)=> hybrid propulsion armature: 10% hybrid turret damage(2), 10% falloff(1), full compliment of medium drones(1)... and so forth.then, let's have a quick run down of the bonuses of the subsystem:=> 5% bonus to medium hybrid turret damage per level. (1)=> 20% bonus to medium hybrid turret optimal range per level. (2)=> +365 base powergrid, + 450 base capacitor. (1?)as you can see, the fitting bonus for the magnetic infusion basin is assigned as a ship bonus, thus reducing the number of actual ship bonuses by one. although it may look as if it's balanced out, it is not, because the fitting bonuses simply fill the hole of the deliberately crippled engineering subsystems (augmented capacitor reservoir, power core multiplier) that are the only thing preventing the \"missile tengu\" from being even more overpowered than it currently is. therefore, the fitting bonus must not occupy a ship bonus, and another ship bonus must be in place to get this subsystem back in line.therefore, i propose to increase the bonus of the magnetic infusion basin as the following:=> 10% bonus to medium hybrid turret damage per level. (2)=> 20% bonus to medium hybrid turret optimal range per level. (2)=> +475 base power, + 450 base capacitor. (taken for granted)at least the changes will allow the \"rail tengu\" to fit 6 250mm turrets, mwd and one lse with nearly maxed out skills, and increase the dps with that setup from 210 to 250 with spike. not much, but a step in the right direction.there are other subsystems that are similarly lacking the full number of bonuses or simply underpowered, but it will take another thread to explain the reasons and justifications for changes so i'll cut it short.tl;dr: buff magnetic infusion basin. increase damage to 10% and base power bonus to 475. ccp has to work on t3 ship balance."
"i have two things to say:to prevent the highsec ganking, we should perma-jam the pirates. this will prevent hulks, mission ships, etc from being ganked. if you want to buy ships i have no problem with that. be my guest. however, the second the pirate gets agressed by someone else the jam goes away and the pirate can defend themselves. carebears are safe, pirates can buy ships.the next thing, to make things fair to both sides, have logi assisting someone in one of these fights be considered agression. that way there will be no other logi ships assiting the pirates, or the pirate hunters, risk-free."
"considering that i do not know much about how difficult it would be to implement such a mechanic, i have a feeling that perma jamming only outlaws and no one else would be quite the task. also, people can't rep outlaw's already, you receive gcc and get concorded."
"i think there are some minor details that would need to be worked out (e.g., preventing outlaws from basing out of high sec to make repeated suicide ganking attempts difficult), but the overall effect would be increased pvp.supported"
"i support this. it would still be very risky as a pirate to go into high sec if this were to happen, but at least it would give us the option to move around a bit more freely. even going a few jumps through highsec to get to another lowsec area is currently a pain in anything bigger than a cruiser. this way pirates have a bit more options to move around, and those carebears and anti-pirates out there get the option of blobbing lonely reds passing through highsec in big ships. what's not to like?"
"supportedand to any ultra-bears wanting to jump up and explain how this is a bad idea, please only do so after completely understanding both how the system works now and the proposed changes. my iq can only take so many hits per day and i've read this entire thread."
"not all bears think alike. my carebear self thinks the idea is great ... kos pirates flying around high sec who i can shoot, but who can't shoot me (except as a suicide gank). best of all .. the more of them in high sec, the fewer in low camping the gates i want to jump through"
"you make a choice that has consequences, you assume them.you need 30months to get your ss back? -it's your problem, you should think about consequences before act.you want to buy ships in high sec when you have -10ss? -deal with people of pick an alt.working has intended and has no valuable reason to be changed.moar tears please, my cup is empty."
"no, you wrecked your sec status, live with it. this is part of being a pirate. now go be a pirate, not a carebear."
"i don't think most outlaws want to get away from the consequences of being one. sure it can be annoying to get chased by faction navies everytime you enter a 0.5+ system, but it isn't much of a consequence.or lose it to another player with this change?how would faction navies not hunting down players with low concord standing make them carebears?does it really make sense to be +7.9 with minmatar republic and yet still be hunted down by minmatar high commanders just because your concord standing is -5.0? no, not really."
"just to clarify, aggression mechanics would not change for players. if you aggress me, an outlaw, in high sec then i can retaliate, but me and only me, not my corp."
"yup, that's how it works. it still gives the high sec player an advantage in high sec, since he can decide whether to start a fight or not. the low sec player can't start a fight, since he'll get concorded. that's plenty of disadvantage for an outlaw in low sec, even without npc police, which is why i find your proposal fair."
"long range minmatar projectiles (artillery) received a massive boost in alpha, but no corresponding decrease in dps. this, along with the fact that projectiles use no cap and have selectable damage have made railguns obsolete since nearly every other stat is on par with rails. example: 720mm artillery has 2.9 times the alpha of 250mm railguns but only 1% less dps. what??!!! since their alpha is so much greater than any other long range turret, artillery dps should be correspondingly nerfed. these should be one shot weapons systems designed to rip through active tanks. they should not perform equally well at grinding through large buffer tanks."
"i too support nerfing other random things down to the crappiness of railguns, the worst weapons in the game."
"artillery would still maintain their role of pure alpha machines."
"/facepalm"
"you are an idiot, and there will be a fix for hybrids coming up in the future i believe, not sure when."
"um, you have destroyed your own argument by stating that 720mm artillery does 2.9 times the alpha of 250mm railguns but only 1% less dps. that's balanced, mate as dps is nearly the same but alpha is the difference between the pair.by the way, love the fact your whining about the minnie boost that only just makes their dps fractionally above railguns. that means for yonks their dps was less than yours. the issue is not with railguns if dps is marginal. the real issue is that now that scrams shut down mwd's, blaster boats die in a fire before they can reach their target. that is what happened time and again in real pvp and the alliance jokeument."
"very minor 1% less dps does not compare to a massive factor of 2.9 increase in alpha."
"first and last bump. if nobody else wants this that's cool."
"i don't know what i think about this.... its an interesting idea... but its still a little to much coding for not much gain. people will still play the .01 isk war so they can sell all their stuff first. besides, i think your suggestion would create a situation where the major suppliers of materials could form an opec of sorts, and i don't think that would be beneficial to the game."
"this is pure greediness! skirt for 1 plex = 34usd. disgusting."
"they belong in belts not on gates, very annoying if your camping, waiting with roam on gate whatever"
"no. they serve a good purpose."
"theyre there to scare trolls awai"
"you could try shooting them until they explode. it would give you something to do while waiting for your next pvp capable opponent helpless victim."
"or add video blog that tells exacly the same. on this way stuff doesnt get mis interpertated and its moar fun to hear about shiny stuff being added to the game than to read it,"
"pretty simple:make incarna something you active through hanger view, like another station service. this way those of you who want it, can have it and those of us that would actually like a functional interface can have that too.tl:drcq optional, hanger view available"
"why not reduce the amount of supercaptials per system. excample each side could only have 10 per system if you wanted to have more in your home sustem the the ihub would have a mod that would allow you to have +5 per level. should make things more intersting. side not this change would not inculde carriers dreads. only supercaptials."
"i've thought about a system like that for years about the system cap for lag. the problem is you can exploit that. for example, if you wanted to turn the tide in your favor..if you had 5 friendly supers allowed and 5 allowed for neutrals/etc.. an alliance could just park 5 neutral supers in their system to block the system out for the attackers. this is not a solution."
"not only that, but if you can, as he said, \"increase your teams max by doing x or y\", then that just means that once an alliance holds sov, they wont lose it, because they will always have more super-slots then the attacker, so it still comes down to whoever can field the most supers, and in this case it would always be the defender, unless they just went broke, or were attacked as soon as they caught sov, but itb would still leave many systems uncapturable, making 0.0 an even more broken system."
"cyno jammers..."
"the op's argument makes sense, though i've never fought supercarriers myself of course. supported.my naive first thought is, could a fleet of dreads take out a supercarrier? it's a big slow thing, so a perfect target for big slow guns, maybe even in siege mode? surely there's a reason this isn't workable .. can anyone shed some light?edit: it's an issue, not a proposal"
"yes they can. in fact, subcaps have accomplished it before. at issue is to kill one, a fleet that doesn't have supers has to be fitted and have the fleet composition for killing them. it is like paper, rock, scissors, bomb... where the only thing that can kill the bomb is complex and requires the psychic ability (or meta gaming) to expect the bomb."
"interesting. alternatively, is there any way to neutralize the fighter-bombers, so that the supercarrier's effect on the battle is mitigated? if there is no such ship, or if the current options for neutralizing fighter-bombers are too elaborate, maybe a specialized anti-fighter-bomber ship would balance the sc's."
"1 or 2 supers are easy to kill with a mixed fleet of even sub-caps. the problem comes when there are like 50+ sc's on the field. unless you can field more, there is no way to win.another problem is when you do field a superior force of supers (hostiles field 50, you bring 75) the hostiles can just log off and only loose 5 or 6 by the time they disappear saving the majority of their force to try again instead of either fighting their way out or dieing.a couple of suggestions i believe might help would be: 1. if any ship is tackled (in a bubble or warp scrammed) the only way for it to disappear is either for it to be destroyed or tackle is lost. 2. pos warp disruption batteries and warp scrambling batteries should be able to hold any ship including titans and super-carriers.these changes wouldn't fix supers, but would go a long way in making alliances think about dropping insane size fleets if they aren't 90% safe. it would also not completely fix random hotdrops on idiots but would make some think twice about dropping in on a cyno pos."
"fighters have 20k ehps, and fb's have 30+k ehp, they are the size of cruisers, orbit well outside smartbomb range, dont' take much bomb damage, and go several hundred m/s. they can't be scrammed, and be nearly insta recalled when they take damage. additionally, by removing 1 fb in a sc, you can fit 200 ogre ii's. with 5 sc's on the field, each fielding 20 drones and having a drone bay able to hold 40-50 fighters, they easily have 3+ million ehp in fb's, 2m+ ehp in fighters, and 3m+ ehp in ogre ii's, by removing a second fighter bomber, you can add 200 hammerheads and 200 warrior 2's per sc. they essentially have unlimited drones to throw at targets. declawing a sc is rarely an option in the current environment. note, its not the fb's that really make the supercarrier so dominating. its the combination of: invulnerable to ewar, 30m ehp, lots of highs for rr, no siege timers, near-highest dps in game, and most versatile dps in game (they can field the right drones for the job). this last point insures that they can pretty much kill any ship that's a threat very quickly. the only thing that can stand their firepower is other supers."
"they don't do ****. show up when most of their time zone is offline and put that thing offline in 20 mins. it needs 2 reinforce timers to be effective at all. ^^^^^^^^^ he completely understands the problem."
"not an option unless they have maybe 2-3 nyx's.. when you get into the 10+ range then its not even worth it. 1 nyx will eat 3-5 dreads solo."
"ok sorry just had a better idear so simple should have posted last night cpatial smartbombs that can take out the peskey fighter bombers fitted to dreads given them a new rool on the battle field."
"perhaps an e-war capital ship? something strong enough to jam other capitals (including sc) and which also disrupts its drone control functions .. maybe a reduction in drone bandwidth."
"the problem goes beyond simple supercarriers. the current system in general rewards blobs more than anything else.there's no need to really develop tactics beyond quantity.i've always thought that designing ships for a fleet enviroment would be beneficial.adding active defenses to the mix, for instance. it would require a fair amount of work. you'd want to:drastically increase the range of missiles, and the ranges of projectile and hybrid weapons.drastically reduce the range of energy weapons.create a new layer of \"active defense\" slots. these would include counter missiles (for taking out missiles), and point defense emplacements that could be set to intercept and degrade incoming fire from turrets, or missiles or could be set to attack drones in range. but only one. lasers would be immune, but that's why they'd need the range reduction.create new classes of ships: dedicated escort ships that have larger numbers of active defense slots, and could fit a high slot module that would allow them to use their active defenses to protect nearby friendly vessels.new settings for drones: space superiority (will hunt down and destroy all hostile drones on their own) and alter the defend setting so that they will act as little mobile point defense units.capitol level command ships, for leading fleets. a new warfare links. one that would improve the effectiveness of active defenses, one that would allow all ships in a squadron to defend each other with their active defenses if in range...it creates a situation where you need to develop formations and coordination to use, but it would give you a significant advantage over those that fight willy-nilly."
"ironic seeing you are one of the alliances that are massive sc blobbers...but to the op i totally agree, eve is a mess now. i remember the good old days in tri when all we did was nice roaming gangs with 50 bs. but now even in low sec its become about whose got a super, then ppl wont even fight. its rather sad eve has become like this.i mean even titans are no good now..perhaps make titans be sc killers rather than just capital killers.scs should cost the same as a titan now, and titans should cost triple the price now. but then your stopping average jowe having one..i dont know the solution but eves pretty fecked now.."
"this is a great idea. should make your own topic for more in-depth discussion and balancing of the idea"
"please forward to ccp that they eighter need to get their updates worked out better so they can update tq within the time they specify.or they should announce longer extended dt from the start. this will stop all the people (like me) complaining and getting fed up with waiting."
"let me explain this to you in the easiest way i know:it's ccp.hope that little explination helps."
"soon"
"danger zone"
"sentry drones pick up speed and start moving towards their target at up to 1 m/s. this should not happen"
"from downtime to downtime they could potentially move over 80km, very imbalanced, clearly matters, very important, yes.edit- for that matter i imagine micro-movement is possibly the method they use to align sentry drones to the the target they're firing on rather then send a orientation tranform type command, in any case it scarcely matters."
"in my short time playing eve i've come across all kinds of players who have all kinds of feelings about pvp. some are disgusted by how much of a funhouse it can be for the well experienced pirates vs noobs. some hate the way it caters to genuinely cruel people who love nothing more than to ruin the fun of new players. some of them are those players. some of them rationalize the current freedom of war and pvp as \"a game mechanic that they want to explore.\" for years there have been proposals about changing the mechanics of war, adding conditions, and many other things.but this idea is different, and very basic.war disparity mechanics - a system by which the expense of declaring war in eve would be scaled based on the disparity between the combined skillpoints of the two involved corporations.(skillpoint total of corp a) - (skillpoint total of corp b) = price of war in isk. if the total is less than 0, then the cost of war is free.this price would be shown to the wardec-ing party with an option to pay, of course, as a means of deterrent for bully corps to harass new players. this would encourage more enjoyable conduct among all corps, and help players not interested in pvp to feel that the system in place is less biased toward bullies, because now they have to pay for the difference. both corps should be shown the war price. this would make war less about steamrolling, and more about sportsmanlike play of the competitive part of eve."
"note - yes, this will make some war completely unaffordable, and some of the most gigantic alliances in the game will find it out of the question to declare war on a small corp as a whole, which might be an irrational disparity. i think for my idea to work, an option would need to be added for an allied corp to declare war independently from their alliance."
"i think i can summarize the general response to this in a single, over-used phrase:wow is that way ---->"
"i don't say this often... but the above statement suggests to me that you aren't quite \"fit\" for eve. \"sportsmanship\" and \"competitive\" are not terms you can simply throw around here. meta-gaming, subterfuge/sabotage, and bribery make very certain of that.hell... what happened in the alliance tournament ix recently shows that both terms hold little weight in this game.i must add though that it is possible. but you have to make it possible with others and be willing to enforce the \"spirit\" of those terms. red vs. blue is one good example of this... somewhat."
"additionally, using the raw skill point totals of the two corporations is not a great idea.for example, corp a, a hardened merc corp with only a few members who have spent all their time training for pvp declares war on corp b, a bunch of industry bears who have more more total skill points due to their higher number of members.lets assume that corp a has 5 members with an average skill point value of 20 million. lets also assume that corp b has 30 members with an average skill point total of 10 million.this means that the cost of the wardec (a-b = 100 million - 300 million = -200 million) would be 0.under your formula, corp a could simply farm corp b for kills indefinitely, and with no war dec fee as long as they kept the total sp less than the industry corp they were attacking.far from decreasing the amount of \"bullying\" as you put it, i expect it would actually go up, since now the cost to wardec a more or less helpless, but large, corporation would be even less than it is now (if not free).to counter this, industrialists and miners would either:a) move back to npc corps, or b) move to tiny corporations with only one or two members.or alternatively, incidents of corp hopping to evade the wardecs would rise.while it's true that the current wardec mechanics aren't great, your proposed fixes would make some of the least desirable aspects of the mechanic even more prevalent."
"i agree with the goal, but not the specific proposal. total skillpoints don't measure war disparity very well, since targeted 'newbie' corps tend to have 1) lots of people and 2) lots of skill points in mining, industry, etc.maybe something like .. a corp can't be war dec'ed in the first 90 days of its existence. yes, there would be some who re-create their corp and shuffle members to evade war, but players can do this to avoid war even now."
"interesting idea.. but not practical... a small corp/alliance can be a real pita for a large alliance that the alliance should have every right in the world to dec them without having to pay billions for the war. a war mechanic change seems reasonable, as its pretty much dirt cheap to do it now. an escalating cost sounds like the best option i've heard."
"so, what if.... i create a 1 man corp and war dec you, i have 10 million sp and combined your corp has 100 million (you have a lot of people). so this war is free, and once it's active i invite 20 friends to join my corp...."
"you got the formula wrong. if corp a's skill point total is 20 million and corp b's total is 10, then:(20,000,000) - (10,000,000) = 10,000,000isk to wardec.i'm not saying my idea would make it impossible for *******s to keep being *******s. i'm just saying it would cost, and it would influence corporations to be more practically structured. piling 100's of noobs into a corp wouldn't work out well. the safest and most successful corps in pvp would be come the ones who were more well rounded and actually prepared."
"actually, the numbers i stated were averages per member (as it says in my post), not totals. go back and re-read my post carefully, and you'll see what i meant."
"ah ok ... well my proposal isn't really intended to deter wars from being waged among highly experienced players, be they all combat or all indy trained. this is to keep that same small corp of 10 pvpers from steamrolling on the newer players who are just trying to enjoy missioning and corp mechanics without harassment."
"so what is stopping corps currently recruiting to be more practically structured now?"
"well intended, but the proposal would fail to achieve what it sets out to.dec'ing corps already quite often are much smaller than the victim bear corp anyway, because it gives them more targets, and many bears are harmless even when in numbers (mostly for lack of organization). and bigger wardec'er corps could just split into two or more to cut down dec'ing costs. by your logic dec'ing could even pay out, if the total skillpoints of the victim corp is larger than of the attacker.finally, looking back getting dec'ed was one of the best things that happened to my first empire bear corp. it made the corp get organized and focus on beating the agressors, which we did eventually, and quite successfully.\"competitive\" and \"metagaming\" are not mutually exclusive. you just have to accept that if you don't metagame, you are handicapping yourself."
"it was suggested in my original thread on this idea that i put this in the assembly hall: ("
"problem with dumb fire is that you will see many of these ships fielded to counter even a small sub-cap fleet, and with all those missiles being tracked by the sytem for vectors and whatnot, would put a great deal of stress on it, though if they could only be shot from like 10km or so, that might help."
"first, the idea behind eve gate is awesome, though due to it being a pain in the arse to get to, it kinda fails. my idea is this: integrate it into the client, when you get a status update from someone on your contacts list or corp, it pops up at the (top/bottom) of the screen for a moment, then vanishes. on that same thread, have the ability to post updates from within the client. both features should obviously be toggle-able so as to avoid forcing unwanted features on those that don't want to use the feature."
"basically a very simple thing, allow to leave the char customization w/o taking a new photo by a simple \"save&exit\" button.reasons:1. i found it annoying and time consuming to pose the char again if you just want to change pants to a skirt or something like this to test how it looks in the qc. also i am quite comfortable with the look on the picture for my chars, however some looks kind of strange in qc(might be the lightning) so i would like to change the cloth to something that suits the environment in qc better without changing the picture again.2. the picture of a char has quite some value to recognize the char again. not any kind of cloth hairstyle look good out of any position so the appearance of chars can change a lot with the new options you just added and makes it harder to recognize them when they want to play a bit around with the options and change her appearance often.3. it is optional, if you found something that you like and that you want to show on your picture you can do it. if you just want to try something out and keep your photo like it is, there is also a option for this."
"hybrid users rejoice, the buff is coming!rejoice!"
"omg!so they head us! i just wonder about the when! how far down the list is hybrids i wonder. will it get done the year. oh i hope. i just started training minnie on my main because i didnt want to wait any longer, is there hope? dont i have to drop gallente. please dev, say i dont have to drop gallente training"
"it's actually a decent idea and probably well balanced. minmatar could still neut the cap hungry gallente hull to death, and you'd see more webs on minmatar hulls to help them keep at 10 km (outside most blaster range). whatever. ccp loves minmatar so gallente is screwed."
"that is impossible. the best jam strength you can get is somewhere in the mid-teens, which is enough to permajam a cruiser or perhaps a bc. eccm doubles your sensor strength, making it far less likely to work. the check for jam is jam strength divided by sensor strength. so for every active jammer, you would check at 14 (racials on a dedicated and rigged ecm boat) / 70 (using your number) so exactly a 20% chance to jam for every 20 second cycle.hardly permajammed. you probably fly a hurricane with no eccm (base sensor strength of 16) and tried to solo said falcon, which was likely sporting at least one minmatar racial jammer. in that case (14/16), you could very well get permajammed."
"falcons jam from waaaay beyond warp scramble/disrupt range, all u have to do is warp out.sounds like a good defensive strategy to me.if u actually died 1vs1 to a falcon i'd love to see the lolmail.."
"f.o.f. missiles, message ends."
"all frig class npcs to get web and scramthis means tripple bs chained spawns in belts get at least a couple of scramming/webing frigs included in the spawnall anomolies get couple of frigs with scram and web per spawn.i'm only proposing for a couple of such basic scram/webbing frigs per spawn/wave. this change would not solve botting, but it might reduce it by just a bit."
"i would like to see the number of scram/web frigates boosted.... but i don't think it needs to be all frigs.... especially in low-sec/hi-sec. i think that under most circumstances, most higher bounty (1m+) bs spawns in belts should have more scram/web frigs. and anomalies can definitely utilize more!!!"
"how is it a gamble? you think a server mix up will happen? the chances of that happening are about the same chance of the server deleting you're most prized ship by accident. it's not a feasible case scenario.is it a gamble because of user mistake? expiration would be off by default, if you change it it's your own fault, just like if you forgot to turn on your hardeners in a mission and lost your ship. this would be a great thing for people who live in wormholes or otherwise explore."
"this is a waste of ccp resources.delete your own bookmarks if u no longer need them."
"the market regionality is actually one of those things that makes eve feel big. if anything, they need to be separated more..."
"^^ this.topic not supported. the different regions allow for inter-region trading to be profitable."
"i'm gonna have to disagree with this as well, on the grounds of game and real-world implications. game implications mean that there are whole occupational fields set up because of this mechanic, from traders to couriers. huge sellers' markets like verge vendor, derelik, devoid, and genesis exist because of this discrepancy, and likewise buyers' markets like sinq liaison and the forge.let me ask you, how many rubles or yen does a big mac cost? it's the same idea - people don't know the prices of items on other markets, or else have to do research to find those prices.sorry, not supported."
"it's a feature that's in such high demand there are 3rd party applications and websites for checking markets in other regions. arbitrary counter-intuitive restrictions will always run into trouble. it's the same as people making bms when there were no warp to zero on gate, or people using travel macros atm because ap don't warp to zero. it's in high demand, it's a reasonable and intuitive function, it's going to happen one way or another."
"seeing orders in other regions: maybe, but rather not.unifying all regional markets: absolutely not. reasons were already posted. it would basically kill most of the traders, or at least make their life much more difficult by increasing competition that used to be distributed over regions, increase 0.01 isk games, eliminate the characteristics of regional markets killing diversity and trading activities."
"i think this will not kill regional markets, because nobody will make 40 jumps to buy his ammo or other stuff. there are hotspots in the universe where the missionrunners are (lvl. 4 agents), where fw is, etc. and this is where the traders should sell thier goods.the only reason for partial crazy margins is, that the \"non traders\" only want to get thier goods and not spending hours to find good offers.a traders job is to transport goods where they are needed or to organize the transport and the sell them there.in real world the markets come to the people.in eve people come to markets...edit:this is how markets work... if someone in emolgranlan want to buy ammo for the double price, why not serve the order? some players do 10 jumps to safe 3isk and others don't.a universe wide market will present the buy/sell-orders in real time (not like eve-central) and a trader can serve them or not. maybe with much better margins.what? the eve market is like amazon. and amazon provide me all sell-orders they have.i don't need to travel to america to see the sell orders that were made there!in eve i need to."
"i think this would be a lovely tweak and as a trader i have to say that this wouldn't affect my trading in any negative way whatsoever. if anything it would be beneficial; those items that are profitable but hard to come by would suddenly be sitting in my hangar much more often."
"marvelous idea. training level v is the ban of my eve existence."
"this^entitlements for vets drives noobs away. the current specialization skills are already op as is, since they allow cheap t2 guns to outdps vastly more expensive faction guns. t2 guns do not need even more unbalancing. when you unbalance stuff that are cheap, it creates problems, as everyone and their mother go for it. everyone will train lvl5 specialization for this insane bonus curve. there's a reason ccp don't use \"^\" anywhere, and use only flat values in formulas.in that case, remove specialization skills. problem solved."
"well that was the last tourney i will watch,,,a sham and disgraceful,,both parties should be punished/banned for more tournies,,not that i will watch them to find out,,a sad day tho ali"
"\"compete\"metagaming is a valid mechanic and therefore hydra competed beautifully.but that's obviously a meta-level too high for some. i guess the same crowd would also support bans for jita scammers, then griefers...also, since it's illegal to fix matches in rl sports, they can't possibly be arranged, right?"
"it's called 'fixed window' option in graphics settings."
"always thought it was a good idea,,why not? hope some agree ali"
"bpo's research is more productive. the bpc is one time use mechanics, so any time invested is wasted when it's done. you can still research for tech ii of course, but that is best achieved with copies of an unresearched bpo. me and pe make no difference here, with no effect on the end result. a tech i bpc is basically just a photocopy, and tech ii bpcs are photocopies with writing in the margins and scrawled diagrams and material lists to assist with the creation of the tech ii item. why any of that is necessary after the hundredth time is anyone's guess."
"you said it yourself mars, you can't have everyone in the same place and happy. with two shards, there will be a breif lull in the complaints before they start back up again."
"quite possibly, but at least it would take a couple years seriously though, the changes to aggression mechanics and allowances for highsec to directly counter lowsec and open up a more versatile form of pvp might help things. many pirates are pirates because they want to pvp without being in blobs in null or being subject to the big alliances. station games are dull for the most part, and that leaves lowsec and wardec's for the most part.of course, there are groups like rvb, but that is limited to those two corporations and those like them. so really, the options are limited, and when you get in with a group of hardcore gankers with fc's cursing and shouting all the time, plus ship losses and isk from kills as a limited resource, it becomes more viable to gank the helpless than actually take risks. yet, somehow, corps like rvb seem to do it, and that may have to do with that they collect the loot and salvage for recycling. honestly think high vs low would work well in many respects, open up opportunities for rp for some players, and generally create a more dynamic and healthy pvp system.currently, there's lots of problems and not much fix."
"ccp dont listen to the nc / ex-nc csm anyway, if you look at their future planned changes you will see that they are opposite to mittani's grand vision, in fact the second the nc / ex-nc csm got power ccp changed 0.0 that directly affected them.it was kind of ccp's way of slapping mittani across the face.it is like winning miss usa, you may have a crown on your head but dont think it means anything you will still be the girl who thought europe was a country."
"please elaborate; i'm sure you have references to support your hypothesis? also, what \"future planned changes\" are opposite to \"mittani's grand vision\"?"
"please, please please, can we have a transcript from these? i can't listen to these and am currently excluded because of it.being discriminated against in game because i can't use team speak is one thing and i can live with that, but also by our official representatives to ccp is a bit much!i've asked for them in the thread from the first fireside and i've been ignored."
"dear lord you're dumb! what are they supposed to do when ccp asks for their opinion on topics which they're not allowed to talk about in public?talk about it in public! (and breach the nda)refuse to give counsel at all.discuss it with ccp and represent the player base as good as they can, for the good of the game.you decide! no, wait, you don't decide  which is good, because you have no idea what you're talking about."
"or maybe they could make sure they set aside some time for the concerns voiced by the players which they supposedly represent."
"tut power block.. ****s .. **** off"
"edit - added station / incarna / video card / hanger related issues.protect our ship spinning and our video card with the option to load incarna environment."
"yes... after it hits tq... given we raised this about a month ago wouldn't then have been the time for csm action?"
"the csm is far too busy fighting over technium moons and losing their space to care about issues raised in game.but fear not, soon they wont have any more 0.0 space and then they will have to come to the forums.also if you have any complaints, please eve mail your csm delegates atthe mittaniseleeneuaxdeathtrebor daehdoowkiller2"
"i sent one to vile rat, who has csm delegate on the forums...he didn't (hasn't yet) respond...also isn't the above a pretty good reason to fire the csm?"
"so now that incarna 1.0 got out... what more proof do you need ?"
"i think they altered their company direction.they did not rush this out.what should scare you is that they put years into this and rushed everything else to get this done.and it is still..."
"+1it is not possible to release patches that are completly error free in a reasonable amount of time as it takes the mass of people on tq to find everything...but incarna was released with a hoard of defects discovered on the brief time it spent on sisi b"
"yes!"
"again no.. wtf ccp!"
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no!!"
"no"
"as it turns out, there are no microtransactions. still, no."
"no absolutely not, they will make the best sandbox mmo ever like a ****ty browser pay-to-win game...... it's a shame and i am ready to leave eve if they will ruin the game for more money than my already expensive subscription"
"no"
"no."
"major league no!"
"no"
"no!"
"no!"
"no."
"no !!"
"no."
"en oh."
"no.ccp should heed peoples righteous outcry. the pricing of aurum items displays quite frankly contempt for your player base. u obviuosly sat down and thought what is the maximum we can get out off our players, if not, was $1000 fielded for 1/2 pair of glasses?, will the fish tank cost the same as a small bungalow in iceland? pixelated, cloneable, clothing should not cost more than its real life equivalent, period. quite frankly i'm disgusted by this play, i can oly hope it was a accountant that suggested these prices, cause it certaily was not a gamer."
"no !"
"no no et re no !!!"
"no not ever"
"no!"
"no"
"[cosmetic only]i don't mind having cosmetic things to look more awesome when in a station, just the pricing at the moment is insane. a monocle that does nothing costs more than a dreadnaught.. somethign is wrong then.redcuing the prices by a factor of 10-50-100 would make it far more appealing to buy stuff."
"after watching cq, and the aurum, and overall a lot of wasted dev time, i'd liek to bring this back up"
"incarna makes this the most hilarious thread on the forum, except that monocle ganking one."
"both of you must be thinking of character transfersas described here, name changing will not allow you to evade your reputation (reading comprehension)if you 'lived with' everything as is in eve you'd be back playing the castor expansion. your name is not your reputation, it is a name. your name doesn't leave you and go out and do stuff (er, without violating the eula or character transfers); reputation is the sum of the actions of the person in control. this is why character transfers are bad.it's refreshing to see an argument and a solution in one post (well, i personally don't like the solution and question the middle-alphabet-apocalypse, but it's another one to the list). well played, don't forget to tic the \"support\" box!"
"this seems like a good proposal."
"people will just leave them cloaked indefinitely with a pc running 23/7, relog, recloak. although you could also make them unable to cloak :)"
"/sign"
"sounds like a good idea"
"signing this again! :)"
"so, it makes sense now, they want to rmt fittings for our \"convenience\"."
"i like it, i'll probably leave it turned on with one or two of the machines i play on, but want to keep it disabled on my laptop for performance reasons. i want the option to go ship spinning back too!"
"make it really optional, don't force everyone to use unfinished crap which burns out graphic cards or sit in front of an ugly wallpaper."
"cq is fail. i want to spin my ship and turn all that stuff off."
"plus ****ing 1there needs to be a commitment from ccp for a permanent solution to this nonsense. in its current form, a non-gameplay element in influencing gameplay (docking loading times, number of clients running). this is not acceptable."
"thanks ccp! now instead of paying ccp for eve i have to buy plex and save up to buy new gfx card to play eve. well done, and for that 4th account i was going to open, all ready thinking of liquidating the 3rd account and going back to 2. to cut my electric bill, when docked!"
"yes, please make this rubbish optional"
"i would love to be able to opt out of cq for the old interface. it brings nothing to the game that i can see and if i uncheck load station enviro i have to open fittings to see what ship i'm in. disappointing at best."
"bad cq is bad"
"-1 account because my barely 1 year old computer struggles to run 2 eve clients at the same time. i think ccp will be saving lots of players rl cash when there is no sense to most people running more than one. with one expansion ccp have turned eve into a"
"terrible, make optional."
"please keep your crap expansions away from the actual eve gameplay."
"i want to ship spin again"
"hey ccp, i'm not living in north alaska, i don't need something to warm my flat !!!my mcbookpro will melt because of your crappy cq !!!useless, power-consuming, laptop killer.want my old hangar view too !!!"
"i'd rather have the old hangar back even if i can run it smoothly or not :/<3 old hangar"
"captains quarters need to be optional. my computer may run it fine, but the controls are clunky as hell, and my whole computer runs so hot its ridiculous. give me my old hangar view back, this stupid fixed image is annoying."
"should be an option after docking imo"
"please make cq/incarna optionali want back my old spin ship view and this is spaceship game mostly (walking in station is nice add, but that all)"
"i don't know why i even have to ask for this."
"this.give back ship spinning."
"because of team :awesome:..."
"captains quarters need to be optional.it negatively effects gameplay and is terrible."
"please stop wasting our time, our money, and our patience."
"on top of everything else in getting rid of hangarview they've disabled drag and drop to \"make active\" on a ship, adding an extra unneded mouse click every time i dock.i want a de-pod button right next to undock, bring back ship spinning."
"i agree with what has been said. we should have the option to use the previous view, even if it is not the default. an unpod button would also be a decent fix but still cause a bit of annoyance for people"
"i want my station spinning back, this static picture is a half arsed solution, that you ccp implemented because you couldn't imagine why on earth people wouldn't want to use your 2008 looking 3d system that frankly needs a top end system to multi-box without burning it all to hell.my sandbox dosn't feel too sodding sandy."
"signed. but i dont mind the door pic, its even less resource demanding than before, multiple account heaven!keep it optional, or lose at least 3 paying accounts. possibly 4. if i cant use them at the same time, i have no need for them."
"make it optional!"
"supported-edit forgot support :/"
"supported times elevendy billion."
"that."
"signed x5 accountsps: thought we'd gotten past fear and loathing in the mac client but i guess it's back. well played, ccp, not."
"supported."
"i approve, options makes us free, not the lack of them"
"i support making cq optional. i'm on a budget and can't afford to keep upgrading my computer every time ccp \"improves\" the game. if ccp makes the game unplayable, then my two accounts walk. no point in paying for a game that doesn't work."
"as primarily a trader i really miss being able to spin whichever little frig i decide to sit in for the day. i'm not going to burn 3x the gpu power to watch my avatar scratch the back of his neck over and over. so now i'm stuck staring at the door."
"cyno alt haet walking in closets"
"i totally agree with op. it's not that we want a static background. it's that we want to dock, but stay in the ship. it doesn't require any new code, just one condition, an option and a button.1. option \"do not load station environment\" is fine.(if it's marked, load the static background)2. option \"do not auto-leave the ship after docking\" needs to be added. (if it is marked, load old hangar view, if not, load cq)3. button \"leave ship and go to cq\" needs to be addeed to neocom.(if it is clicked, go to cq)this will let us to have ship spinning, which is a part of entertainment that eve provides, and you very well know that however silly that sounds it's true that it's fun thing to do and we like and want it.this will also allow us to not-auto-load cq every time we dock. sometimes we just want to grab ammo, drone, or the forgotten courier package and undock immedietelly.do not force your visions down our throats, just give us choice, thank you."
"supported. get on it :csm: !"
"i'd like to be able to turn this off, please."
"can i plus one higher than one?like ovah 9000?"
"ninty percent of the threads in this topic are written by a bunch of whining clowns."
"i want my old station view back. :("
"--cq optional, supported. if it becomes mandatory, you lose another player. simply can't play it on my laptop with the station loading requirements. no whining, a simple fact of hardware.i remember the eve causality trailer i watched on youtube which got "
"fixed."
"it was interesting for about 60 seconds. now it's just an annoying resource hog."
"please make it optional"
"+1 make it optional please. i'm just here to fly spaceships. if i wanted to walk around, i would play wow and hang around org."
"there isn't a good enough reason to make this mandatory. until something substantive arrives for incarna, this new interface is simply causing systems to utilize more resources to do the same thing as the older interface did."
"eve players aren't opposed to new content, but when the new content is mediocre and is released and integrated with all the subtlety of a sledge hammer it is not appreciated."
"optional or bust!"
"ccp please make the cq optional, let us go back to the old station view. what first drove me to the game was it's freedom it was basically a universe where you could do whatever the hell you liked, and where everything was optional. you could run your own corporation, or just sit in jita 4-4 and scam people. but now it seems some of that choice has been taken away from us. not to mention some features that allowed for less clicking in contextual menus, such as being able to drag your ship into the hangar and have it activate, instead of having to right click and hunt for the make active button. not to mention \"spin-gate\" as i liked to call it. honestly i can't tell you how many times i've spun a ship in station and with each rotation grown to love it a little more.i must say this is the first time in my ever career where i seriously thinking of just cancelling my subsription and going on to something else. i honestly thought that ccp was a good company that listened to its audience but now i fear that i was wrong."
"make cq optional."
"make it optional"
"yes please, make cq optional!"
"supported!"
"supported."
"supported."
"needs to happen."
"supported. please give my back old spinning ship view!"
"supported"
"supported!i have disabled cq on all my accounts to stop getting mad from the sound of my pc fans"
"+1please make it optional!"
"agreed. station hangar on dock, disembark to enter cq/incarna"
"they broke the single biggest activity in eve, ship spinning."
"optional"
"optional!"
"optional"
"make ambulation in general optional - i didnt buy spacesims i bought eve"
"cq really need to be optional. dock to hangar and either undock or move to cq from there."
"+1 please make cq optional!wtb my spin ship view back!"
"i want the old hanger view with drag and drop ships back as an option, i don't want dress up barbie."
"indeed. cq should be optional. supported. static view is good, but we want our old ship-spinning"
"while i don't approve of the op's publicity posting around the forums, i do support the idea of having incarna be optional. i don't understand why ccp thought they could proceed without doing so."
"you have my hand."
"1.0"
"1.0"
"enable the old station environment as a choice! i wanna drag&drop to switch my ship without cq enabled."
"i want to spin ships again.so that's why i fully support this topic."
"supported"
"supported. there is no logical reason for cq/wis to be mandatory instead of optional."
"1.0"
"supported"
"i like the cq. it loads and works fine for me. i like where ccp is going with incarna.even so, i do support making the cq and everything that will eventually come behind it completely optional. allow people to dock and only see the hanger, even if it is eventually an update hanger interface, allow people to interact with a station as they always have been able to without loading any 3d environment. from the hanger, after you dock you should have a button that says \"enter station\" if that is where you want to go. and i also support being able to adjust 3d environment graphics setting separate from the space environment graphics settings."
"done.. i wrote to them"
"make it optional."
"station hangar / spinship standard, cq optional (2nd step after docking)"
"i agree this ought to be optional. i'd rather have seen more new ships and modules and less paper dolls."
"i don't need to see the amount of aurum i currently have right below the amount of isk i have on the wallet tab. i also love how you think by putting it in turquoise to pop off the screen will make me think i need to get some aurum because the balance is zero. nice try.under the settings tab there should be an option to not display the amount of aurum you have. also put the isk amount back on the left."
"i will never have aurum, i know i have 0 aurum, and i dont plan on getting any because to me, 400mil for a plex is a lot to spend on vanity.after seeing the prices i know for fact i will not be buying any, eve isnt my \"hobby\" that ccp thinks, video games are a cheap sources of entertainment, i play eve because i can have fun for hours for only $15 a month"
"also, put my balance back on the left side."
"+1i never intend to use aur, and i have no interest in having my wallet cluttered up with useless info/buttons.move crappy aur wallet some place else.... the bin would be good."
"honestly, i'm not sure why they added yet another currency to the game rather than just making everything cost isk, considering isk can be converted into aurum. either they didn't think it through or they did it as a way to trap rm money (in the same way a $5 store gift card is trapped money). except, this is a store that only accepts gift cards, and the gift cards are for amounts different than the prices of items in the store, assuring that anyone who spends money in the store spends more money than the price of anything in the store in a permanent way. so, you'd really have to want something to take that plunge, or see a bunch of stuff worth buying. with only 8 items and a history of lack of iteration...edit: forgot to support."
"someone has to buy that plex and put $15 in cpp's bank account for that aurum to exist. that's the difference between aur and isk.i support the proposal, i don't plan on acquiring space barbie moneies."
"+1 for uncluttering the ui."
"i never want aur and having it showing is distracting when i look at my wallet."
"support this,"
"if anyone needs a name change, it would be me..."
"i would like to propose that loot log exporting be brought back, as it was before incursion 1.5, or incorporated into the api in some new way, so that we don't have to spend a large amount of time figuring out the loot shares for fleet members.the removal of this feature has caused a lot problems for myself, my corp-mates, and many other people who have been discussing it in this thread.this feature saved a lot of time for op-coordinators, and fleet leaders, by allowing us to export the loot logs, and input them into a 3rd party program to determine who deserves what share of the profits. now we have to go through the in-game loot logs manually, and determine shares manually, or manually type out a document with what the exported loot log would have been to input it into our 3rd party programs.if this feature were to return in some way, it would save countless man-hours for op-coordinators, and fleet leaders, by allowing them to easily use 3rd party programs for dividing loot shares again. i also feel that ccp has ignored the players by removing this feature, and only giving us a pathetic response telling us it was removed because ccp soundwave isn't a fan of export features in general then completely ignoring the thread. the response to the player outcry on this issue has been pitiful at best.after saying that, i would also like to include in my proposal that when, and if this is brought to ccp's attention, our very deep disappointment in their response to the player outcry is conveyed to them, and ask that they try to respond better to issues like this in the future, or at the very least, if they only post a single reply to an issue like this, come up with a better more detailed reason for the features change/removal."
"i too would like this feature brought back. i know of 2 people which had multiple accounts each, let the game go because of this feature. both were indy pilots like myself. running mining ops is what we do. how do we divy up the payments if we cant export the loot log and run numbers into a spreadsheet? yeah, its still 'possible' but it is unnecessarily complicated. i would like this feature to come back to the game asap. it was not hurting anyone before, and all it has had is negative effects since it was taken away. please bring loot export back asap. lenny."
"i used the export feature heavily. i even wrote a web service where i could upload a loot log and get payout amounts in seconds. now i'm back to entering the loot information into a spreadsheet by hand. i don't even care to lead pve ops anymore because of the removal of this feature. just not worth the hassle."
"yes is would like this back as well"
"i rarely use this feature, but removal of something so obviously useful to a large set of players seems rather ridiculous. how much code did it take to simply export? it doesn't degrade performance, it doesn't exploit the game in any way, it allows players to function more efficiently in game.+1 for putting this functionality back in."
"please get this put back."
"yes, seconded. this regression brought back a significant and unwelcome burden for anyone who has to calculate splits after an extraction or sleepers op, record looting after a roam or whatever. it should be reversed as soon as possible.while of no concern to many, loot logging is a daily concern to some - and those are people whom other players depend upon for their enjoyment of the game. it does not help eve when you re-institute a banal punishment duty on op leaders for no apparent reason.eve's feature set would be crushed if minority interest were reason enough to remove something. a feature's failure to \"thrill\" a particular developer isn't a good criteria either - at least not unless he explains why it doesn't. ccp soundwave's bewildering response on the 20th of may certainly didn't contain any explanation, though i would be fascinated to hear what (if any) reasons he can produce now."
"totally support, took my jacket off and it seems everyone gotta know :/"
"makes sense."
"1.0"
"yes, this was among the first things i tried in incarna (and was disappointed by)."
"supported."
"currently there are 4 movement shortcuts: move forward, move backward (which doesn't actually make you walk backwards :( ), move left, move right.most first and third player games allow you to do more. more specifically, most games have wasd bound to move forward, move backward, strafe/turn left, strafe/turn right. the current mechanics are wonky and make moving around feel very unnatural.this proposal requests ccp to add 4 more shortcuts to the collection of movement shortcuts:turn leftturn rightstrafe leftstrafe rightadditionally, it would be nice if a toggle would enable my forward/backward/left/right to be relative to the current direction my character is facing, rather than the current situation where it is relative to the way my camera faces. a toggle because maybe some people like it the way it currently is."
"i'd really like to see this too. they'd probably have to add strafing animations before this could be implemented. something like this would become more important when the stations open up common spaces for people to interact.it'd be nice if they looked to games that really do 3rd person controls well. personally, i'd suggest dead space. i always thought that game had great controls."
"1.0"
"hi, i just wanted to throw a wild idea at you guys for the eve game play. as i like to go mining often i notes something rather odd... like most miners i like to drop cans as i mine, and as usual we often get them robed... so, i was wondering when we (the miners) will ever get are revenge, as in a bran spanking new \"booby trap can\", in the real world i do believe that miners would start to do stuff like this.specs:-when ejecting cargo you get the choose of the regular container or the booby trapped container.-18k m3.- can only be dropped by mining barges, exhumers and industrial ships.- can only access by you, your fleet, corp, alliance.- if access by someone els... will blow up that ship 50% of the time. a kind of caned russian relet.- ore industrial skill: 5% grater chances of explosion per skill level."
"supported. make it 100% instead of 50%. miners get lol@ exploding griefers, griefers get instant aggro timed at their convenience and auto switch to pod for faster swap to combat ship back at station. everyone's happy."
"its the only thing in the game which is essay money. all the other ways to mack isk (mining, rating, missioning, salvaging) all have some kind of challenge, time, risk of getting your ship blown up."
"awesome idea explosion radius 5kmdmg: all types (cargo amount x 800%) cabouuuum hihihi"
"id leave it at 50% + skill bones, or els whats the point. if the can jumper knows he's gana get popped no one will try to steal, it just nulls the hole idea of the boobm can. think of it as a russian runlet..."
"am i the only one ****ed off with this expansion? this aurum and exchange rate thing is such an obvious money making ploy its sickening. i thought ccp was better than this...guess not."
"who cares, just undock, problem solved."
"its not that....goes way beyond."
"it doesn't end with the few articles of clothing currently in the shop. many planned customizations are likely to revolve around the noble exchange. free expansions start to lose their meaning when half the content needs to be paid extra for."
"i do agree that the prices for those items are rediculously high. $60 worth of plex for a monacle? one that is destroyed if you are podded? sorry...thats not a \"microtransaction\"...that is a wallet ****. those items need to be drastically reduced in price. unless that monacle actually gives some really cool abilities like its description states...it is not worth that much."
"so the vanity item price list is now known and we all now know that a space monocle, the pinnacle of ccp's investment in walking in stations, costs a miserly 12,000 aur, which in effectively 3 and a half plex. i shouldn't have to tell you what a plex goes for in isk but if you don't know that works out to about 1.4 billion isk. let's list out all the things you could buy with 1.4 billion isk. to start off...four hundred and twenty thousand copies of pax amarria"
"hmm i get those for free as im the best and greatest amarr rule supporter in eve,convo me to trade those for a space monocle ^^"
"i could get bunch of real quality t-shirts with price of digital internet spaceship t-shirt"
"so... 3,500 aur for a plex...plex costs 400m, or like $18 from shattered crystalthe monicle costs 12,000... thats around three and a half plex.alomst 1.4bn isk or $61...what on earth were you thinking...that is f&%$<U+FFFD>&g outrageous...if your going to give vanity items out at least make them cheap enough that they dont bankrupt people..."
"that jsut shows way that aur brath in the gamer to make anormus amount ioff money for ccp. and increase drasticly plex prices."
"reduce all aur prices by a factor of 100 tia."
"or eve more actualy i dont see point to have atall aur in game eny way **** in game geting seled in isk and need to be so no aur at all ingame."
"be honest vincent, did you buy it thinking it was 1200 and not 12000? now your emo ranging ****ed off...."
"i tink hee didnt bath but lloked on prices i to loked there that is 12000 aur that ****ing expansive."
"i have not, and currently... will never buy anything in the aur store unless they change the prices... the prices are clearly ridiculous.... it shouldnt cost over 100 days subscription costs to purchase a useless monicle... has anyone actually purchased this monicle? if so... send me some free isk while your at it... you must be loaded with cash...this could be a decent program... maybe 120 aur for it would be more suitable... a little fun but nothing game changing..."
"space monocle vs rorqual...space monocle vs two kilometer long transforming flying space ore factory that that can jump between star systems..."
"i too agree 3 and half plex that would around 60usd is quite much for a monocle for one mmo character jesus christthere's other name for this crime, it's called extortion. 2 years prison. go now without going to start square"
"he doesn't want to be protected from the prober, he wants to kill the prober, as a prober himself, which is perfectly reasonable.yes, probing should not be risk free, whether it's combat or core probes. supported."
"this would break scanning mechanics in wh's...absolutely not a good idea."
"uh, no. this is almost as bad as the people crying about afk cloaking and the carebears wanting local removed. this is a whine about a vital game mechanic. probers are completely useless if they can't actually probe."
"suported good idea if if that gos only to combat probes not to usual scan probes. if you wish take some one down put in efoce there and teka a risk not sit hided behind cauck.this not breaking usual probing but only combat probing makes a litle bit harder and risonable to give defender or defenders time to probe you out until you probing them out."
"a little excessive if you ask me and makes coverts all but useless for the task.at most, make actually running a scan with probes require you to decloak and in exchange cut the reactivation delay to 10s or so.if possible, being able to move probes while hidden would be optimal, but requires the move/scan functionality to be separated so not sure if doable."
"i agree with kamikaze jihawt on this. the prober should have the same risk as the target. making them uncloak to accomplish probing sounds like a great way to do it.a few additional points... probers can make safe points, nothing said they can't warp around while probing.covert cloaks are for travel, they do nothing to add to security while probing, hell i can the same thing with a t1 cloak. it isn't until i want to warp that the covert cloak is important."
"not supportedthe presence of combat probes in the system is visible on the directional scanner. if you are too lazy to use it, then thats your loss."
"yopu see only probes not ship, if its able to see ship and warp to it and kil it then itsoki but now its only probes wath i see that notinaf to kil that freek ko truing to scan me down more risk for such types need to be ion game not only safe scanintg waroping to target 3 sec lock scram and cyno up. victime dead tath safe for enganging force no risk at all ."
"omgifucantproperlytypeonyourmobilepleaseuseyourpcinsteadcausethisisjustplainunreadable."
"er, why do you think that the prober is probing you out? if you want to gank the prober, just sit still for 30 seconds and you'll get your chance."
"this only helps those who want to hide. we don't want to hide, we want to kill the prober, which is currently impossible."
"no, there should be a warning if you are being probed down--> less stupid scanner spam --> more fun , less lag"
"well i can't one shot a titan. maybe i should petition that too, it's about as rediculous as this suggestion."
"don't be rediculous, any prober who launches combat drones to gain intelligence on the position of a target is in fact engaging in an indirect form of combat. all other ships are required to be uncloaked when they engage in combat, so should the prober."
"i support this idea as well."
"what about locator agents and passive targeting and ship scanning? they're also in the realm of information combat. here's the thing, in all of these examples, they haven't attacked you. for all you know the prober could leave the system and do nothing with the information obtained.as was pointed out, wait. 30 seconds and then you'll get your chance to kill the prober. let's not forget that by default probes are at a disadvantage while probing because they're on the map view and don't have their full attention on what's going on around them. hence why cov ops got the scanning bonuses."
"locator agents dont pinpoint your exact location, and passive targeters dont cloak. waiting 30 seconds means you have to wait on their terms to fight. if you can probe them down as they probe you then its a more even battlefield, imo. like the second poster in this thread pointed out there are other measures these probers can take to stay somewhat safe, but it gives you a fighting chance to get them at least, and no this wont destroy combat probing."
"i find alot of my targets using just the directional scanner. i suppose that should make me drop out of cloak too then, following your logic offcourse.lolz"
"that doesn't follow my logic since the directional scanner doesn't pinpoint a target's location."
"get out"
"the sames wining about improbable tengu's are now wining because they want to probe free risk.no, that shouldn't even exist since you forced ccp to admit that nothing should be improbable, witch includes covrrt ops, bo's, reccons.difficult yes, impossible no.you wanted it? -you've got it."
"-add the option to easily switch to a first-person view, and have more traditional fps controls in this view. i'd much rather just point the mouse where i want to look than have to drag. this would make me much more comfortable navigating around as i'm al"
"good idea, current movement is very unnatural.ofcourse, faster walking=better walking.with time, not critical.exactly, just make old hangar defaults state after docking, then allow to enter cq from there.i know, right?get us the old hangar back.exactly, get that crap out of my face."
"i think it is fine as it is. hold the left-mouse button and pres \"w\", you will walk in the direction the mouse is pointing.don't run indoors, you'll only break a leg. i think it is fine as it is, looks natural, especially for someone who is coming \"home\". :pit's coming for each race in one of the next patches. they even hinted at being able to customize your quarters in the past, so...they're probably working on it.this a common complaint that is being discussed in thousands of threads. they'll probably add it just to get people to stop complaining. i do agree though, from an rp perspective, it doesn't make sense.i agree...let's hope they fix the inconsistencies.that's because it is and isn't the same thing. it's the same style and layout, but rendered in different ways. to get that docked view, you would have to load up the engine that drives the captain's quarters anyway. i have also noticed that area where your ship is located in the captain's quarters, is the major performance hog of captain's quarters. i get higher fps while looking through the door into the room, than i do looking through the door out towards the ship.it's even more unrealistic to be spinning the ship. if you absolutely need this mini-game, just open a ship or turret preview window.it would be nice, but they already have some pseudo-radio chatter in some station. i wouldn't want too much, unless i can call concord to tell the announcer to keep it down.i think it is fine as it is. my carrier looks absolutely huge from the captain's quarters, yet i can still see the details on my shuttle. :pheh...i would rather they fixed other things, such as the display of isk/aurum in the wallet.----i have given support as some of the op's suggestion and ideas are good, but some need to be tweaked or reconsidered."
"i'd like to see more immersion and functionality in the cq- in particular, the auxilliary monitors that function as a corp and pi button should get their own overviews, like the main monitor.i think i'd like to see the pi panel, when your planets are active, to show up details like time 'till extrator depletion on planets, amounts of stuff you've already got, etc. couple that with a nifty little view of the planets or something and it'd be great.as for the corporate panel, having it show various details like events placed on the corp calander would significantly increase ops exposure for corps, making it easier for their members to spot random ops placed up. wardecs and dec info could be shown, things like that.also, customizable quarters with purchasable furniture would be nice. or normal, in-game items with the option to import them into your quarters, like protitutes, or those sansha head things"
"i'd like to see the aur prices for all items reduced by a factor of 100."
"the most constructive feedback for cq is:turn it off!or you could always leave it on and use the excess heat generated by your gpu to reduce your annual heating bill."
"i have an eye condition that makes it hard for me to focus on lots of things moving in my field of vision at the same time. when i still wanted to play eve and needed to read stuff or deal with lots of chat, i could do that just fine in stations, but not so much anymore. i have disabled station environment at the moment, but i've heard that will be removed later on.i beg you, ccp, please please make some or other option where you can stay in your ship, like the suggestion above, or go into a sleep state or something of this nature that will remove the overload of information and bling and blinks for those of us who cannot play this way as i get extremely nauseated.i appreciate that the new stuff is cool, and it does look nice, and on my good days, i might admire it, but i don't play fps or car games for this very reason, and the having to try to use it won't improve it for me since i have very little dept vision and my eyes can't focus. i love eve though and have for 5 years. i want to keep playing it and be able to make a difference on leadership level of my corporation and alliance, but this is making it really hard for me.please consider a way of fixing it within the frame of the system, i'm fine with it for everyone else, but if cq will be all there is one day, i fear i cannot play the game very well - any means of turning down some info and not having to move around in person would be so deeply appreciated. sleep, go to bathroom to escape, have a wrist watch and just flip to that one, get back into ship and leave it if you want, but not be forced... anything. please."
"- considering the vast wealth of pod pilots, it is rather disappointing that we exit our ship to chill in a broom closet. i hope that will either change or we will have an opportunity to pay for a nicer place to chill. considering our supposed status in t"
"wealth? are you kidding me based on the aurum pricing we're the real paupers in eve i mean a pair of pants cost more than a battleship. support to the op."
"so......i think this entire update is moronic. i don't play this game to play house, i play to get in a spaceship and go kill people. however, this is an issue for elsewhere...#1. why would you even want to have furniture and crap to decorate your cq ? a captain's quarters isn't a perm. living space. its a reserved temporary housing unit for visiting ship's captains. which means it is generic. before someone even mentions it; captains don't carry around their furniture. in my opinion, letting things spin out of control and the more ccp brings to the inside of stations, the less people are going to be in space. maybe most people don't think that is such a bad thing, but like i said, this is a spaceship game !!i will say however, it would make since to have a few different types of generic captain's quarters. having each race if different furniture and walls and the like, would make a lot of since, instead of just the actual dock being race specific. i mean really, does england and china have the same decorative tastes when it comes to furniture and paint ? no. so it would stand to reason that amarr and caldari don't either. also, since this update is here and i have to live with it...corporations should have restricted conference rooms. limited to corp/alliance members only. perhaps based on the alliance or corp size as well. small, medium, or large conference rooms. obviously pl would need a much larger conference room than some corp with 20 people.i really hope that ccp is very limiting or at least extremely cautious with what the are going to allow players to be doing inside station. if you are ever able to kill other players inside station, my accounts will be unsubscribed that very day. i love eve because of the concept of the game. what the focus of eve has always been. lets not go crazy and make this another game entirely. if i wanted to play mass effect, i'd load it up."
"adjusting a dread's siege cycle to 5 minutes seems ok. reduce an industrial core's cycle time to 5 minutes as well while you're at it.shortening siege cycles because of supercarriers seems like treating symptoms instead of the problem's root cause. go after the root cause instead."
"indeed. and one of the problems with supercarriers is that they don't have to commit to a fight but can disengage easily. in fact, looking back, the ability to not have to commit to a fight and to disengage too easily has been at the heart of far too many of eve's problems - everything from stabbabonds, ecm-domis and nanoed everything. a long siege timer is good because it discourages frivolous use and punishes mistakes.changing dreads' siege timer to 5 mins doesn't help when the supercarriers primary you, doesn't address the true problem (supercapitals) and just makes it easier for hostile dreads to escape from you when they should be being punished."
"this would make it pretty much impossible to overcome even just 3 or so triage carriers with a sub cap fleet. it would be extremely easy to drop out of triage and get reps from your triage buddies if you get primaried, and once that happens, you're not breaking unless the other side drops supers...and if they do, you're dead nomatter what."
"changing to a 5 minute timer for siege is something we've been asking for for a while.however, it doesn't need to go shorter than that or its simply stupid."
"but isn't a scarrier supposed to be able to kill a carrier or a dread? i mean, a carrier can off a couple bs (call it 4:1), so it would make sense that a scarrier should be able to accomplish the same ratio against carriers. the problem is that a scarrier can also make mincemeat of 30 hacs or 100 frigates as well. scarriers lack a weak point. they are like deathstars without blatant exhaust ports just asking you to stick two torpedoes down them..."
"the underwhelming response from ccp to take ownership of the very large issue of rmt and botting in eve is a source of great frustration to myself and many players.. articles are produced on a regular basis that discuss the impact of rmt and botting and yet ccp remains quietly passive on addressing the threat. as a player i see the impacts of botting and rmt often and i think many of us do. ie characters that are logged in virtually 24 / 7 - ratting / mining / trading. if botting and rmt continue to grow and in time reach epidemic levels it could very well break the player economy under a flood of illict isk and items. csm please take this matter to ccp and demand answers on how they are fighting the black market economy that is a blight on every legitimate player in the game."
"+1 ban those that rmt / bot. ccp have taken action in the past (unholy rage 6200 accounts banned august 2009) but perhaps those days are long past. i have long been suspicious of the market botting that i suspect goes on in jita. only ccp have the tools t"
"no , we should have built in bots for those works anywaybtw: banning paying customers ... thats totally against ccp's policy"
"while it's true that the railgun tengu sucks, you really should fix the underlying issue of hybrids needing a boost before you start trying to fix them on a ship by ship basis.wait for the hybrid buff, and if it doesn't do enough, bring this up again."
"easy to say to wait for it, those hybrids are need for a boost for at least 3 years by now"
"i'll just say there's a reason why i have 100+ runs of untouched magnetic infusion basin blueprints in wh space"
"yeah, so fix the hybrids instead, fixing all hybrid ships, rather then trying to fix every single hybrid ship one at a time."
"create a new server where all the non-spaceship garbage will go such as dust/incarna/etc. people who want to fly spaceships and do all that garbage can play away from all the normies.keep tranquility as a spaceship game."
"how about just split off in-station crap as a new game.. i don't want to pay for the development of that junk.. i want my money going to fixing the spaceship fighting."
"when you talked about plex to aur conversion i thought you could actually buy some stuff for the amount of aur you get from a plex. now i see that for one plex i barely get a shirt !!! how can that be? 4 frakking fitted armageddons are worth as much as a shirt? lol!i recommend ccp to rebalance aur asap.if i could buy at least 10 items or so for a plex i might even do it, just for the lulz... but i hope people wont forget that theire basically paying 25-30 euros to ccp with every plex they convert to aur. dont forget that you can buy a very real shirt for the same 30 euros (the price of a virtual shirt). please rebalance, ccp! and what now? a completely useless, purely cosmetical, virtual ocular implant is worth 100 euros? i bought a very real leather jacket, 2 shirts and a pullover for the same price just this morning"
"best thing to do (imo) is just not to use this crap"
"my point lol. still, its completely stupid... typical ccp scam"
"the first small, but important feature ccp decided to remove to make our lives better is local fittings storage. after that change we now have ability to store fittings on the server, but only 50 of them. what is good about that decision:- adding the ability to store 50 fits on the server.what is wrong about it:- removing the ability to store infinite amount of fits locally. now every time i want to save new fit, i first need to pick one of my existing fits, preferably the least interesting one, and delete it first, because i have 50 of them already. there are numerous threads on the forum about this issue. the blog post introducing the change stated that we will be able to store fits locally, but thats not the case, at least there aren't any options for it in eve fitting management tool.at the moment we can save fits to personal or corporation database. if we could just get a third option to save them on local machine it would be a perfect solution.second example of a feature ccp decided to delete is the \"fleet loot log export\" option, which allowed you to save your loot log as a file and then parse it with third-party apps/scripts to for example calculate total loot value.there is a forum thread about this issue:"
"please consider adding, not removing our choices. eve population is diverse. there are hardcore pilots with hundreds of saved fits who always use the same pc and will never want to walk in stations. there are also hardcore traders who never leave station, change shirt every 10 minutes and parse exported mission loot logs for their corp (oh wait...)there are also people who do a little bit of everything, and thats cool. if you give us more choices, eve will stay a perfect habitat for all those types. if you try to push us down the pipe, you will get to the point where people will leave because of the changes, even though the content they love is still there, but they just cannot use it the way they always did. you can add stuff while still allowing us to live the old live. some of us have older pcs, some of us have hundreds fits, and some of us found daily use for that obscure feature you have in some dark corner of the eve interface. don't delete features / parts of user experience / choices.thank you : )[not ragequitting yet, not giving out my stuff either]"
"i agree to all you've said rho1. also, my pc is a littler old now, won't be able to log on untill i can swipe the kids laptop or totally replace my desktop, shader 3 unsupported. i hope the corp can survive without their major scientist/producer."
"so i like the way the tv works in cq and shows all that nifty info in a neat little rotation. now...make it so we can sit on the couch and then get an option to fullscreen the tv so it is all we see on the screen. nothing major but thought it might be cool for those boring afk times when i have eve on but am playing something else. even better...maybe use it for stuff like broadcasting the live streams of eve events like the alliance tournament.btw...good job on this expansion and the deployment of it ccp. very nicely done this time. i have experienced very little in bugs or glitches thus far. do this every time!"
"+1 this.i was just sitting in and waiting for a trade and thought the exact same thing as i was watching the screen. would be good to have a fullscreen or zoom option for the tv"
"definetly, because you would think that if someone like a big tournament or super battle was going on, the news would have it on vid, aka your television, would be cool, maybe broadcast faction warfare (ok maybe not, not much exciting stuff there), or at least if there is ever a major battle or war going on that is big enough to get people's attention, broadcast that too."
"the only thing in cq worth mentioning, the tv, also let us choose what we wanna see, example.bounty hunting in this game is worthless, so lemme turn off some random guys bounty poping upi would like to see ships for sale, battles taking place, sovernty changes and quafe commercials."
"unfortunately tvs have never worked like that...i would love to just get local news, disney, scify, discovery, travel, and cartoon network, but no, i have to have all the other junk too. i agree with this though, would be pretty awesome and immersive. maybe even tie it to another service like eve radio, so it's live all the time tv."
"i like the eve radio idea...how about we just have a radio we can turn off and on for that? i thought i heard/saw an advertisement on the tv for a corp looking to recruit.supporting my own thread..."
"serious problem with this proposal is the fact that a pirate could just sit in a noobie system in a very cheap ship popping other noobies all day long. same goes for miners, pirates would simply gank them more and more because the consequences for these actions are not harsh enough to stop them doing soi like the idea of eve being more pvp orientated; but a lot of people dont play it for pvp so yes, they should be protectedlow sec is far worse than npc 0.0 in terms of pirates only engaging with many many more numbers and they also have the ability to pvp with very expensive implants with little to no risk. you have your advantages, take them, or go to npc 0.0having said this... i believe concord should strike once in a while, giving everyone throughout eve a taste of pvp"
"unless i'm mistaken, concord has no spawn delay in a 1.0 system. and frankly it would be a waste of time and effort, pirates pirate for money. civilian shield boosters don't sell that well.why? i mean why do you think pirates will spend money on that?everyone is pvping in eve, it is impossible to avoid.so you wouldn't want the same advantage against the same pirates?that is a bad idea. it will set a precedent for removing concord entirely."
"the post you responded to is not really talking about pirates, but griefers, and there are plenty of them in eve. one of these types hanging out in a starter system ganking new players, until they get to -10 sec status is not beyond imagination.thing is, starter systems are not just populated by newbies ... veteran players pass through starter systems all the time for missions, trade, etc., so the griefing rifter would be popped in short order by someone's t2-fitted missioning ship."
"really... well if this change goes through, i'd definitely check that out and see about hunting some of those 'griefers' in my hound."
"and again, in this game, griefing is bannable. what you consider as greifing verse what the reality is two different things i am afraid."
"explain to me how an outlaw could sit in a noobie system and pop people all day? once you kill one person you receive a gcc which lasts for 15 minutes. who the hell is going to sit in a noobie system, pop an ibis, dock, wait 15 minutes then do it again? nobody."
"i used 'griefer' in its conventional mmo slang meaning, a player who makes virtual attacks against other players mostly for 'tears', i.e. in order to see them complain or argue. the terms of service that it comes closest to violating are: and griefing that stays completely within the game system does not rise to the level of any of the examples the tos cites. as long as griefing does not involve exploiting bugs, real life threats, frivolous petitions, or other similar misconduct, it appears to be permitted by the tos."
"so, if anything, decrease the alpha and keep the rate of fire. but then they wouldn't be 720's would they?720/250 = 2.88 if you haven't calculated that already.here's how it works: big shell, good range, lots of damage, slow reload and fire. small shell, okay damage, fast reload and fire...and no, i'm not trolling you; just pointing that out in case you missed it. doesn't make it right, but needs to be pointed out anyway. rails suck because they shoot super fast and do no damage, wasting ammunition quite quickly while they're at it. artillery has a sweet alpha, but is so.damn.slow."
"pretty dumb discussion thread ... artillery is balanced.you seem to be arguing all guns should do same alpha, dps etc.. dumb.. whent the rebalance of artillery occurred some time back ccp lookedat balancing all elemnts not just alpha strikes.. so the good news is everything is performing as intended.."
"op actually has some merit but it is more due to railguns being pretty sucky and extreme range being bit useless at the moment due to fast probing."
"even without probing artillery owns rails. bcs never fire outside of 150 km.same dps, artillery never caps out, selectable damage type, and huge alpha advantage. what's the downside to artillery?"
"the incredibly slow rate of fire that gives reps plenty of chance to kick in for one thing"
"big picture here is huge alpha on artillery which totally ****s anything without some buffergo figure what's wrongim pretty sure there's plenty of people who think instapopping stuff, even without bonused ship is fine, though."
"false. putting out same dps as rails means at best reps work equally well against both. (artillery puts out more damage over time because it can select damage types and it takes a long time for an insignificant 1% dps advantage to overcome damage from alpha shot - usually longer than it takes for rail to cap out)."
"it takes well over two times the number of rail boats to alpha a target than artillery boats. it should therefore take more than 1.01 as many artillery boats to grind through a buffer tank than rail boats. rails also suck because they run the risk of capping out. and good point about ammo reload taking time away from rail dps for longer fights as well."
"well something has to be best and if artillery is that something then so be it... i dont see it as a point to whine over (and im not neccessarily certain it is the best).. in every class of module in the game there is a best item and a worst item dependant on what you are trying to do. the way artillery works in game now is a feature that makes it distinctive from other weapon types. high alpha slow cycle time and pretty poor tracking its not over powered. if you find yourself dying continuously to artillery vessels then its more than likely pilot error. ie putting yourself in the presence of a hostile gang with poor intel, or a failure to establish transversal, or getting tackled / imobilised or just plain old fail fittings on the vessel u r flying.certainly i do agree galente need some love as the game balance over time has left them deprived in some areas specifically rails, blasters and some of their ships / bonuses. if the intent of the topic was to highlight that then perhaps the topic should have been galente love wanted instead of the omg nerf arty approach."
"there is no downside to artillery compared to rails. edit: for the nitpickers - artillery is better than railguns in 19/20 engagement scenarios."
"imho boost hybrids+hybrid ships first then compare the 3 turret types"
"lasers ans missiles are also better than hybrids in 19/20 engagement scenarios.perhaps, as the above poster already said, the answer is to buff hybrids rather than nerf everything else?"
"1 plex = 3500 aurum3600 aurum = 1 shirt.absolutely absurd."
"agreed...plenty of threads on this already though..."
"agreed. reduce by a factor of 100 should do it. 36 aur for a shirt."
"the aurum market is for the elites in-game and the incredibly stupid in rl."
"so you wont help me decide if i should buy a full fitted machi or an eye implant?thx..."
"how about:36 aur = 1 virtual shirt3600 aur = they send me a real version of that shirtof course, they'd first have to make me a shirt any proud minmatar would wear.none of this gap bullchit.edit: forgot to support"
"if i see anyone in my corp wearing a monacle that doesnt already own a fully fitted carrier, they getting the boot..."
"microtransactions as a whole are fail, but if we are going to have it please keep the prices civilized not this insulting cash grab."
"i agree, prices are crazy."
"what market? there are like eight things to buy and none of them stand out compared to what is available during character creation as for it being expensive: who gives a ****.if you want a haircut you can go to a fancy salon or take a razor to your scalp, only difference is looks .. same as this .. vanity items are for the vain."
"the shirts should be 3500 if the conversion is 1 plex = 3500 au unless they want to just ditch that and allow direct rm to au conversion. i don't want change back in au, that's like getting change back in the form of a gift card when you purchase a car. if there were more items for sale, it would be different, but there would have to be a lot more items to make a \"gift card\" worth having."
"would this be a good time to remind everybody of the selection of clothing etc that used to be available with the old character creator?i think it would. :ccp:"
"gunna be hard considering noone else is going to be seeing it for a long long while :-p"
"any change you make requires a new portrait it seems. i got my quafe shirt and had to switch my portrait if i wanted to put it on."
"thanks gizzniti think you're right that opec's are a very real possibility considering we already have them. it's just much more difficult to organize. on the other hand, market prices would be significantly more stable. in jita .01isk is fairly common, but in the backwaters of amarr people will drop the price by 1k isk or more causing entire item ranges to become poorly traded until everyone gets bored and leaves the market or someone resets it."
"though your idea is sound in practice it would not happen, when people want to sell stuff they either wantit sold now~very soonit sold at a high priceif i see you have an item for 30isk, whats 29.99 isk for the chance to sell first my profit will drop but the cash flow will increasealso, whats a few isk on say, a freighter. i approve of your idea, how thought out it was, your post construction was good, but the idea itself would not give u the desired end result."
"35 bucks buys 2 plex's.that said, the item prices are rediculous indeed but that has nothing to do with this thread."
"1.0"
"1.0"
"honestly eve's a players market. like the prices or not ccp's actions won't destroy the plex market. basic supply and demand will balance out. there are people out there that won't sell plexs on the market because they don't make enough, they climb in price and you'll see them sold. seriously don't assume something you have no way of knowing. watch and see how the market adapts over the next couple months."
"prices for plex its allready to highh 400 milj per 1 now in jita araund that insane was in some months ago 320. if price wil climb up to the 450 than i wil tink about leave the game complitly i not alone on that madure to leave game for this reason. all ready need farm araund 7 hours to get plex, that for one char i have 4 accounts and i need them if i play game if i not play than afcors wil not play them up to, all i closed allready 1 acount. so that makes araund 28 hours off farming if i can play only 3-4 hours per day that makes araund 9 days pure farming, i not play weekends so its wil meke for me araund almost 2 weeks i not counting that i need skil books ships for pvp etc."
"not supported. the purpose of aur was to reduce the stockpiles of plex that were accumulating. the price will even out after some speculations, most likely crash.it'd be nice if the noble store used isk and aur and did serve as an isk sink."
"even if you separate plex from aurum, it won't matter unless you also make it impossible to trade aurum and the stuff bought with it. separating them without doing that will still decrease plex supply since people that want to convert rl cash to isk will have 2 different ways of doing so, some will choose to buy plex to sell, some will choose to buy aurum to sell, so less plex entering the game. short term, it has a pretty significant impact due to speculation and an initial rush by the people that really want this stuff to get it, but long term it will be much smaller when speculation calms down, a secondary market of second hand items has been created and demand has been lowered as most people already have what they want."
"if your pvp fleet cannot deal with the rats on a gate you should probably just go and dock back up"
"errr overview settings perhaps?"
"i guess it would require a bit of gm babysitting... but when you consider that only long-sov holders would have this capability, said gm wouldn't have to worry about having more than 1 or 2 names come across his desk a day, or the occasional 20 from \"we took all of it space in a week\".also, supporting myself :d"
"doubt anyone that has serious knowledge of 0.0 would support such a change. fc's for example rely on names not changing. it reduce the tactical effectiveness of pilots, and to be honest that isn't something we need less of, it's something we need more of."
"+1 and have it displayed on this new cq monitor thing in front of us and i might actually swith cq back on again.. occasionally"
"erm try my already 7 page petition here"
"there are tons of petitions and threads regarding this subject. the vast majority of them call for making cq optional."
"and we do support them all."
"i believe the csm was already actively pushing for this. one of them actually un-subscribed over it not being optional (teatime or something similar?)so don't get your hopes up.found it..teadaze blog"
"+1pi is good example for optional stuff, those who want use it (and make some isk out of it) - those who not have never even try it (like my)"
"now that incarna is out. we have been waiting a long time. time to fix factional warfare. i would say almost everybody in militia can offer a item in militia to be changed/fixed. with logical steps this can be accomplished relativily fast."
"supporting own topic"
"why does ccp hate fw?"
"this looks great and stuff but my computer cant handle the station environment without going into seizures, so...pretty please with sugar on top, can i have my shipview back instead of that door!!! cheers!"
"yep new patch sux balz , turing of station enviroment speads game up again but its a bit dull , ship spining is an art in eve bring it back"
"i have to agree with roonia. nice work on the changes only thing i would like to see back is the ship view when in station, if you have the cq off."
"supported. and bring back ship spinning."
"i agree. there is no counter to nyx fleet except more nyx fleet.this is the uber blunder ccp did with fleet balance. the whole ship class balance and strategic option was destroyed with the supercarriers as they are unkillable en masse. eve is seriously messed up from both a tactical and strategic point of view, balance wise and options wise. its all about moar pilots, moar nyx, moar pilots, moar moar.forgot to mention we had the same problem when we realized that \"moar carriers, moar carriers, moar carriers\" was unkillable as protoss and we came up with the emp + thor!!! so..yah...fix it please."
"there's an official recording of them available."
"there was more than just the one time? i was under the impression you only did one of each. i must have missed the other ones. someone please link me the other fireside chats and spot lights. thanks in advance."
"i've been working for a longass time to get my sec status up from -4.8 to -2.9it's ridiculously difficult for me, and i think i only podded 2 people..the problem imo though is not the sec status gaining method, it's the fact that you get penalized so much for fighting in lowsec? people need to learn to pvp somewhere..."
"i agree. but most people fear that this will eventually lead to mt for non-vanity items and i agree with that.the moment i see a non-vanity item for sale i will end my sub. however, this is not the case right now. i could not care less about 80$ eyepieces, they don't influence my game and i will not buy them. i"
"i agree, i'm not going to get involved w/ items that change game mechanics. i'll be done as well."
"fyitrebor on twitter: 3rd draft of csm summit minutes completed."
"hey you don't like losing ship and cargo go play star trek online, your ship just re spawns there."
"or just change the way mining is conducted. in it's current form it's a hands-off \"activity\" that requires minimal imput from the miner. this is why it's so easy to automate with a bot.have any of you ever played the smartphone game called galaxy on fire 2? it's sort of like playing a watered down single player version of eve, but the mining in that game is fun and engaging. how mining works in that game is when you start mining an asteroid, a target with several ring layers appears along with a drill cursor. the cursor tends to wander off in random directions (the severity of the wander depends on mining drill quality). time ticks down and the target gets smaller and smaller. to continue mining, you have to keep the cursor within the target or the drill breaks. as long as you keep the cursor within the target, your cargo hold continues to fill with ore (i can't find any examples of the mining in this game).it's a great mini game that's fun. i wish ccp would do something similar with mining."
"your idea may be good in theory, but remember that that would require the miner to focus on just that minigame if they iomplemented something similar to that, meaning you couldnt hit multiple roids at once, and any kind fo many game would make the miner unable to respond to npc or player pirates who may pop in to cause some damage, and even if you say they could just \"close out the mini-game\" thats still one more step between them and responding to a threat, so on that note, unles you have to do a minigame to target lock and fire, i dont see it being plausible for a miner to have to do it, simply on the basis that they wouldnt be able to react afst enough tot heir environment while mining."
"apparently you do sir. kthnx bai."
"client side security implementations would remove a lot of botting. software that actually determines what is running on a users equipment to actively and aggressively attack botters.ccp don't care about botting anyway, they give users 3 warnings about it, so that's 2 times ccp don't care. how many warnings do isk sellers get? oh wait none once they get caught they get an unfair ban while botters get to carry on 2 more times."
"eve is a game known for its complexities. in practical terms, if you want to play eve, you login. if you want to play it right, you need evemon, eft, excel/calc, and a group of fellow droogs on a forum.historically, there's been a push to homogenize certain aspects of the game. bandwidth is one particular example where certain ships, such as the myrmidon and the guardian vexor lost a significant part of their utility which absolutely destroyed their functionality. missions have been changed to force pilots to move farther out to get to mission zones, and people complain about the overall power of larger ship classes at the expense of many smaller ship classes.starting with shipsif ccp wanted to homoginize game play further, they'd sell ships pre-fitted with static modules that could be upgraded but never removed, leaving one or two slots that the player could fit. they'd integrate this into the cost of the ship. the market would be preserved by leaving it up to the builder to produce the guns and fitting them onto the ship prior to marketing them, and making it so they could't sell the ship without the weapons in the hold.and this is my proposal!in short, lets revolutionize the market in eve and improve the new player experience. instead of overwhelming players with 6/4/7 slots, lets pre-fill 4 of the six top slots, 3 of the middle slots, and 5 of the low slots. lets pre-load the cargobay with whatever kind of drone the player buys from a drop down \"package\" of options. the market will be preserved by forcing producers to create suitable modules to fit those slots, and the player will still have the option to add additional modules if they see fit (a variation on this idea will fill all the slots in advance, but \"de-power\" the lower module).if a player wants to use a named variant, they simply buy that module and install it over the original module. if they are using that module when they die, the cost gets added to the insurance payout. this has to be decided when insurance is taken out on the ship, however; changes invalidate the insurance.this will also eliminate the situation where a player feels \"stuck\" in a station after returning to eve after a long time.cynos for everybody!giving every lower-class ship access to a 1ly cyno that has an hour-long cool down aggression timer would also compel players to travel more freely at the expense of caution. since they're hot for an hour, they have to take extra care to survive in their destination system. if a fleet hotdrops on another, the target fleet could simply jump out, but they'd be within 1 ly of the original fleet, so it would effectively force the two fleets into a fight (and chances are that if it's a target fleet, they're looking to fight). this 1ly jump could happen inside of empire, but shouldn't happen from 0.0 into empire, or vice-versa.don't bring your guns around here unless you plan to use them!the battle bridgewith the new walking-in-closets feature introduced with incarna, i was thinking that having a quick way to see your ship from inside the ship would be popular. since we're all capsuleers, this would appear as a static grey round room that we're suspended inside and unable to move. we'd see wires and tubes, but maybe also lifebar indicators for our ship, using the slick new ui technology ccp's given us. we can see our ship's pew-pew before the go poo-poo. if you bought the monicle, it could be in red/cyan 3d to add immersion (if they add coloured monicles & i can be like sollux captor!).more ideas?that's two ideas that i've got that are designed to homogenize pvp in eve. remember: the idea is to create situations where all of the ships are given a pre-determined selection of fitting options to make teh game more enjoyable for newer players and to force fight-or-flight fleet mechanics. i'm sure someone can improve my own ideas, or propose some great new ways of making eve universally more entertaining."
"might make it more enjoyable for new players...but i suspect all the old players would leave."
"okay, incursion 1.0 is out and doing well. the new interface system is awesome. i never thought station spinning could get better in game. i had an idea watching the news stream. what if we could have our own media playing on the main screen? imagine watching a tv-stream or anime without having to hop out of eve or use a second screen.taking this idea one step further, what about tv channels that are player run and supported. we could have eve sitcoms, training courses, all sorts of things. it seems like the infrastructure is mostly there already, it just needs a push. the future is now, and i want it on tv!"
"yeah wouldbe cool to be able host something like eve-news every one h or something like that... as well as run something in .avi or other \"basic\" video from own disk."
"some sort of eve radio where users could create some sort of radio show based on current eve events. a radio show that would be looking for dj's right now not only to play music but to host news shows about eve onlinewe could even put it on the domain www.eve-radio.com, dam it's already taken!"
"seriously...you sound like a you know what denier!''so what it's just a pile of old shoes, jackets, shirts, hats, gold teeth, bones, passports and omg they actually are bots!''."
"what makes you think that they don't?"
"agreed we shouldn't have to scour the internet to find information, and the location of any additional information (podcasts) should be referenced in one location (these forums."
"the csm has a clearly defined purpose as set forth by ccp. that purpose is to provide csm with feedback to in-house ideas. this interaction with ccp is protected by a non-disclosure agreement which has real-life ramifications should it be breached.the csm serves at the pleasure of ccp. the csm can be dissolved at any time.the csm is not a rebel group fighting for the ideas and rights of the player base. it exists to serve a function on behalf of ccp, not on behalf of the player base.the release of minutes for public review is a courtesy; it is neither a right, nor a privilege, nor an obligation. the only reason it is done at all is out of the goodness of the individual csm members' hearts and of ccp staff.stop complaining that your free hand-out sometimes doesn't occur in a timely manner."
"this couldn't be more wrong if you'd tried. what you are describing are beta testers. csm are *representatives* of the player base whose function is to provide their constituency with a voice as ccp stakeholders."
"i propose that the csm officially adopt charlie the unicorn as the departmental mascot, and that all correspondence between ccp and the csm occur entirely in classical latin written on official charlie the unicorn letterhead. i believe that this change in policy will accomplish two positive things: oint the first, the inclusion of charlie the unicorn as the official mascot to be featured on correspondence letterhead will promote an atmosphere of lighthearted fancy tempered with cautious pessimism which should work to frame all ideas in the appropriate perspective suitable towards the construction of an even better eve online; point the second, the transition into classical latin as the official medium for correspondence will aid in decreasing the amount of ambiguity which sometimes accompanies official correspondence. it is my belief that these changes will promote a happier player base and a clearer message on behalf of ccp and the csm, so that all participants of the social contract shall become better aware of all situations. this is especially important when one considers that i just has a chocolate ice cream cone and it was delicious."
"yo dawg! i've heard that you like to pirate so we've put a pirate tracker into you pirate rifter, so you could pirate while you pirate.------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------sincerely yours, \"pimp my flight!\""
"well, at least they can't possibly do any worse than previous csms *cough*larkonis*mazz*vuk lau*ankh*cough*"
"pulling this one out for one reason - i came across \"botting\" issues a week or so ago and it still sticks in my head.someone was talking about this batch of bots operating in a system - they reported it. i flew out to see this for myself because i generally don't spend much time poking around highsec mining areas any more.i get out there, find a batch of ships mining, i sent a tell to one of them and waited a bit. a couple minutes later, i get a reply back so i chatted with the guy. \"some f****** jerk-... saying i run bots again?\" guy was afk mining with multiple accounts but was being reported a lot for botting.it makes me wonder how many *real* bots are being run versus multiple-accounts being run by players who do things like afk mining.understand i don't doubt for a minute that botting isn't an issue nor that it's happening but when i chat with someone who's a bit ticked-off because their multiple-accounts are always being seen as bots... it kind of begs the question on how many assume every group of ships afk mining are bots so scream \"bots everywhere!!!\""
"i'm certain i've given my +1 to this thread before and i will do it again, because this is far too important for ccp to continue to ignore. maybe they will (for once) admit to their nonsense, and do something about it instead of writing a devblog and ignoring everything we've screamed about."
"come on, ccp. people will still play just as much (maybe more) if you do this."
"personally i really want the navy comet to have the gfpd logo on the side again, yno make it more 'police like'."
"checking out the new store and an in-game shirt should cost (imo) like 1-2$ max. right now it costs the same as a real shirt.if they sell, great. ccp can roll around in their rl money and laugh. if they don't sell maybe reduce them to a price that is second-lifeish. where i am actually tempted to pony up a few hundred million isk for a new outfit. or a monocle. or some boots...are there really fanbois who will pay that much?"
"tell eve marketing to bend over and kiss their own ass. post pictures of them doing it, and then i might possibly forgive them for this monstrosity."
"security:- ceo and directors have full access to all functions at the pos.- corp members have access to a pos only if their \"based at\" property is set to the location of where the pos is. if \"based at\" is not assigned, access to all corp poss is granted.- members are given a role based on what stations are at each pos.- - ie: if research stations are present, giving a role for \"research access\" would grant access to the research stations. this would grant all access to all functions at the research station.- - ie: if \"corp hangar\" role is granted, access to a public corp, and private hangar within the corp hangar would be granted.etc- any station which could store items would be private to that toon.- ceo and directors are the only ones that can have anything to do with a tower.- feed the pos via corp hangar or a fuel bay, or even a special type of silo. the tower itself would have its own fuel bay but filled \"optimally\" by the external silo. this way if your fuel technician runs off with the fuel, the pos would still have fuel to function. ability to set what percentage levels the tower should maintain would be great, and notification when the levels can't be maintained daily would be ideal.- api to report what is available in the external fuel bays and include the location of the fuel bay.- each pos can only have one external fuel bay.- corp hangar would have a tab for public corp access, and another tab for private use. m3 shared amongst all users.- only ceo would have access to to all personal tabs to clear things out in case a user leaves the corp and forgets to remove items.- in case of role removal while items are still present at the pos, the toon would be able to remove their property from their own hangars, but could not place anything in. equivalent to a \"take only\" permission."
"something i would like to see is the removal of all science&industry in stations. in the same change, allow pos owners to make some of their installations public, and charge a fee (equipment assembly array, mobile laboratory, etc).a change would be necessary to the way materials required for production are handled, you would have to be able to store the materials in station, as pos owners won't want people flying up to their arrays and putting **** in from there.this change will make the hisec pos a much more important place than the \"place to put personal labs\" function it has now."
"**** mcro transactions"
"no"
"no"
"no no nomight have voted for cosmetic only but cant trust ccp not to screw it up."
"no.was ccp purchased?"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"with the way things are. no"
"noi don't give a **** if people want look like the monopoly guy or have hello kitty plastered on their internet space ships, but allowing people to buy everything with rl money will destroy eve. all industrial chars will be out of jobs, all mission/complex/exploration runners looking for those nifty deadspace/faction/officer mods and salvage required for invention will be out of jobs and become obsolete. the market will become flooded with mostly useless trash. and anyone going \"you ****ing carebear, pvp like real eve player!\" where do you think all those shiny ships come from? ccp doesn't seed any of it. it's all player created. mt will turn eve into sto."
"no"
"cosmetic only (but fix the prices)"
"cosmetic only (lower the prices)"
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only (and even then at reasonable prices)"
"no"
"no"
"no."
"no"
"noccp quotation: taken from:"
"no.no.no no no."
"no"
"no.initially, i was going to say cosmetic only, but after reading the purported internal document from ccp detailing the views of certain devs (and a certain lead dev), my view has changed since they have no clue how to handle even swag-driven mt (like how ncsoft handles it with cox and gw). if they hired some of the people that helped ncsoft to start theirs, i would say cosmetic only, but again they haven't so i have to say no."
"no"
"no"
"no."
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"after leaked document i am chaning my vote to none at all.it is just slippery slope."
"no"
"no"
"noooooo"
"no"
"no"
"no !!!"
"no"
"no."
"no i've loyally payed my $15 every month all the while wondering if it's really worth paying retail price monthly to play the same game, the idea that in the future i might have to pay the sub plus money to do this plus money to do that really offends me. it makes me wonder if ccp considers us to be customers or consumers."
"no."
"cosmetic only."
"no"
"nomt will ruin this game, not increase ccps revenue."
"no"
"no."
"no"
"no"
"i already voted no so this is just a reason for ccp not to.from a monetary view mt seems a great prospect for ccp, but as players we hate that ****.micro transactions are bad not only for players but also for ccp.lets say eve has at minimum 100k subscribers. i estimate at least (if ccp is lucky) 15+% will quit if mt is introduced.ccp loses $225,000 a month ($2.7 million a year) to implement micro transactions. not everyone will buy these items (most of the remaining players won't)even if people do buy aurum it is a one time purchase not a monthly purchase.mt will result in a net loss for ccp.from a buisness standpoint and gaming standpoint mt for items that give in game bonuses suck"
"no"
"no."
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only 100%.. if ccp wishes to charge outrageous amounts of rl money for idiotic ship paintjobs or even the monocle.. they can. idkif they start implementing any changes to the system that go outside this vanity set then i can not stand by that. plex for remap is too far in my opinion.. and it shouldn't be allowed. we do not play a f2p game where they need to bring in the mt income because its how they keep the servers up.. nor do i really want to have mt in place so you can fund your next projects. i am playing eve because i love.. eve."
"no, remove the existing ones and fire the person who came up with this ******ed idea."
"the money they save from that could replace mt revenue. win-win"
"no **** micro transactions in eve!!"
"noi can approve cosmetic only."
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"no.cosmetic only would be disappointing, but i would still play."
"no.i used to be ok with vanity items, but seeing the prices of those and the how much ccp is taking the ****, i say remove mt completely. no vanity items. we pay a subscription, that should cover everything available in game."
"i say no to all except cosmetic only items!!!i do want to say there is another post with a great suggestion regarding these items. some items should be outrageously priced as they are vanity items. the value of vanity items lying in the fact that only a few can afford them.but there should be more items that are affordable so all pilots can enjoy them. for example, the monocle should be expensive. i plan to purchase one and would prefer that less than a hundred or so others had it. what good is vanity if everyone has one? right now, it's a rolls royce. people are suggesting it become a hundai. i say no to that.clothes however should be affordable to everyone. jewlery pershaps should have a range. some affordable, some other unique pieces, more expensive."
"cosmetic only"
"no!"
"no"
"[cosmetic only]"
"[cosmetic only] and nothing more then $10 !!! ffs look at valve's tf2 and learn from them!"
"no"
"i'm going to self quote here (because it's the best phrasing i've come up with) and then go on to explain in a wall of text now that i know ccp is watching this thread.i don't like the vanity items, i think it introduces a completely unnecessary element to the game. i actually like cq, more specifically, it's meh in it's current form, but i like where it's headed, i want to walk in stations. not because i'll be doing a lot of it, i'm a pvp nullsec player, but i love scifi games, and i love the idea of a completely scifi world where i could walk around my ship, etc. the new nex market (i think that's the name of it) doesn't add anything though except money to ccp's wallet. you really want a market for stuff like that make it player run, and items are destroyed if your capsule is. that would add something to the walking in stations experience imo.however, even in it's current form i say whatever. it's like i say above, i may not want to pay for a bright pink fairway, but if others do, then so be it. it's a completely different story if you start talking about paying, or being paid, to hold sov, get faction standings, or store more ship fittings (something that we were originally able to do). i think the community has a right to be outraged by it, especially when you previously told us this wouldn't happen and the players expressly said they didn't want it. now you are getting some really bad press coverage over it and a lot of players say they are leaving, i guess only you know if they really are with your metrics. basically, we told you so when we voted against all of that mt business. you had a great vision for this game, total scifi and player run economy. i'm not marketing expert, so i don't know how this mt business will turn out, i'll say it like i've said before though, i don't want to go in this direction with you, and it seems other players don't either. with the bad press, i don't think new players will want to follow either."
"no!"
"no"
"no!"
"cosmetic only. don't want to deprive anyone of a chance to wear an overpriced dress."
"yesi do not care if a week old noob buys 200 million skill points and a titan.i do not care if somebody has 3 monocles in their face and a golden cowboy hat.i do not care if the scorpion i just killed has a different paint job than others.i do not care if people remap their attributes with every skill change.what ever they do, they will not have an advantage over me, merely be up to equal within less time, and does not change my game play in any way what so ever.a ccp with more money is an eve with more/better hardware/devs/features/fixes."
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"although i doubted him, t'amber was right.a belated 'no' here."
"cosmetic only."
"no"
"no"
"vanity items only please, nothing else. better yet no micro-transactions beyond plex at all, but i'm realistic, so vanity only at least."
"buying a titan cuts out the titan builder in eve and effect \"their\" gameplay tremendously. this is why this should only be for cosmetic stuff."
"no"
"this is assuming that they'll be able to buy a titan that was never built with in-game resources. which i believe they already agreed was a bad idea when rolling back the \"free scorpion\" deal.edit: they want to make more money of their game, which is the opposite of destroying it. what ever game hurting issues arise will be dealt with and balanced. change is good. ccp is good. props to them for sticking with this space game vision for so many years while all other competitors, both lasting and fleeting, have had much higher player/subscription numbers."
"no."
"no."
"no. that's my preference.but i guess it's ok for cosmetic only, because then i can tell who the douchebags are."
"no"
"nocosmetic could perhaps be added, but it would open the door to the mostdreadfull thing a game can see coming : microtransactioni have seen to many free mmorpg going very bad with micro transaction (and not protecting them from any black market)i have seen how startrek online has gone bad with micro transaction (and stopped playing it the very moment they started adding ships in the market)i have seen how voyage century online has sunk into the worst nightmare of game with fully open transaction (and how it got litterly highjacked by people with too much wallet and no brains + the high number of game hack and stolen account)i have seen how battlestar galactica is turning in a nightmare where you have to pay real monney to be able to compete in battles (again too much wallet, with no brain players)actualy the only game that has micro transaction that i support is lotro.but they are not making it a nuisance to the game, and withouttrouble like pvp in every possible ways, and very controlled areas,most of the players who enjoy lotro will mostly pay monthly suband enjoy the whole of the game instead of just buying it part by part.i'm ultra feed up with 99% of the transaction ideas.eve online has been the best game until now because of the very way the dev kept up withgiving good material, and not letting themselves in the greedy way most of the other company had let themselves go.actualy if ccp realy need a boost in money, i am more than ok with a little upgrade of thesubscription. i would much prefer to pay a couple dollars more each months(even if that make 25 to 40 dollars more a year) and avoid completely microtransaction in the game.but one thing is sure, the day a microtransaction is set in eve that get further than the vanity cosmeticon the incarna parts, i will cancel both my annual account subscription. and i will surely go furtherby asking a reimbursement from the month of the micro transaction insertion to the end of my subscription period.they can count on that.and i'm not voting for my friends who plays, but they are thinking like me about the microtransaction issues.eve with micro transaction = no more subscription and stop playing eve."
"no."
"noand noand no!"
"no"
"nosir, thank you for your efforts.this is what the csm is supposed to be for"
"no"
"no"
"no!!!"
"no."
"it is understandable that ccp wants the users to appreciate the new features the company as a whole was working on for the last few years. it is a huge accomplishment that every single character in new eden now have the ability to move out of the pod and walk on his/her own feet, for the first time in eve history. however, by forcing the users to abandon the previous \"ship spinning\" hangar in favor of the captain's quarters, ccp has already cost one of the main goals of introducing cq in the first place; immersion.immersion, simply put, is an emotional state achieved by interacting with a virtual world that consistently makes sense. immersion is a fragile emotional state that can be broken by any number of things that does not, or feels like it does not, make any sense. the lore and events that take place within the world should coincide with previously established lore and events without stretching the logical progression. events that are deemed physically impossible must be prevented from taking place at all. maintaining immersion is a difficult task, but it is a task ccp has performed remarkably well... until now.then, what does not make sense about the cq?it does not make sense for a capsuleer, who is always protected by shields and armor plates even when inside a pod, to willingly get reduced to an \"easily replacable, carbon based, piece of meat,\" every time s/he docks up to a station to get more ammo or switch to another ship. this directly contradicts ccp's own stance in 2009, as shown in this [fanfast footage].it does not make sense for a capsuleer, always submerged in ectoplasm while in space, to get out of the ship in a pod, open the pod, jump out of the pod, climb up the stairs, wash out the ectoplasm, and perfectly suit up in less than 5 seconds after the ship is towed to the docking bay.it does not make sense for a capsuleer inside the cq, clearly outside of the ship, to receive a message that s/he can't use jump clones because s/he is still inside a ship.all these seemingly minor issues stand out as glaring inconsistencies that hurt the immersion, rendering the captain's quarters as nothing more than a replacement to the previous \"ship spinning\" ship hangar, and the full body avatars as nothing more than wasd-controlled puppets (something the new target player base has already encountered countless times before).then, how can this disastrous situation be salvaged?my answer basically a four-step process:1. bring the old \"ship spinning\" hangar back. make this hangar the default environment when docking a ship. allow jump clone usage only when user is in pod and in the \"ship spinning\" hangar.2. add station service buttons that is used for entering/exiting the cq.3. add a cutscene that depicts the capsuleer being ejected from the pod. play the \"ejection\" cutscene when the player is entering the cq, while loading the cq environment at the same time. utilize preexisting art assets!4. add another cutscene that depicts the capsuleer being inserted to the pod. this cutscene will be played while the original station environment is being loaded and the cq resources are being offloaded. edit: both cutscenes can be skipped, in case the user will be redirected to a loading screen that has more in-character messages, such as \"readjusting sensory input,\" etc, similar to the intro movie. (and some typos fixed)once this is done, the station environment will look like this:(link:"
"1.0"
"agreed the current immersion makes no sense."
"-1.0"
"why is it that ccp has so little self-confidence? they always feel they have to stuff new features down our throats instead of making them optional. i certainly do want the hangar back. wis might be a nice feature for some but not for me (i'm not alone with that, am i?). i know, the game evolves etc. but if ccp keeps forcing me to like their new features simply because i can not get around them then our ways will part sooner than later.i could get around that new pve content called \"incursion\" by not participating in it. why can't i just toggle that buggy walking in stations expansion?regards, lax"
"+1i fully support this (cut scenes should be optional though) makes much more sense and allows incarna to actually be immersive."
"+1ccp please give us back ship spinning option, i don't want to look at my avatar all day. ships look alot nicer."
"indeed. although eve has hardly been immersive before now with ships magidocking and the entire session change system being basically a pop up message box."
"+1current implementation of cq aims to increase immersion and fails miserably because of this immersion breaking issue. completely at odds with backstory.i could easily accept it with no cutscenes, give that there are none when docking/undocking or changi"
"me wants"
"thank you everyone for your support.the cutscenes i am proposing serve two purposes. to add a reasonable time buffer during the transition between the hangar and cq, and to explain how capsuleers are different from the humanoid avatars of other mmos. once the user knows what it means to be a capsuleer, it would be cumbersome to watch the same cutscene every time s/he gets into the cq. so the cutscenes should be optional.in order to accomodate those who choose to skip the cutscenes, the loading screen must be revamped as well. the current \"loading\" message is uninspiring and out of character (i.e. you don't \"load\" the environment when you get outside), so the screen should show messages that makes sense in-game, such as \"decontamination in process\" \"adjusting to sensory input\" \"injecting muscular stimulants\" and so forth. add the sound of flushing out the ectoplasm (and give the sound department actually some stuff to do) to give some more fluff. the end result will be a million times better than that obstinate \"loading\" message.i support myself, as usual."
"i could care less about the eve lore, i incarna, and all mt should be restricted to wis and incarna, which should have no impact on he game itself.eve and incarna are 2 differnt things, one is internet space ships, the other is a laggy piece of fluff that should be optional at all times"
"well slap me in the face with a stabber and call me a fedo,a thread about cq with an actual logical and fully fledged alternative to the current mess.sir, i applaud you for not exploding like a faulty piece of cheap nuclear xl ammuntion in the storage bay of a shuttle; bravo!i must support it!/signed"
"1.0"
"+1minus the cutscenes, or have them optional. i'm fine with a loading screen. or even better, they put marginal effort into the undock/switch ship text that tells you scotty the docking manager isn't ready yet. extend that to the loading screens, pop a me"
"supportednot that it will do much good, ccp doesnt care what we think. i wonder if they will care if they lose all there subscribers?"
"+1 great write up op"
"1.0"
"this thread makes me sad now."
"i approve."
"supported"
"great idea dierdra, fully support the intent of this post."
"/signed and supportedi will be holding my breath for the old ship hangar option to come back... i pray i wont have to hold it too long...ccp, is anyone home?"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"mt's can burn"
"supported"
"/signed you would think they would have thought of this."
"/signed"
"i signed up for a spaceship game i don't give a **** about the barbie online in spacestations.i want the old hangar view back and the cq made optional as it was initialy promised by ccp."
"dont want, dont need, didnt ask for, never will use wis."
"i entirely support this but do you really think ccp cares about what we as the customers think? if they did they would have listened to the test server feedback, to them we are just a bunch of idiots who dont know what we are talking about. honestly this is the worst customer service of any mmo i have ever played..."
"x"
"supported.this is a ui backslide. no longer can you double-click for cargohold or drag and drop for ship changing.i've never messed with the test server before so i never know much of what to expect with the upcoming expansions. i assumed that the way it would be is old station environment when you dock and you can select \"leave ship\" to allow you to go to your cq. this is a major immersion problem. captains don't leave a ship every time it's docked if you're just dropping cargo."
"i like cq, but i want to be in my ship while it is active. i think cq should be an option when you dock with your ship in old shipview, example: you can select \"enter cq\" as a right click menu option."
"yes please!!!"
"it has to be optional, period.most of the players are old enough to choose what they do and do not want.regards, lax"
"please change it that we can decide whether we want cq or the old hangar."
"1.0"
"supported.button/switch ?its not the same to have a flat screen with the same claustrophobic picture/sight as cq himself.make the screen changeable or the old station scene...please.and bring back -> shipspinning."
"1.0"
"support"
"supported (biggest thumb)"
"i support this because since the patch its no longer possible to use two clients at the same timepls. solve this bug (ahh feature)"
"i signed the other larger thread, just hitting this one to cover my bases...ship spinning forever!!!!"
"/signed"
"supported"
"yes, please!"
"supported. cq ruins my immersion and gameplay in general."
"/signedgive us a button to change between the old hangar (shipspinning 4ever) an cq"
"/signed, all that could be said has been"
"seriously- design and gameplay team devs, what the ****? i hope this extended period of silence with no pr means ccp is going to make it up to us with a speech jean d'arc would be proud of- oh wait... i forgot, she too was burnt at the stake. /signed"
"well at least don't remove the ability to not load station env"
"not a cq hater but as someone who runs 2 clients this is needed."
"1.0"
"has to be optional, at least until they code it properly to stop it frying a large percentage of the userbase's pc's. the idea is good, but yet again its a beta version thrown onto tq due to deadlines. screw deadlines, get it right or dont bother.+1"
"1.0"
"i like cq, looks very nice, but it has to be optional. give us our old hangar view back. \"old hangar mode\" -> \"leave pod\" -> \"avatar mode\".supported."
"1.0"
"1.0"
"i run multiple accounts and mandatory cq is inherently flawed and just creates extra problems with no net gain.with the current setup my comp has to load cq for every toon i have or i have to stare at that stupid pic (i have heard that this \"stupid pic\" option is only temporary). the hanger view was removed which is annoying in and of itself and we were forced into the cq with all toons. even if i want to use cq and walking in stations i should be able to choose which toon gets out of thier ship and let the others stay docked up and save my system resources. does ccp think that i am going to move around station with all my toons like some pop star and his posse??the old hanger screen was useful or interacting with your ship and removing it is just detrimental. there is no need to have to load cq if i have to dock for ammo or to grab a mission!there is no need to have to load cq on all my toons if i am only ever going to walk around with one account at a time ! forced cq is a horrible idea ! give back the hanger view !give a button to go to cq ! !"
"/signed"
"signed. what a trash direction they are taking eve. at least they aren't breaking the part of eve that is in space..."
"since my gpu is overheating using the cq, and the option disabling it didn<U+FFFD>t allow to us the old hangar view (ship spin)i support this, thumbs up."
"get rid of cqs or at least give me the option to unpod, which i still doubt i'll want to unless i'm spending hours in station. otherwise leave me in my ship inside the old docking bay, so i can tell at a glance wtf i'm flying, please.incarna's cqs run far, far worse than even five year old 3d games, and what's even more appalling is those five year old games look much better than cqs!!!incarna isn't even beta quality yet, and ccp is forcing it down our throats, and punishing us with a bare metal wall if we don't want to load it. what fantasyland are ccp living in that they think this is acceptable behaviour?"
"+ 1 forced decant to grab some ammo or switch a module is beyond stupid.optional decant makes in-game sense and would make many players very much more happy, especially those running multiple clients. and it will not upset anybody who is excited about the"
"i prefer the hangar view."
"for now, i see cq as pointless, and have disabled it, but now i miss seeing my ship...i agree cq needs a hanger view first (like pre incarna) then a \"de-pod\" button to enter the cq.in other words.../signed"
"so many of the problems that people have with cq is the mandatory walking in stations. switch it to optional and about 90% of the winers/complainers are happy (other problems are that strip miners look tiny now and you cant really hear them and the fact that all turrets look similar (all the same color scheme)).seriously ccp, fix those three things and you have an expansion that i can support.just to reiterate, here are the three things1. make the old station/cq view optional (ie. you can switch between them, seriously, the software is already written for the old station view)2. make mining lasers have sound throughout the process/make the effects similar to the old ones3. make the turrets a little different. please, dont give them all a dark grey color scheme, give them different colors, say projectile gets a brown color, lasers get a golden color, and hybrids get a grey color (hint, you can use the same models, those look great, just change the color scheme).just to make this seem like it matters, about 95% of my corporation have turned incarna off after viewing it for 5-10 minutes. the other 5% turned it off after a half hour."
"+1 for changing ****ty icons, having the option to disembark, trashing the crappy noble exchange, and at least making the weapons look decent.(frig weaps more impressive than 1400mm howitzers) if you were reading your own tripe ccp you would've realised t"
"/signedwant my ship spinning days back, cq totally sux - also most useless expansion ever."
"although i have 50-60 fps with both clients on, turned off the cq after 10 minutes. please, make it optional."
"/signedgive us a button to change between the old hangar (shipspinning 4ever) an cq"
"/signedgive us a button to change between the old hangar (shipspinning 4ever) an cq"
"x as a pod pilot i would like to stay in my pod tvym!"
"/signedgive us a button to change between the old hangar (shipspinning 4ever) an cq"
"i wish for more options instead of restrictions.since the current form of incarna makes my poor machine sound like it's about to die, even on low settings. the door wallpaper is currently the best form of incarna for me."
"/signedcurrent cq or blank wall are both awful options. return the old ship hanger! make cq optional. not optional as in cq or useless stupid giant fu of a blank wall. but optional in that we still have access to a decent ship hanger where we can see at a glance what we're flying, and right click on the displayed ship to do stuff with it."
"check these options out for 5 suggestions"
"supported for gameplay and immersion reasons. i like having cq but there has to be a reason to leave your pod.enter cq button from hangar view is needed."
"original station hanger with option to leave and enter captains quarters or option to automatically go to captains quarters."
"albeit it doesn't matter anymore, since the incarna-dismissers already get quite literally shown the door (i'd still like to know, if this is the most epic freudian slip ever or pure and cheap and totally nonsublime trolling)./support."
"forced cq breaks immersion.supported."
"i want my hangar :("
"/signed. incarna is a sad excuse for an expansion, especially one so hyped up.what could have been."
"signed. give me my ship spinning. and to anyone complaining about rp or immersion, stop being a whiny man-child."
"1.0"
"1.0"
"supported."
"1.0"
"good idea - or at least make aurum a different tab in the wallet i never have to click on..."
"why would a secondary currency used for vanity items only be highlighted and made to appear more important than normal isk? sort it out."
"supporting this and the return of the larger wallet balance numbers when you hover over the wallet."
"1.0"
"that pesky \"0 aur\" makes reading my isk balance more difficult. supported."
"at the very least get rid of the ridiculous turquoise. i know why it's that color, but that doesn't make it any less obnoxious."
"the option to hide it or another tab that i can ignore would be perfect.isk is the only pretend currency i need to be informed about."
"1.0"
"+1 i wish i had seen the thread on yes/no to microtransactions previously i would have voted no"
"first thing i noticed upon opening my wallet. i really don't need to look at a zero balance for the rest of my eve career, since i'll never be using aurum."
"1.0"
"1.0"
"agree"
"this. i use a program called loot calculator, that requires those files to run."
"yeeessssssss!!!! going insane!"
"supported, not because i use it but because ccp doesnt care about the players just themselves.i mean on one of the topics they said they didnt like it so that was why they removed it, screw the players as long they are happy right?"
"please bring this back...as far as i can see there was no reason what so ever to remove this from the game other than and obvious move to try to force players into pvp because pve had now become such a hassle. i dissaprove and it has kept me from creating more accounts, yes ccp you are losing money from me because of this."
"i would like to see the loot log brought back also!"
"i agree this is just basic tools the game should have in it by default. i dont see the need to remove it at all."
"i agree, bring it back ccp"
"i am yes for these stuff"
"1.0"
"as it stands, after customising your character and going to the portrait screen your character maintains the previous position, lighting and background as it had previously. therefore creating a new portrait is as simple as pressing done. so the only real cost to this is that you have to press one more button.the downside to the change would be that people could buy vanity items, make a new portrait with them, then sell the items off but keep the portrait."
"it's not as easy as pressing done, since you have to rearrange camera zoom and tilt levels.fully supported."
"i laugh a bit about this. i didn't see anything being discussed on the char creator being launched to change your pants with cq on the test forums yet it was one of the first things i noticed.hopefully they'll fix that mirror part to let you change outfits - without having to load the char creator and take a new portrait."
"i've changed my portrait a bunch of times, never had to move camera or change zoom levels. it's always exactly where i left it previously."
"final release on sisi forgot your pose every time, however...when you change your outfit/hairstyle/makeup your char looks different... whether in the same pose or not.if you carefully constructed the look you wanted in your portrait, why should you be forced to change it because you changed clothes in incarna...it is literally like being asked to create a new passport photo/drivers licence every time you got out of bed in the morning and got dressed, so it showed what you were wearing today..."
"support +1forgot to suggest this in the feedback thread--the thought came up a couple hours after i posted there. thanks for bringing it up again"
"supported"
"supported"
"the release on tq remember.if your such a fan of your carefully constructed appearance, then why change it?as i said earlier the main reason it needs to work this way is for vanity items, you should not be able to keep the benefits of purchased vanity items after you have sold them."
"makes sense. supported."
"i shouldn't have to change my portrait because i put a different shirt on."
"am i the only one who dislikes that hotkeys, for example opening your wallet (alt+w), only works to acutally open it. to me, it would be alot more convenient (and i would actually use the hotkeys) if you could close the wallet with the same hotkey instead of clicking the tiny cross at the top right corner."
"supported, would be nice"
"how this slipped passed me is a mystery. supported."
"up to the top!"
"the issue of pvp being focused more on groups of 20+ players (blobs, depending on your definition) is the current norm. these groups are currently getting bigger and bigger as eve's subscription base blooms. i want to propose a mechanic that will make small 2-8 people based \"corp groups\" a reality once again. i propose that all lowsec and 0.0 gates have capacitor. this capacitor will recharge at a steady rate, costing a certain amount of cap per jump, possibly based on mass. the higher the lowsec security, the faster this cap recharges or the more cap their is. 0.0 capacitor would be able to jump lets say 10-12 people through without interruption all at once but the recharge would be fairly slow compared to lowsec systems. capacitor recharge can be upgraded via the sov system. by now your probably saying \"but khutulu, how are we going to have blob fights, epic 1600 man battles, that sort of thing?\" well like everything else, cap can be transferred to these gates giving existing logi chains something to do while traveling, making it harder to move massive amounts of people, and balancing out the overpowered status of attackers in the sov game. i know there are a lot of lacking details but i guarantee that promoting the kind of combat eve was founded on, the concept of grabbing 4-8 of your buddies and getting some equal fights, is going to draw in a lot more people than space barbies/fubared monocles. i am aware there may be more pressing issues but a return to this kind of mentality would be a great one, allowing lag to be diminished and splitting up engagement zones instead of everyone pile on the supercap bundle and unleash fire. jump bridges would defiantly have to be looked at to balance them with this proposed gate mechanic change."
"an intriguing idea...perhaps with some fatal flaw, but right now i can't think of one. it seems worth investigating. supported."
"eve24news article threadif it is real (ccp has yet to deny it or lock the threadnaught) ccp just killed eve as we all knew it....* i personally hope it is a fake but one of the csm remembers seeing it at the last csm meeting. said csm member cannot confirm what was in the newsletter as he/she did not memorize it."
"pretty much what it says in the topic. i think it would be a nice thing to have, just like the monocle."
"i approve this proposal, do it, do it now!"
"they need to rename it from \"monocle\" to \"scary ass hole in the head\" first."
"monocle overlords support this message."
"you get to show it off in your portrait, if your worried people won't see it just do one of these:<---------"
"i approve of this message."
"why does everyone hate this idea?it took me 21 min's to make a 16 jump destination by doing the point and click method, which is good. but your so busy you don't have time to do anything in transit except click the gate,click warp to[target], and click the jump button, rinse, repeat, fall asleep. on auto pilot it took me 50 min's to make the same jump, which is way more time than needed to cruse the forums, chat in corp/fleet etc, check the market etc. etc.(that's what i do on auto pilot)the real thing that gets me is on autopilot i'm vulnerable to even starter ships for 30 min's in that particular jump, that means anyone can just gank my stuff and there's nothing i can do, if one could learn to keep the time exposed down during travel time this would act as a defense for passive transit ships, and increase productivity. that would mean that gate campers would have to be fitted for the task and not just be there w/ a civilian laser and take your slow @$$ ship out, cause most shields won't last more than 0.5-2 min's max against a player character.no they would have to be fitted for it, knock you out of warp and then jump you. i wouldn't even mind being podded so much as long as someone had to work for it, as long as i gave them a run for there money. but as is, it's too unfair and it doesn't make sense. i mean if you really had a transport ship, i mean in real life, wouldn't you figure out how to make your autopilot the most efficient it can be? i mean time is money, and are there to gank you.i mean it just makes sense to have it both from a meta point of view as well as in game. p.s. i wrote this in autopilot and i'm only 9 jumps in on the same run and i type @ 15 wpm"
"by the way everyone who reads this thread? this is what ulysses thinks [09:20:30] ulysses ryan > pvp is for kids who don't have jobs"
"travel macros already do exactly what you're proposing, without the sp sink."
"wait, is this a proposal to nerf manual wtz (requiring skills to get it back like they did with trade) or add wtz to autopilot? either way, not supported."
"this will be a simple vote, a companion to the other crowd source here as to player endorsement of microtransactions. simply saying no to ccp is not enough, and will likely lead to them doing it anyways, unless we can demonstrate that there is popular support behind an alternative solution to the revenue question.vote yes as the first word in your reply if you would be willing to pay an increased subscription fee, if it meant preventing microtransactions from obtaining a foothold in eve online.vote no if you would never pay an increased subscription fee for eve online under any circumstance.vote micro if you would prefer to see micro transactions for vanity items only (clothing, ship skins, etc).vote allow if you would be satisfied with the implementation of micro transactions for vanity items as well as other items or services with gameplay value (extra fitting saves, actual ship purchases, skillpoints for aur, standings for aur).i will tally results and post here, in roughly another 24 hours once people have had time to edit their results. feel free to suggest what you would be willing to pay in this thread, which is for discussing this proposal."
"yesin the range of ~20 p.m.only if they keep the mt-stuff vanity only."
"yes...provided it didn't cost as much as that monocle."
"yes"
"yesand also take a look at this thread in the ideas section,"
"yes"
"yes"
"yes"
"yes."
"yes"
"yes"
"yes"
"yes"
"yes"
"micro - if someone wants to pay for a pair of pants, who am i to tell them no. i don't care what kind of pretty new shiny they add that can be obtained by micro transactions as long as it has no in-game impact (purely cosmetic). eve already forces us to use multiple accounts in a way that no other mmo requires. if we didn't have to have a separate account for cynos, supers, and normal ships, i wouldn't have a problem with paying a bit more for my subscription. but, right now, just to use the stuff i have in game requires over $40 a month. that's already a rather high monthly subscription. if they touch the subscription price, i'd better see an enormous improvement in game play to go with it. the higher the monthly cost gets for tools required to be in null, the stronger the incentive to use bots in null becomes."
"microas bad as the current prices are, you do not have to buy them, and are given 0 zero advantage to having them.yes they should be cheaperyes its absurd that a monocle in game is $80but face it if person a wants to try and be cool, let him its like buying a tournament ship isnt it? epeen.as long as the mt are kept to incarna wis and wis is completely optional, its fine the way it isno i would not pay more the $15 to play eve, its hardly worth that much"
"yes"
"yes"
"yesyes(that's 1 yes for each of my accounts)*edit*thanks for making this poll to try to give ccp some real factual numbers on community feedback"
"no. if ccp wants to hang micro transactions over our heads as a way to charge us more subscription fees, im not playing ball. ill speak with my wallet and give their competitor money."
"no, but mostly because it's would stop new player from trying the game. when you know the game, paying more his not a big deal, but most people will not try a game who overcharge."
"no"
"yes"
"microi'm fully open to paying more if needed, but i would prefer to have to not. i mean if people want to look pretty that can, but i don't want to. but if worse comes to worse, yea i would pay more to play."
"your missing some of the replies point...your can blows them up = agro timer = they dock and get some faction bs that your hulk will instapop against....they undock and warp to you or their wreck...you blow up...they feel great because you feel crappy...such is life in eve..."
"true but still the basic ida is good."
"a 50% chance concord will spawn and take out the stealer gets my vte. no aggro and you still get to see them go poof."
"good one, hadn't thot of that, but would that work in lower sec space???"
"you mine in lolsec? where? i'll come over and keep you company.he wouldn't be going after your can if its in lowsec."
"i don't mine in low sec, i just thot that beccia had a grate idea with concord, but wouldn't work in low sec sins well... its low sec. but for high sec i think beccias idea works beter then a bomb can. unless when it blows up it would not cause agro to its oner."
"i like the idea, it could be as simple as jettisoning an \"item\" that can be made with pi or purchased. (dynamite) lets say.if you jettison it (the dynamite), it is a can that wont implode for 30min to an hour or something.if you open it - it blows up on you.if someone else opens it, it blows up on them.but i like the initial idea."
"1.0"
"dont say that, what if they do start giving awesome abilities? and then, because only people who fork over money for it can win in pvp, more people buy it, prompting ccp to make more game-breakers, dont even jokingly hint at non-aesthetic noble exchange stuff."
"how many real quality monocle could you get? oh wait, you wouldn't want one."
"when people have cybernetic optical implants, is there really any point to a monacle?"
"perfect price for decorative vanity item that is supposed to make your character look more unique.as a bonus, the high price keeps demand for vanity items down, limiting their effect on the game and, more importantly, limiting their effect on the price of plex."
"a fully fit carrier or dread of your choice?a faction fit t3?a fully fit machariel?"
"wtb contract: one fully fit machariel with faction tank. will pay one (1) monocle*edit: the above was meant as a joke. i am not paying a monocle for anything a si am not daft enough to spend that much isk or rl money to get one."
"that's the beauty of eve, you get to pick :)"
"for that much, the monocle had better do something like give me +7 perception so at least its not totally useless.oh wait, nobody wants rmt to affect gameplay. welp."
"you could almost buy a faction apoc model."
"or a faction mega, having said that if you're the kind of idiot that would buy the faction mega with that terrible color scheme, then you're probably exactly the kind of idiot that would buy a space monocle at the advertised price."
"ive bought both :o painted both to pure black&pink"
"well if you buy your plex with isk then if you consider the exchange rate based on the testserver prices (which i thought were resonable) 1 - 3 aur per item then: if 1 plex, costs 390mil then 1 aur is 125,806.45isk per unit (in the real world that is still a very expensive pair of shoes, but i would be happier paying that ). even at 100aur per item it is still more reasonable.as many people have stated the current system is just stupid, as it stands it is only open to idiots with too much isk or $. i might have supported this new currency if it had stayed at the test server prices, but it will be a very long time before i might consider getting anything, if at all. ccp would have depleted any of the excess plex better if they had lowered pricing as more people would have bought them to buy cool new stuff, it is a shame as the items on the exchange on the test server were very good, and would have opened up the market with a new commodity instead it will now be slow and possibly a waste of effort."
"their called vanity items for a reason. prices are just fine as they are. just right to put most of the population off of buying them.the best part, if you don't want to buy vanity items, then it doesn\"t effect you in any way shape or form!!"
"but what if we do want to buy them, but don't want to spend more on a monacle than we would on a carrier? or a skirt for more than the price of a faction battleship?"
"what if i want a titan, but i don't want to do what's needed to get one?simple answer, i can't"
"if they can sell 100 monicles for $60 (12,000 aur) they make $6,000if they can sell 100,000 monicles for $0.60 (120 aur) they make $60,000considering each subscriber can have 3 chars per account... and many have multiple accounts... they can still make more real money selling for less to more people."
"so quite clearly their primary goal is to add unique and rare vanity items to the game and not simply to make as much cash as possible. if the were just after maximum cash they would have made them cheaper."
"the point is that it's paid dlc ,and as such $60 is way too much for an in-game bit of clothing that does nothing other than take up space in your virtual wardrobe. $60 is the price of many a full priced game. heck most of my actual clothing costs less than that!the point of paid dlc is to raise money for the dev/publisher. the best way to do that is through micro-transactions.sell low and sell lots... $60 is not a micro transaction it's not far from being the price of a full game. people (sencible people) are simply not gonna pay that and the store stagnates and ccp loose a potentially good revenue stream. if they boost the plex-aur conversion rate by a factor of 10 and so you get 35,000 aur for one plex that would put the monicle at $6 and that nice skirt for $1.8 which is much more realistic, and will generate many more sales and more revenue than leaving the convertion rate at 1-3500. at $6 and $1.8 that is cheap enough for people to not care about the purchace and buy more than they normally would. at $60 and $18 people are gonna laugh and walk away.seriously someone at ccp has either lost the plot big time or is having a joke!"
"there in lies the problem, if they are cheap enough that people would \"not care about the purchace and buy more\" you have a lot more people who will be willing to buy plex with isk to convert to aurem. that would cause the value of plex to go through the roof and deflate the value of isk screwing up the rest of the games economy.if you look at the in game economic ramifications of the aurum prices, this is the smartest move ccp could make."
"another part of the problem is that there just isn't anything in the damned store, so it has to cost a lot or people will get bored of it very rapidly. i am hoping (perhaps in vain) that once more content makes it into the store, either the prices will drop, or the exchange rate will adjust (or perhaps a combination of both).as it is right now, ccp has made two fundamental mistakes:1) they released the store without enough items to support continuous interest and long term purchases, and 2) the items they did include are priced so high that most people will walk away, thus cutting off some of the interest they would have generated even accounting for number 1.as it is, i'm not about to spend that much money (rl or virtual) on \"cool factor\". i'd much rather buy a dozen hurricanes to pew pew."
"they are called vanity items for a reason. they cost money & don't really do anything for you.it's not like you're being forced to buy it or anything."
"hi. i'd like to propose a few new, related, items for the incarna backlog.they are related to the hangar.firstly, i used to be able to drag a ship from the 'ships' window into the hangar to make it active, now the only way seems to be to use the right-click menu. is it possible to restore similar functionality to what we had before?secondly, it would be really cool if, once a new ship is made active, for the old one to be moved out of view and the new active one to move into view. currently, they just fade out and the new one fades in. i'm sure there won't be any timing issues since you have to wait for the session timer anyway after changing ships.thirdly, i can't spin the ship! can we have it just spin slowly, automatically? i's like to see all sides of it.lastly, there is a pod at the bottom of the stairs, but there is an invisible wall blocking me from walking down. invisible walls are just bad design. also i'd like to see the pod up close. why not put the un-dock button down stairs?"
"i must apologize, it seems the ships do spin, just very slowly.can we make it a bit faster?"
"so it's been about 48 hours since the release of incarna and here's what i'm seeing. i used to play eve and still play on my laptop system along with my custom built desktop. when incursion came out i could no longer use my laptop for dual boxing. now that incarna is operational i can no longer use my laptop at all as the video card crashes. i know of a fair number of other people who have this issue now as well, not being able to navigate in the \"captain's quarters\", open bp's, or smoothly move through different windows that used to be effortless or the game just plain locks up. the thing that bothers me the most is that all this \"stuff\" is not needed to play the game. if i had my way i'd disable the captain's quarters. you may not be having trouble now but remember that this is just the first base layer of code being added. as the incarna expansion is fleshed out, more people are going to have problems with this as more layers of code are added. it will begin to seriously interfere with game play and to what benefit is it? eventually the only two choices will be to quit playing eve or build/buy new hardware or complete systems.so who benefits from this? nvidia, intel, ccp technology partners. yeah it looks really cool if you haven't been touched yet but that's all just window dressing and i don't need anymore \"social interaction\" if i was looking for that i'd be on facebook, retch!!!i came to eve to play internet spaceships not walk around in a virtual static environment that i could just as well get with the simms. i like the new turrets and i'm sure there will be other positives that will make their demands on computing power but will lend themselves to the core focus of the game. so far this isn't one of them and i for one am not happy about it."
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images.uncheck this box.edit: this image was taken on a year-old, $350 netbook. incarna works on it at the settings shown."
"in the wake of prolifieration of supercaps and the obsolete dreads, i have figured out an idea to fix the issue. capital smartbombs.15km radius900 damage of whatever damage type20 second cycle time.siege module will give bonuses to smartbombs:100% bonus to radius625% bonus to smartbomb damage.this will require capital energy pulse weapons skill that requires energy pulse weapons to level 5 in order to train and will reduce cycle time by 5% each level. energy pulse weapons skill will not affect capital smartbombs.this weapon will give the aoe weapon that eve needs in replacement of the doomsday change. supercarriers will have a more difficult time destroying dreadnoughts, but dreads will mostly likely not be able to destroy a supercarrier when only fit for using smartbombs.dreadnoughts will have a role in managing blobs while keeping the ability to destroy structures when refitted."
"**** no. this game was even worse with aoe doomsdays, lets not go back to that era ever again."
"that's great but i wasn't quoting you now was i ?"
"it doesn't matter tbh. logic is logic, if it's correct logic than it all points to the same results/conclusions."
"how about some constructive suggestions regarding captain's quarters?rollback"
"constructive?lower the graphical quality by 50% and use the dev and art effort saved on the maniacal detail to do the following: * if you're going for immersion, give us bars, stores, the whole nine yards. not some day. now. * support lots of characters at the same time in one place. this is more important than anything else. jita should be a riot of people all the time - loud, crowded, inconvenient. if it's technically unfeasible, then abandon incarna. * eve voice for ambient sound in public spaces. silence in station is just as ridiculous as sounds in space."
"i don't think \"run\" is necessary, but i do think the walking speed should be increased slightly.customisable screens!"
"all valid, all good"
"my post was constructiveit clearly stated what i would like to see and what i would not like to see concerning captain's quarters, as well as further inter-station development. i'm not really sure why people are so excited about removing eve from space and bringing it into a station. as of yet, i have found the load time upon docking completely inconvenient. if there is going to be this awful loading time, then i think ccp needs to consider removing the countdown timer to get into another ship. as it stands right now, it takes me twice as long to load into a station than it used to and i still have to wait for the timer. which effectively doubles the time it takes to switch from one ship to another."
"i mostly support the op.a couple notes: my cyclone should not look half the size of my chimera, likewise my hawk shouldn't appear taller.give us a jump function - i so want to jump onto my couch from the raised platform behind it.allow me to law down on the bed.make hanger view have other random ships off in the background. for example a minnie station might have a few rifters, canes, a bs or two, and a fenrir in the background (various races will have racial equivalents) - presumably from the various traders/pilots docked in station. change the pi screen to be more customizable for example i would like if it: listed time till completion on my planets, a list of who else is docked in station, and maybe a scrolling list of my ship inventory - just a thought."
"im really liking cq as well. great job ccp!the op hit a lot of things that came to my mind:-it would be nice if the apartments were a little larger and a control inside them that you could turn the lights up or down with. when im walking around i would like it to be lighter or if im messing around with displays then it would be a little darker. also to maximize my area of view i started minimizing the station service window. coming out of the character customization window it always goes back to the default settings. if you have a window minimized i wish the client would remember that. also as the op mentioned having a first person view would be great.-on the main tv screen in cq you should be able to switch channels rather than waiting for the transition. for the agent finder tablet on the desk make that multipurpose, include people & places, email and contracts as well. the science window should also be incorporated with the pi screen. the new corporation search window is very nice. it would be welcome to see the same thing for alliances looking to recruit.-i know a few others spoke about it but id like to have my avatar picture and current likeness separated. if you just want to change clothes you should have the option of just saving your new look and leaving without updating the portrait. -a lot of time is wasted in the transition when you dock. i certainly dont have an apartment at every station i dock at. ill often dock just to pick up/ drop off an item or to swap out ships. i think when you dock you should go to the old hangar view then in the right click menu indicate you want to enter cq. i think this would make a lot of people happy. it could bring back ship spinning and if someone doesnt want to experience cq then have the old environment instead.-the balcony view is real cool but im all alone. amarr stations have the small transportation vehicle traffic in the back ground and so often a vehicle buzzes your ship. id like to see some type of activity in all the stations. random ships docked in the hangar with you, maybe a maintenance team working on a ship in the background. someone loading/ unloading a freighter. also the singing in amarr stations should go away, hangars should sound like what you would expect and have so ambient sounds in the background.-i dont know if it was the intent of the expansion to do away with the warp effect or if its a glitch in the expansion but id like it back.thats it off the top of my head. thanks again."
"1. give us the option to stop the ship from spinning outside the docking ramp, better yet bring the ship closer and let us zoom out further so we can really see how big that ship is compared to our little bodies!! like in ambulation video from 2007.2. more clothing options that dont cost a fortune, again note how in ambulation video you saw cloth options based on cultural lines like the amarr and caldari etc.3. streamline how you control your avatar. so we can use the qwes keys to move them around easily."
"this was what i was hoping to see when i docked. after years of development... we have a broom closet that requires more clicking to do everything we used to do. i have high hopes for incarna. i'm just worried that there won't be any iteration for it like many of the other cool concepts that have been introduced and never touched again.ships should have a gangplank/walkway coming from near the player out to the ship if only to give perspective.from the backstory stuff and my general memory of scifi movies/games/tv, i expected an attendant to be standing there when i exit the ship, maybe a hologram of aura. someone i can right click on and access different menus quickly, reducing my time commitment for accomplishing tasks, like an assistant."
"whilst i wouldn't necessarily disagree with the 5 min siege cycle being reasonable, i wouldn't call a massive reduction in scan resolution and tracking whilst being immobile \"almost no drawback\".imho, scan res and especially tracking need to be tweaked (especially tracking, so you don't get speedtanked by supercarriers)."
"simple solution:supers must seige to launcher fighter bombers. 10 minute timer."
"remove supercarriers give back motherships"
"bump.. for more input / support.. this is a serious issue that devalues everything a legitimate eula abiding player does in eve.. a simple google search for eve bot produces an extensive list of suppliers seeking to destroy the game. eve bot, macro suite, tiny miner, roid ripper, npc hunter, stealth miner, evebot, etc..ccp must have the capability to infiltrate these botting programs, to analyse their footprint in the ccp server logs, then perform a raw data pull using the footprint asa filter to catch out offenders. a quick investigation of each case should then highlight if botting has occurred ie players that never log out out or that perform tasks endlessly in same click patterns, or that manage 20+ trades with perfect precision for hours on end, etc. hold ccp accountable for shutting down rmt.. support this topic please."
"the trouble isnt finding them and banning them. its how getting rid of all of them will affect the market. if you take out all of the botters who just mine all day you lose those cheap minerals and with that demand will rise with no supply. rifters will cost 20 mil. and drakes will be over 100 mil."
"total bsif mineral prices were that high ppl would actually go out for mining instead of running missionsbtw ccp should introduce new high end ore with plenty of trit etc."
"thats pretty wishful thinking. i highly doubt a few thousand people will start mining 23/7 just because mineral prices go up. sure more people will start because of potential profit, but it wont make up for the loss. however a new mineral with high yields isnt a terrible idea for a potential fix."
"it would bring balance back to the game, in the form of decreasing the huge construction projects due to financial constraints (ie supers). a small increase in the price of tritanium is a much bigger deal with those than with a battleship. edit: support."
"where is our powerful railgun's roman!!!"
"the main screen is by far the best feature in incarna, which doesn't say much about the contents of this particular expansion. having to stare at a still picture because captain's quarter needs twice the resources used by the old client is arguably the worst.loading up the main screen on top of the background picture would go a long way towards making logging in for a quick chat, checking mails or simply keeping eve running in case something interesting happens more enjoyable than it is currently. right now being in a station simply makes me wonder why i'm logging in at all."
"until recently, there were three major exploits affecting risk/reward ratio in pve:1) unscannable setups2) stealth bomber/any-other-ship-with-cloak l5 farming3) distance control vs npcs using 'leash'1st method was based on the broken scanning mechanics which allowed you to be invulnerable to scan, thus ignoring anyone's attempts to probe you down and kill, which is major safety benefit in lowsec and 0.0. was fixed in recent patch by placing hard cap on scan size (scanstr/sigrad ratio), which now cannot be lower ~1.1:2nd method was based on npcs which didn't aggress you when you decloaked within their 'awareness' radius. they aggressed you when you aggressed them though. while it triggered aggression from npc ships, npc turrets eithet stayed calm at all or 1 of them would start attacking you (and it's not a problem at all if one cruise missile sentry attacks stealth bomber). absence of additional neuting/dps from sentries made level 5 farming cakewalk in absolute majority of the cases. also, i've seen other guys using cloak to avoid sentry aggro on other ships - like ishtar. was fixed by forcing npcs to aggress anyone who decloaked in their awareness radius:3rd method is based by pulling npcs from their originating location to enough distance, so they start to return, fly some distance back, then notice that you're attacking them, try to engage you again, hit max engage distance wall, rinse, repeat. this method is usable in multiple cases, but primary 'broken' area - dreadnought wh c6 farming. while sieged dreadnoughts can't move, they have attack range long enough too keep npcs on a leash. use something to pull sleepers away from anomaly, make spot for dreadnoughts, siege, enjoy your farm safe from any npc damage/neuts. and yes, it wasn't fixed.i'm not telling how it can be fixed (although i have few ideas), i'm just telling that it's one of the exploits which makes farming easy even for single person with several accounts. as c6 sites are intended to be run in well-organized group (like incursion sites), such approach to farming enables more people to run them with less characters and less real people, reducing income of real corps specialized on this.if you know more exploits which affect income balancing - feel free to share."
"if they make incarna a whole new game then that would mean even more of \"your\" money would be spent on it than now, either way \"your\" money is being spent on incarna. incarna and spaceships are run by the same company, or had you forgotten?"
"complain complain complain"
"your money is being spent on dust. coming... soon... to playstation."
"to the op...stfu and gtfo of eve if you don't like it. quit *****ing and whining about ccp improving the game to entice more people to play. your ignorance in the matter is astounding. shut your face and play or gtfo. adapt or die.that \"garbage\" is what keeps eve from falling behind all the other mmo's out there. if you don't think so...then as i stated...you are simply ignorant to the issue. the \"normies\" as you call them are actually the people that enjoy things like incarna. you...are the minority./rage post"
"hahaha bieber fever lol you fail."
"why talk like that.. are you trying to say that \"my\" money isn't really \"mine\"?"
"they are not improving it , just add eyecandies for lesser pplhow does this keep eve from falling behing?? this is an adult space mmo or supposed to be, atm it has no competitors, other than some dumbed down arcade shooti shootisthis only make is similar to other mmos,good luck to compete with 30+5/year other mmos now, i bet no eve player will see them as alternatives ....check out star trek online it has both space and land battles + huge fan base and still failed hard, i bet subs are less than 50kjust check out the mmo market,there is wow and 2-3 (mostly asian crap) others with good subs then there is the forgotten rest, do you realy want eve to just be like those?oh and btw why eve needs more subs anyway ? current numbers should be more than enoughimho incarna is a byproduct of dust anyway"
"you gave your money to ccp, it's no longer your money, it's their money and they can spend it how they see fit.eve is not just a spaceship game. from the very beginning ccp has talked about eve as a full sci-fi simulator, they started out with the spaceship part and now they are adding more. this is what eve was always intended to be."
"there, fixed it for yah. if you don't understand how this whole incarna thing works then i'm really sorry for you, and frankly surprised you can even play eve.1) the incarna graphics engine is not being designed for eve. its being designed for world of darkness, you know that other mmo that ccp is working on, the one that they are probably being payed large sums of money by white wolf to develop. yeah, thats right, someone else is paying them to develop the engine. we're not paying for it, they didn't have to give it to us. but they are, accept the gift and stop *****ing.2) sure you don't care about barbies in space, thats fine, alot of people don't and your entitled too your opinion on that. but heres the thing, alot of us do care about it. and on top of that this will help bring alot more exposure and players to the game. and do you really think that none of these \"second life in space\" players are going to start flying around? hell even if its as simple as getting from station a to station b because thats where their friends are roleplaying that day its still another pilot in space. lets be conservative with our estimates here and say 90% of the \"people who want that garbage\" never undock or play with the space aspect of it. and lets say that this new system brings in... 5000 new players (a rather small estimate in my opinion) that still means 500 new pilots in space, and 500 more people for your bitter ass to shoot at.tldr, shut up harden up and get on with it, this is something we're getting for free that can only help the game out in the long run, if you don't like the new station mechanics don't use them, if even thats not enough then leave."
"but you gotta admit, its a fancy pancy shirt, eh? but yeah seriously, i'd rather buy the shirt for real for that price instead of virtual"
"1.0"
"i liked watching those live feeds of random places in eve (jita undock, a sleeper site in wh space, chribbas veldnaught) during fanfest. some of them were quite pleasant, even the ones where there was nothing happening."
"did the csm get told about the price range ccp was looking at for vanity items?it's not the price as much as thinking thye didn't have to tell us that bothers me.and more so, if they didn't tellthe csm...seriously someone from csm tell me they were told so i can gain a little bit of sanity back."
"the csm was not told anything about the price range. check the blogs of trebor and seleene."
"becouse the csm has not done so.here are the links to the csm blogs published so far."
"actually, many of us have posted in the various threads here on eve-o as well as on fhc or kugu. we don't currently have any sort of official response, as we are still talking to each other and ccp."
"it makes me wonder if ccp is intentionally spiralling eve into the nearest public toilet. the aur store prices are insane, and that's been discussed to death. i understand that people consider eve a hobby -- i do! -- and will pay a little out of proportion for things. but when you get down to it, why would i drop $70 for plex to buy a monacle, when i could turn it into isk and either make more isk or more fun? and i'm someone, as seleene says about herself, that can more than afford to do it. that puts me probably better off than most eve players, and i still won't fall for this crap. it boggles my mind how ccp thought this was a good idea. we already have plex that are directly convertable into isk. you can then use that isk to buy ships or whatever else. you might as well just sell the objects in isk, but then it would be ridiculously obvious that the prices make no sense. so, ccp, why not do this? make more ships and modules. make those have to be manufactured. people will do it. and they will sell them on the market. with more variety, the volume of the market will increase. industrialists will be in higher demand as there are now more things to produce with all their little quirks. people also have a tendency to buy things and keep them in their hangers (how many millions in ships do you have hanging around that you've forgotten about?). so this would, strangely, actually be an isk sink of sorts.the only thing that i can figure regarding the aur and nex system is that they thought that they were going to pull thousands of plex out of the economy, therefore increasing the isk cost of a plex, and therefore increasing the number of people who convert gtcs to plex and sell them.seriously, ccp, just admit defeat, roll back this crap a few days after deployment, and raise the subscription rate $1 a month."
"hey, i've only had game a month, and i'd quit, personally, the game is all about learning, you learn what to put on your bship to counter what, if you can only \"upgrade\" statically fit guns, then that would pigeon-hole alot of ships into certain roles, and would make even more ships useless, because always once pigeon-holed, one ship will do better in that tactic then another and will always be chosen."
"there will certainly be issues of metagaming, but the reality is that they can't pick and choose who will be affected by certain regional developments. that is, they can't pick which gates affect which players, and having such a system in effect will force players to carefully decide on which options benefit them bestif you divide the reagions into smaller segments, such as constellations as proposed, that will split the vote up further creating an environment where people either collaborate better, or suffer. perhaps this can be gauged on the economic and traffic performance of the region - if it invites more players and/or creates a more vibrant economy in that area, they get an incarna clothing item - mayorial top hat as their golden watch for the success of their term in shaping eve. if they perform poorly, they can't wear shoes (since there's coal inside of them). i don't think people want to be stuck as shoeless joes roaming around their eve closet!i like that people are warming up to the idea and i think that with the next expansion, this idea could really gain traction. lets keep it up, everypony!"
"i agree with akita,that said, the incarna concept is not what is the most demoralizing part of this patch for me, it's the presence of micro-transactions, and even more so, the plans of selling ships etc directly that was in the newsletter."
"supported"
"the teir system for t1 frigates, cruisers, and battlecruisers sucks.galente need help.caldari hybrids need help.missiles don't seem balanced. some are good, some are awful. capitals don't seem balanced. particularly dreads seem to have been totally left behind.the dramiel kills frig combat diversity. angel ships seem iffy on balance.the onieros needs help.information warfare gang mods aren't very useful. self repair bonuses translate poorly to fleets of more than 3-5ish people. less than 3-5 people feels like too small a niche. the best solution feels like having that bonus apply to inbound or outbound rr because increasing the size of the bonus doesn't seem reasonable.allowing slaves but not crystals to work for capitals seems biased and unreasonable. sc buffer tank and a crystal carrier doesn't sound particularly broken given the nature of capital combat."
"crazy idea, but hear me throughchange the +5%/+10% variant ores to +25%/+50% for 0.0 ores, +33%/+100% for low-sec ores, and +100%/+200% for high sec ores.what this means (before mineral price changes come into effect, that will be discussed later)in high sec, players still can expect about 100 isk/m3 for their ores, no significant changes (the 5/10% variants are gone)in low sec, the high sec ores will be present but in a 100% increased yield variety, as well as the low sec ores in a 33% increased yield variety.the high sec ores present will yield about 200 isk/m3, and the low sec ores (currently about 150isk/m3) will be 33% higher, or 200 isk/m3 as well. add some risk, double your isk...in 0.0, the high sec ores are present in a 200% increased yield variety, the low sec ores in a 100% increased yield variety, and the current 0.0 ores are increased by 50%. this will mean that high sec ores will be about 300 isk/m3, low sec ores about 300 isk/m3, and 0.0 ores (average at 200 isk/m3... the balance issue of spodumain and dark ochre is a whole new problem) will get a 50% buff to 300 isk/m3.obviously some ore redistribution issues would need to be addressed, but this will help with nullsec independence, because nullsec miners will mine low-end minerals. i'd be willing to bet that it's not the zydrine/megacyte that's being shipped from jita to 0.0, it's the trit.some problems this will create however, is an abundance of low-end minerals in high sec, as the market demand will drop, dropping prices with it. a solution to this is to increase the mineral demand from ammunition, especially battleship and smaller ammunition. reason being, ammunition would soak up more of the low-end minerals and leave the high end minerals alone, and increase the overall high-sec mineral demand to partially compensate for the 0.0 exports.furthermore, the idea of owning a 0.0 system for a smaller industrial alliance would be significantly more attractive given the massive increase (3x) in profits possible, encouraging more smaller players in 0.0. even if it is not a very low true-sec system, the 0.0 environment will be more desirable.since i deal mostly in t1/capital ship production, i can't speak for the t2 modules and related issues in terms of logistics, but a few more manufacturing lines (perhaps 1-2 additional lines for every station) would be almost necessary, to compensate for the increased industrial activity in 0.0. perhaps also an opportunity to have datacores \"uploaded\" to wherever you happen to be located, instead of only at the agent's base. that could help t2 production in 0.0 and reduce jita dependence. as it is now, either you go to jita for the t2 module, or for the stuff to invent the mod and the materials to build it. both need to be accessible in 0.0 to make things practical."
"dunnu if this is too old, but i would like to see centralized storage. putting the right items in each factory is a time consuming pita"
"hangar divisions in smas. simple change that goes a long way toward preventing ship theft in w-space.more control over security. there is effectively only one role that can be used to give players extra access to modules at your pos above full corp access. this is the starbase fuel tech and it also allows access to your fuel bay which might not be what you want. let's have some more roles that can be assigned to module security settings so directors have better control over who can do what.alliance dropbox. the cha settings are horrid when it comes to setting up a space for sharing items at the alliance level. last week i had to click a stupid warning dialog 50 times while dropping minerals from gscs into my orca into a cha belonging to another corp in the alliance.repackaging at a pos. my orca can hold nearly 50 gscs. if i'm in a station i can just drag them all to the station hangar, repackage, and stack. at a pos i have to access each one at a time to get to the contents. enough to drive me insane."
"no"
"no"
"no!"
"cosmetic only, but would prefer no"
"noas long as it's just vanity items i can live with it but would prefer see it gone."
"nooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo oh did i mention nooooooooooooooooooooooooooo !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!"
"no."
"nowe are not all rich snobs brought up to spend money on useless drivel that costs more than 3 months of play time.insane randomnessedit: i can handle cosmetic only. however, if any rich snobs come up and say \"i'm better than you, cause i have a shiny monocle.\" let me introduce you to my favorite faction battleship, the machariel, which i saved for isk by isk and can wipe that monocle off your face."
"no."
"cosmetic onlyi believe in give and get. ccp is a company and obviously wants to perk up that bottom line with this mt stuff. and there are people in game that want it and will buy because they can. more importantly for ccp, it will bring in more potential subscribers for the long haul. ccp gets!now ccp needs to give. give us all the damn fixes in the game we've been wanting for a loooooooooooooooooooooooooooong time now. and preferably before the end of this year at that!"
"cosmetic only.actually cosmetic. as in does not matter.****ed i shall be if i hear more about buying sp or standings with this ****"
"cosmetics only.you start introducing items that benefits players in game that is not just cosmetic you ruin the sandbox. you ruin the sandbox and me and my plastic shovel are going to find somewhere else to play."
"no"
"nodevopment/art time needs to be focused on what makes eve awesome, blowing spaceships up, not dress up games, or worse, pay to win games."
"no.i don't want to have 4 years of skills and character development undone and passed up by a 14 year old kid in his one day old piwate armed with his mom's credit card and the titan he just bought in a microtransaction."
"no."
"no."
"no"
"frell no ."
"no!"
"no.cosmetic only if it cannot be avoided. (and only if it is under $5 per item.)"
"noremove the aurum store.if aur items begin to affect gameplay. i will be leaving eve."
"no"
"no"
"no"
"nodouble post*"
"noanyone feel the urge to grief the hell out of those microtransaction supporters.at first i really didn't care but they just cant stop buy clothing can they, anything beyond clothing and i will get terribly mad.that said, i refuse to spend aurum on anything and hell i want a bar/casino.i am convinced ccp is misjudging what impact this has. and it is purely out of greed"
"no"
"no."
"no"
"no to microtransactions!"
"cosmetic only."
"no. mts are normally in place of a subscriptions fee, not in addition to one."
"no.no microransactions (an surely not for non-vanity items)"
"no"
"no"
"no no no.so, csm, how does it feel to know that when ccp said you lot are nothing more than pr in a recent blog it was for this exact reason?i was really ****ed off but was marginalised and laughed at. now it's come to haunt you lot. now you are nothing more than pawns, through which ccp will legitimise everything. i will never vote in any csm election again but will support this. you want to be relevant? refuse to go to meet ccp, you are achieving absolutely nothing anyway, other than seeing corporate secrets which will totally ruin the game.ccp can go die in a fire now. they are destroying the game. once we start down the road of mt there will be no end and it will end in tragedy as it's hardly ever done right."
"nothere's nothing wrong with cosmetics in themselves, but they're a slippery slope. it's easy to see that ccp is treating the introduction of cosmetic items as a way of getting the playerbase used to paying $ for ingame stuff, in the same way as plex has been. let's not allow this to continue, because eventually they will \"monetize [our] social acceptance\" in eve."
"cosmetic only"
"no."
"no, hell no!"
"no not for me thanks"
"no"
"hell no."
"no way"
"no"
"**** no"
"no - why is that i pay to play then have to pay again for game items = wrong."
"no"
"noput vanity item craftable with bpo like all others item ingame"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic onlyi don't mind the idea of cosmetic only. either you want to spend cash on it, or you've earned enough isk to treat yourself to something frivolous.adding anything advantageous through rmt ruins the entire appeal of eve for me. we work hard to get our stuff, and someone worked hard to make it. that is what made it special."
"no"
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only.i don't really care if people want to play space barbie. it has no effect on my gameplay other than to provide another channel for trade profit.pay to play or pay to win schemes are spawn of satan."
"cosmetic only if you must have themthe second they introduce something that gives any kind of game advantage then ccp has lost me as a paying customer."
"no.i am not comfortable with any form of microtransactions in eve online currently. it is a pay to play subscription-based game and if the subscriptions are insufficient then the ccp management either needs to scale back its investment in non eve activities or raise the subscription fee. i want to see cosmetic stuff (avatar dress up) manufactured by players for players in respect to the current sandbox economic environment."
"nooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo!"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"no, while i can understand why ccp wants to bring in vanity items, i think the way they're going about it was completely wrong."
"no"
"no."
"no no noooo!!!!"
"no,absolutely not... no form of mt ever!!"
"no"
"absolute... no! for nothing in the world. not for pic change (should be free) or something else. never ever."
"cosmetic onlyif ccp wants to make some money off of cosmetic stuff only that is fine by me. i don't care how my character looks, but if others wish to pay to look pretty let ccp make a bit of profit off that for all i care. anything other than cosmetics however is unacceptable to me. i refuse to pay for advantages in game and i refuse to play a game where you can buy advantages in the game with money."
"no"
"no."
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"no!"
"too late! the day the sold the first plex that idea went out the window."
"nowhile a reasonable argument could be made for cosmetic only, it's really just a slippery slope to pay to win."
"no!the cosmetic stuff so far is bad enough, but i can just choose to ignore that becuase the vanity items don't give the player any advantage. however, the day i see an item in the aur store that gives any actual combat advantage is the day i quit playing eve. i have come to really enjoy the game universe i get to experience in this game. the reason that eve has been around so long and has been a source of so much enjoyment: the player base. the initial reason that i was drawn to play eve was that it is as far as i'm concerned the only real player driven mmo out there. introducing microtransactions to eve will absolutely ruin it changing the dynamic from player driven to plex driven, and when that happens it will be a very sad day."
"no !i would have been ok with cosmetic only changes, but the internal newsletter thing shows that this is only the beginning, only way to be sure is to nuke mt from orbit now, that and an apology for lying to the csm."
"no!"
"no"
"cosmetic only!"
"no, i do not want micro transactions.. seems like your trying to get as much money as possible from your existing subs.. doing that could end up costing subs. i'm already not happy about the cosmetic ones but i can deal with it. i recently came back to eve to check out the new changes and start playing again but after hearing about microtransactions and the direction you guys seem to be heading in, i'm starting to think i should have just stayed away..."
"no"
"nomt has no place in eve."
"no"
"seriously no.ccp you can either be p2p or f2p with micro transactions - you cannot have it both ways."
"no"
"no no and no"
"no!"
"nooo"
"^^ this,so my vote is no"
"no."
"nono microtransactions. i believe they are a great way to 'retire' an mmo once it's beyond development - but there's no place for it in eve. stick it in dust but don't muddy the economy in eve which has been a major staple in providing the game with its community of experts and appeal.i was going to type more but this really isn't the place and there have been far more eloquent responses to this issue whichc i prefer ccp to read to my drivel."
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic onlyand purely cosmetic/vanity: ships/etc via mt with new appearance are ok, if they require the normal ship (or whatever) as part of the payment (maintaining the crafting/economy). swg did away with decay, killing the crafting, and destroying the entire economy. generating ships without components, mining, etc will lead to that."
"no"
"no however cosmetic only if priceses were much lower, no way is is posable to say ud spend more on some shoes or a shirt than a battle ship"
"cosmetic only"
"no!"
"no"
"noplay eve"
"i vote nobut i can be content with cosmetic only"
"no"
"no"
"no**** em- just don't buy the crap ccp bring out- who gives a **** if you have a pet donkey?"
"no -.- just no. don't complete the life cycle of an mmo and kill it off =/-senjo"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"hell no"
"no!"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"no! never!"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no"
"[cosmetic only]"
"i say no, what a bad idea."
"no!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!"
"no"
"no."
"n to the o"
"\"cosmetic only\""
"no"
"no!"
"no"
"no leave the sandbox alone"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"noooooooooooooooooooooooooooo"
"no!!!"
"no"
"noand why i vote no? becouse its clear no ccp has no plans on respecting our wishes, so lets vote totally against mt."
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"no."
"no"
"cosmetic only. i don't have a problem with people who want to spend money, as long as it doesn't affect gameplay."
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no no and noabsolutley no reason for a game with a monthly subscription to have micro transactions"
"no. no more microtransactions!"
"cosmetic only"
"noto ccp, develop the game hand in hand with the community, and stop building rubbish we don't want."
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"would have voted \"cosmetic only,\" but since ccp have promised this before, but are sending other signals in their internal newsletter, i'll vote:nooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo"
"no!"
"no"
"what? oh no!"
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"that and big fkng no"
"no to microtransactions, keep eve awesome!"
"no."
"cosmetic only"
"no!"
"no!"
"no!!!!!!!!"
"....no."
"simple... no to mt"
"no"
"no"
"no!"
"no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no nono no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no nono no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no nono no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no nono no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no nono no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no nono no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no nono no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no nono no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no nono no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no nono no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no nono no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no nono no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no nono no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no nono no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no nono no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no"
"no"
"no!"
"no"
"no"
"no!"
"no"
"no"
"no, no & no......"
"no microtransactions ever!"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"\"cosmetic only\"with a caveat, cash only. i know the plex in game is probably too cheap for ccp's tastes, (more expensive plex == more people buying plex....) but this ain't the way to take plex out of the system"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"no"
"no !"
"nowhy ruin one of the best things on the internet. don't ruin what isn't broken!!"
"vote cosmetic"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"vote no - you think that because you pay a set fee each month that you should have access to all the options and features in game that everyone else gets.yeah that should go without saying that if i am paying eve's 15$ per month fee i shouldn't have to pay real money for anything else in game except the plex as a way to get more isk for cash."
"no"
"noi do not want any microtransactions in eve.if they insist that there must be mt then they better damn keep them cosmetic or i'll fly my ass over to their office and drop kick each and every one of those lying scumbags in the face."
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"i vote no, none what so ever... this isnt eve."
"no"
"no"
"no!"
"no"
"no"
"no!"
"[cosmetic only]i view cosmetic micro transactions like hats in tf2, its more like a donation.i think using plexes to pay for them is actually a good idea because you can buy a plex with isk or money, but only if the things for sale are non-practical things....like hats."
"no!"
"no"
"nocategorically no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no."
"hell no"
"no.i want to say cosmetic only, but it really is a missed opportunity if they go that route. new clothing or vanity items could actually be something created by the player via planetary interaction or industry, creating a whole new \"profession\" so to speak. instead they are rolling out with having you purchase a plex with real money and exchanging that (at a ludicrous exchange rate) for clothes. while true, this way will make ccp more money, the other way adds another layer of depth to the deepest and most complex (in a good way) mmo there is."
"cosmetici understand you want to run a business, but you can not control the bot/rmt in this game which give people an edge over others. next you want to give people the another avenue to pay their way to over their peers.vanity items are one thing."
"no"
"no"
"no"
"ffs, noooooooooooooooooooooowth is this, farmville? omg. cant believe im reading this........"
"cosmetic only"
"no."
"no"
"no !!!"
"limited cosmetic only, ive used portrait change before and i didnt mind spendign $10 on it, but $70 for a damn monacle? where does it go from there? an ugly ass hat that increases turret damage 5% for 3600 aur?"
"cosmetic only"
"no!"
"no!"
"no oldtimer here"
"cosmetic"
"no"
"no stop this"
"no!"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic onlyon the condition people can get the items via in game means as an alternative to spending rl money on them."
"no no no no and no!!!"
"noin eve it is normal to have 3+ accounts per human they are getting enough out of us don't be greedyon a side note..when diplomacy doesn't work burn everything to the ground"
"no"
"not at all!"
"i vote no all together nothis idea /new market has to go"
"noeven cosmetic items like hats no!you want a hat? go mine some silk-spar and make one!"
"no"
"heck no!!!!"
"no no, no!!!ccp should wake up and stop changing a old awesome game into something like that.against \"the sims\", against \"second life\", against comercial!it's time to wake up and notice that the players and not ccp are the owners, we all made it possible!"
"no. die microtransactions die.i must say i'd be alright with like a $1 increase on monthly subscription if they sincerely believe they're hurting for money."
"no.absolutely not."
"no!"
"im voting no!"
"no!!"
"no"
"hell no !"
"no."
"no at all, ccp stop it!"
"no no no and no!just incase you missed it the first time,hell no"
"nooooooooooooooooooooooooo"
"no"
"no"
"no!"
"no"
"no"
"i vote no"
"no"
"no"
"no!"
"no"
"noif they dare move beyond cosmetic only i will unsub all 3 accounts"
"no."
"no"
"no."
"cosmetic only!or no!"
"mt on top of a monthly fee are they trying to kill eve? i vote no"
"no!"
"no"
"no."
"nosubscription cancelled until this farce is sorted."
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"damn no!dont destroy a awesome game like blizzard does it with own games.dont forget the players made ccp big over the years with all the money!the oldest ones should have the highest \"right\" to choose new things."
"no no no"
"no"
"cosmetic only."
"no"
"no"
"**** you all..yes"
"no."
"cosmetic"
"no"
"no.absolutely not."
"no"
"no"
"no"
"noquote: \"bring back the cruel, merciless, cookie-taking-away sandbox. eve is the game that takes your cookie away from you, not the game that sells cookies for rl currency.\""
"no!"
"no. just no."
"no"
"**** no - i will not pay a subscription to a game that supports mts.stop breaking eve you greedy ****s"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic if they must, none prefferably."
"no"
"vote noif they really need money i'm ok to pay one extra buck each month"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no!"
"no"
"no"
"no !!!we don't need a game that restricts players by there real life \"isk\"besides didnt ccp want to make eve in to a scifi simulator .... imo the sandbox element is needed and you shouldnt limit what people can do by adding microtransactions ... so no absolutley no !!!"
"cosmetic onlycosmetic micro-transactions are fine. ship colors, tattoos, clothes, hell mounts to drive around the station are fine. sparkle trails for ships, animations, whatever. just not creating items that affect game play, or altering stats, sp etc."
"we pay lot of money over many years to let you grow ccp, and now thats your way to say thanks to the old ones???no no no!!!"
"no."
"cosmetic onlyi wouldent mind beeing able to change the look of my ships or toons. as long you can also buy it on the market from people who buy the cosmetics and sll ehm there"
"amen, i vote no!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!maybe instead of spending your time trying to suck everyones wallet dry, you could actually fix things. ie- broken dragonfly- overuse of supercaps- better pos management oh and the biggest problem in eve as of always! the f*cking macros!"
"sign and yes... the hell \"no\""
"no definatly not!"
"no"
"no!absolutly not! micropayment will kill the game - look at other games like lotr-online.. micropayment never ever!"
"no"
"no"
"i vote hell no for microtransactions"
"no!!!! the worst idea ever!"
"no!"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic onlyall the stupid spammers in amarr and jita need to stop. spamming in-game is not going to solve anything."
"i vote no"
"no"
"no"
"no.as a miner (carebear if you will) if plex/aur purchases are the only way to pvp sucessfully then there is no reason in the game for there to be mining as its products are worthless when nothing of value can be made from it. ccp, you threaten your own game's viability and core concept of mining/market/pvp interaction. build on what you have created here, do not pull it down and throw it all away."
"yes.because we are already there and screaming \"no!\" now is just stupid. if i want to i can spend hundreds of dollars for plex and buy a char and an officer-fitted ship.you are all just afraid you can't afford whatever ccp may offer."
"no!"
"nooooo noway no i vote no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"noand add sexual interaction between the chars"
"noabsolutely no... why become like other companies when you got an already good but different company!?"
"no.cosmetic i don't care.3 accounts depends on it, ccp."
"no no no no nofire soundwave yes yes yes yes yes"
"\"cosmetic only\""
"no i do not support this that is why i joined this game and got all my friends to join this game. if they must try to pry more money from us then do it with somthing other then the game play. like the close things and maybe ship color not ship types and or fuction."
"no"
"jita and amarr is locked down go to dodixie !!!!"
"noi want to play not pay"
"if ccp desperately need to sell something with microtransactions then cosmetic only!i don't mind people burning their cash on some fancy trinkets.as long as it stays with trinkets!"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"no"
"other"
"no"
"no"
"no, nay, nevarr"
"honestly my thoughts on this can go ether way but more likely im a middle man here.it would be nice to have unique mid tech ships/mods like faction ships within the noble market, but those dont give much of the socalled \"godmod\" idea of ships, rather its just something different, normally a slight advantage.like the differnce between a faction tempest and a normal tempest, its not too large to be game breaking, but it can be felt depending on what you do with them.for me the idea of having ships/mods within the nex isnt that huge an issue, that players need to band against eachother and the game they love, rather you should suggest ways it work out well for everyone. ccp needs money to make this game great, but pure vanity items for costs that would normally be used to get actual things in game, that are of real use. ie: ships, mods, rigs, etc.honestly if this idea from ccp is done right, it could work out well, but if they dont ether no one will buy anything or it could destory the eve market as we know it. though the pure idea of buying aur with rl money alone, already is here, you just buy a plex and convert. it would also be nice to see the ablitiy to outright by aur with cash too rather then needing to buy a plex all the time just to get it."
"noand also no to wis and the whole concept, wth is it with ccp...."
"no"
"i vote nooooooooooooooooooooooo as well!!!!"
"no"
"no! for the love of god no!why the hell do we pay for full accounts if we have to pay more to get actual full accounts?if they go through with this, ccp can have their internet spaceships back. i wont be needing them."
"cosmetic only.i really don't mind if some herp-derp wants to spend his real money on a monocle. but if he's using that money to get advantages over a player who has given their time and hard work and subscription fees to ccp for years? hell no."
"cosmetic only"
"no no no no no no no!no mt thats final i think its clear what the customer thinks... and i know for sure that i wont be playing eve any longer if they go though with this preposterous idea"
"im not overly against [cosmetic only] as for plex for rempas, again not overly against.but pvp ability and destroyable items no plox!!!!"
"no"
"no"
"nooooooo!!! this isnt wow ffs gtfo"
"cosmetic onlyeven then onl if it's truly self funding...you crazy?"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"no!"
"vote cosmetic"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"no, cloths should and always be player made to expand the in game economy."
"no ! no ! no !if they ever start charging for sp my accounts will close and so will everyone ive talked to. ccp listen to us now enough is enough. btw you could easily buy my support by adding poker in stations. :p"
"cosmetic only"
"100% = = = = no no nooooooooooooooooooooostop it..8 accounts, it's up to you ccp"
"no"
"no!!"
"no"
"no"
"no!!!"
"no"
"noacceptable are only cosmetic vanity items and that only at prices that are not preposterous. even the first instalment right now is already outrageous."
"no ccp"
"cosmetic only"
"no (way - stop)"
"no."
"no!nuff said"
"no...but can i just say what your doing amarr is actually stopping pople from playing which is always a bad way to go and good reason to be banned from eve..."
"i am just the bieber - and i say \"no f*** no pls\""
"no"
"no"
"no. noway this will work with eve."
"no"
"no to microtransactions !!!"
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"first off, i could care less if ccp sells vanity items, you know what let the monocicle be 150 bucks, doesn't bother me in the least, but that leaked memo suggested that there would be \"elite ammo\" sold on the store, as well as ships, and other functional things. this is a game breaker, the whole awesomeness of eve is that everything is player made, or player earned, not simply traded for 14.95. if they turn this game into a pay2win, its over for me, i will cancel all of my accounts and wave goodbye. keep the vanity stuff, hell i might buy some when it matriculates into the normal market. if ccp is that broke...add more value to the game, attract mroe people...hell, use microtransfers to support dust, as there won't be a sub model, but leave eve alone. allus"
"no"
"no!"
"nobecause i haven't spent over 300$ on subscription fee's just to have to pay more to stay up to date with the latest pvp advantages."
"no!"
"no"
"no i do not agree with it"
"this account speaks for following projects:www.spacepot.euwww.eve-tradepilot.pro.tcwww.eve-metrics.com&www.eve-casino.wsand we say no!!!!"
"nountil i saw the nex market i would have been in favour you seem to have completely missed the word micro in micro transctions - this is completly ill conceived please pull it and if you still think mt are the way to go after the widespread reaction please come back next year with a well thought out proposal on sisi and have two way discussion with players first"
"noa few months ago i would have said \"cosmetic only\" but ccp has demonstrated they aren't going to be held down by their own word on that, so it is, in my humble opinion, a trust issue now. i think that if mt is allowed to continue at any level, there will inevitably come a time when uber-ships are available for cash only. i was wrong before... but now i don't tink the players have a say anymore. it's done.subscription to log in.rl cash to buy spaceships and ammo.pretend insurance.edit:please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"no"
"no at all"
"noshort and sweet, just no."
"no and only if ccp promiss by whatever they believe in to stay on it.. cosmetic only."
"no"
"nonono"
"no, cosmetic.personally i'm never gonna buy anything from there, but i don't mind someone buying jeans or other useless stuff from the shop. but no for anything that affects on gameplay."
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only.but not for insanely high prices, like we have now. look at littlebigplanet, lots of costumes, but costumes are really cheap. i wouldn't mind buying a lbp costume i liked. however, i would mind paying the same price i paid for the pants i'm not wearing right now for virtual pants."
"no.microtransactions are for f2p games. they support the developers, and keep the game running.they are not a tool for successful subscription-based games to increase profits."
"no"
"no!microtransactions are only acceptable in free to play games..."
"no."
"no!"
"cosmetic only - top price 5 usd"
"noas we already pay a full subscription."
"i vote no"
"cosmetic only.if you want to pay to look different fine, but anything else would give unfair advantage to those with teh greateest access to money"
"cosmetic only.only if subscription is removed. otherwise, forget it."
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only."
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"no!"
"no!!!!"
"no"
"no."
"cosmetic onlyi see no problem with ccp getting a little extra money off people who want to spend the extra money just to look cool in a game where i can turn off character pictures in chat and not care."
"no!"
"cosmetic only"
"no!and not even cosmetic, just the way to get us use to them for the next steps."
"no!!!"
"no.but dont rich players already have an advantage over poor ones, or those who refuse to pay irl money for isk?there it is though, you can buy isk with rl money via plex:p...but on the other hand its good cos you can pay isk for game time this way.i hate all connection of rl funds with the inside of the game itself."
"cosmetic onlyanything else is game breaking and dumb"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"hell no!!!"
"cosmetic only"
"no."
"1.0"
"nothing too belligerent; just the option to check out my sexy hangar from time to time.also, aforementioned (skippable) canned cutscene to cover up the captain's quarters loading screen would be nice.supported~"
"1.0"
"spoken like a true capsuleer. +1"
"+1ccp should not shove new content down players' throats. i wasnt forced to enter a wormhole or join an incursion, and i shouldn't be forced leave my pod. the players should *want* to get out of the pod and into the incarnia environment. if i can be diplo"
"the old hanger is good in that it is much less lag or slowness of performance. currently the barbies in space makes my game run slow, so being in a ship is much less laggy.this becomes more of a problem when you have multiple account running and one of them is in station. if it could be turned off (or not turned on) on chars it would give better performance when doing important stuff on multiple accounts.maybe have it default that you are inside your pod, and the camera hovers around it until you hit the enter captains quarters button."
"although the recent turn of events is discomforting, i continue to hope that ccp will listen to the voice of reason and make things \"make sense.\" the users, including myself, care for the game, and keep writing on forums to show that. otherwise they would just quit and buy more beer with the subscription fee.john turbefield was his name. go forth and let it be known."
"1.0"
"1.0"
"so much want. come on ccp don't take the easy road about this."
"1.0"
"1.0"
"do you really want to have to wait and watch while your large breasted female avatar has to take a shower to wash off the ectoplasm every single time you dock ??oh wait.."
"definately a 'yes!'"
"agreed. a perfectly sound comprimise. whilst they're at it, fix the damn avatars in cq. shadows are projected where a light source is present, the textures look like i'm made of clay, when wearing a jacket your arm magically apears through the sleeve and to top it off i walk like i've a pole stuck up my arse. i like cq, i like the potential it brings, i just don't like the fact it's not fit to have been released in its current state."
"incarna was a great idea, just not for eve. it doesn't fit with the whole ethos of the game, and has ruined the game imho. as the intro says we are gods. gods shouldn't have to walk around to do common tasks. a large part of your player base is not at all happy with the changes you made. a large part of your player base cannot play the game anymore. this is not a in line development this is a change to the game that in no way improves the game play. it's merely a gimmick that at best is a attempt to draw in more casual players, and a worst a change to a more world of warcraft type of game."
"@wolf, i just hope you are wrong about what u sad. anyway i belong to the people who have to buy a new laptop for sth i dont want. incarna. i was playing eve perfectly with nice grafics... argh, whatever wrong topic...+1n.m."
"supported in memory of faction war."
"ah, back from vacation and look at all that i have missed!okay, let's break it down logically.true character transfers can be abused. but surely you cannot use the fact that there is an existing loophole as a justification for adding a new exploitable loophole. that's as silly as saying that deadbolts can be lockpicked, so might as well not lock your door at all. zzzzzokay so let's examine these exploitable loopholes it see if they really are all comparible, as the proponents of this thread seem to take as an assumed fact:reputational leaking exploits:1) simplest of all, just open a new account/alt. presto chango, all the \"your identity is sum total of your actions\" arguments evaporate. pros: clean slate. scotch free.cons: you have to start a new character. no standings. no skills.may cost you a new account, $15 a month, or free if just an alt.2) buy a farmed toon. pros: clean slatecons: may not have exactly the skills you need, may not have the standings that you have, may have a stupid name that makes sense only in chinese. also, getting one that custom \"suits\" you may take time for that custom farmer to make one. takes a lot of time. costs you $30 to transfer, plus more to pay the farmer. (real $$)3) name changepros: almost a clean slate. will avoid most casual neg standings, even with a mail out to all people who have them as contacts. only those who really hate you will notice. and even then, those with many reds in their contact list will not notice a random \"new red with a strange name\" showing up. once again, people who think they will notice have not played long enough to have a contacts list 2 pages long, with over 30 reds.cons: a one time cost of ($50 (?) not sure if that was decided what it should cost)so i leave you to decide if we need yet another potential reputation leak, and whether the pros outweigh the cons.-i don't follow the whole \"we are going to be walking around in station, therefore need new names\" argument. it's not like the names are going to be hanging over our heads in a glowing label ala the sims. maybe you can elaborate in this need some more."
"quick reply! tell me if i missed a vital success! anyone short of \"who you really hate\" doesn't really matter, do they? i mean, if you cant be bothered to take an extra step for them odds are you won't even remember their exact name at warp-in anyway (this is why the \"notes\" section will most likely have to transfer as well)a list of 30 reds is the same as a list of 30 names in terms of unmanageability harsh words but name changing provides a regulated alternative. that is definative progress pass, i dont see that argument as adding anything but pathos but if you want me to argue on their behalf ill give it a try later, its friday----------------------------yeah, i don't plan on deciding anything, i see this as a practice in feasibility and \"quality control,\" ...my personal views differ"
"yes"
"yes!i must say i'm particularly irked by this. usability improvements are nice but the font in use was terrible years ago (obviously) and surely there's something better. i'm not a developer but how hard can it possibly be to implement a new font these days?"
"would love some more font options"
"oh god yes this so much ^^"
"/signedgive me my hangar and ship spinning back, please."
"1.0"
"i agree it wouldn't be hard to add an option to undock from ship into station would use alot less resources that way."
"/signedoption to use old hangar or cq."
"want to spin right round"
"you spin me right round, baby right round like a record, baby right round, round , round..."
"/signedi agree to this. i disabled cq and i dont wanna see just a wall. pls give the option to use the old station feature (ship spin screen)."
"signed!"
"woot? i'm totaly for that! make it optional. either old station view or cq.!"
"this should have been from the beginning that way!so i'm totaly for this!"
"make it optional and change the static view (no station environment) to show the ship and the same ui as we had earlier. i.e. cq, hangar or static."
"i love your pic!"
"needs even more support"
"pls, ccp, give us back our beloved ship hangar and the option entering cq or not."
"/signed"
"hmm there is an option in esc menu to not load the cq environment - whats up with you people?"
"this is a petition thread. why don't you take your bald head and cut it off with your thin man member."
"wow, i didn't even know there was an embarrassing cluelessness skillbook. congrats for training it to level 5.+1 on petition"
"ccp: make incarna optional. i don't care for the silly image of the doorway to the corridor either. want my ship spinning hangar back."
"/signedalso, find out what's causing the graphics card / cpu to overheat .... i can't dual-box anymore without fearing that my freaking laptop will melt down."
"+1make it optional at least untill it\s walking in stations and not walking in a tin can.everyone in my corp seems to have turned of cq - there\s a reason ccp."
"/signedwhy would i get out of my ship while it is being rearmed. plus, i can't run multiple accounts anymore so unsubbed the alts...."
"making non-essential visual enhancements optional should be a case of good reasoning, thus: seconded.*the d'oh edit* let us -simple as it is- toggle between cq and the hangar view pre-incarna. ccp should then collect the stats on who actually uses cq. that percentage will be very small, promised."
"\"pr disaster\" is starting to look like an understatement"
"give us back ship spinning and the old hangar, with the option to enter the captain's quarters and the rest of the station enviroment. do away with this s**tty wallpaper business."
"+1 for ship spinning"
"/signed for optional disembark.cq is a tremendous letdown on every possible level. please, please fix this crap. i want my shortcuts and my graphics card horsepower back."
"i'm unsubed over this, two accounts"
"support.i don't necessarily need shipspinning back, but removing an already built-in feature to diable cq for no reason other than ccps vanity is a slap in the face of paying customers.cancelled my account over the fact the announcement to force cq on us wasn't taken back in todays devblog and will discontinue another paid for with plex."
"supported"
"1.0"
"x"
"supporting this and from now on will be right aligning all my posts until you put the isk amount back where it is meant to be.and you can shove your aurum up your arse."
"supportno point in seeing that zero forever, i know it wont change."
"1.0"
"this is good."
"i too plan on wasting my money on overpriced garbage."
"supported, and move the isk amount back to left while you're at it, ty."
"what he said ^"
"supported, i wont ever see a single aurum"
"added your petition to the bottom of my thread @ wallet on the left"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"+1 aurum. uh. i mean, internets."
"i know i've got 0 aurum. that's because i don't plan on wasting 15 dollars on useless e-clothing and monocles. support!"
"1.0"
"it wasn't a feature that i made frequent use of, but its clearly something that many people found handy and was removed for no adequately explained reason.supported."
"and again i would like to put my vote of confidence to bring back loot log exporting :)"
"bump.yay new turrets!they did mention missiles were on the slate...but keep supporting so we get cool missiles before eve shuts down from everyone ragequitting over ccp lying, mts, and general fail-deving!"
"1.0"
"supported"
"what i want is an option to attach a contact to another. so if i remove that contact i will have the option to remove all contacts related to it. also i would like the feature integrated into the application process. that person can add his or her alt to it automaticaly giving you the option to set the alts standings to the corp while you are accepting the application. i feel corp/alliance managers need more time to play the game than to be spending time trying to figure out who is who.~red teufel"
"in hindsight, i wish a waited to post this, i hope it doesn't get overshadowed by the whole incarna debacle."
"interesting idea, but for those who actually like blob-style pvp roams (not me, by the way) it would make their experience a bit tedious.alternative: when a gate is activated more than 5 times in 30 seconds, an automatic alert is transmitted on some publicly visible channel. big blobs could still move around freely, but their location would be broadcast to everyone nearby. small gangs of 5 or less would therefore have an advantage of surprise."
"i would tend to think that the result of this would be less roaming gangs, and more camps. i fully support your wish to find a way to encourage people to get out in a 6-8 man gang and go looking for the ****, but this could have just the opposite effect."
"one disadvantage would be that a huge blob can camp a gate, and you lack the ability to bring in a bigger blob to deal with it. this gives campers a numbers advantage that can't easily be mitigated, and time delays would give them all the warning they need to know that a blob is coming after them.i like the idea of discouraging blob warfare though, we need more thoughts like this."
"no.i've gotten 100 kills in 2 days in 0.0 with 5-8 dudes, while fighting a force of 40-50 guys, from an alliance of thousands, in their home systems.if you want small gang pvp its out there, the trick to small gang pvp was never \"fair\" fights, it was learning to exploit the other guys weaknesses and still get kills, no matter how many people he brought, while not dying yourself."
"trinity, made ships pretty. incarna, made turrets pretty........, made missiles pretty.i for one am tired of watching blobs of light appear in the center of a ship, traveling towards a target, blindly going through whatever side of the ship happens to be in the way, and the rubber-banding at the end doesn't seem very space-aged either.i have read dozen's of threads and hundred's of posts over the years of how to fix missiles with all sorts of different ideas, with some showing promise and others just sounding terrible or unrealistic. nearly all of them would seem to require serious coding and testing and reworking on ccp's behalf. i don't know which method would be the prettiest, or easiest to create and implement.thus, i'm not proposing any specific idea in how to update missile, only to say that something should be done to make missiles look as nice as turrets do. to show ccp that enough people care about this so they can give this the attention it deserves."
"i agree with jack. you spend all that time to give us legs, and yet you do nothing with launchers? i am going to throw a wtf in here."
"i had a made a proposal on this a few months back.improve missile graphicplease use it as it is established and larger. i also bumped it for your convenience. if you have any ideas to add to it, by all means please do. it was written in the context of fighter-bombers, which at the time were causing massive lag and had been recently fixed. with the advent of new turrets, it has been announced missiles are on the slate...but keep supporting to push it higher up!"
"no need to bring this up again:source"
"was that posted after this turret revamp or the previous turret revamp, after which ccp also said missiles would soon follow?"
"please reply with support to this statement. i think this in large part sums up the frustration with ccp and incarna. by giving your support to this poast you increase the impact of its words. quote:originally by: jade constantinesure when you have been playing eve as long as we have you learn to take the rough with the smooth but you do so with the general feeling that ccp developers understand and get what makes eve great  and thats the problem now. this internal newsletter (if real) shows that one of the leading developers does not get eve does not care about eve, and simply sees eve as a cash cow to be milked ferociously to fund other projects. this is about keeping the golden goose of eve subscriptions (on a drip feed if necessary) while chasing and grubbing every little loose cent he can from the player base. let me give you a couple of examples of how this can and does (and has already) impacted our enjoyment of this game: 1. the captains quarters  its not gameplay its a display cabinet for vanity items. and the price of this display cabinet for you and i is that multi-client performance in stations is now terrible  if you have a bad graphic card its a jerk fest  if you have a decent graphics card its heat-fest. i can run 3-4 clients with cqs turned on  i can run it smoothly  but do i want to? hell no because my gtx 580 sounds like its melting my motherboard now! so i need to turn off the cqs on multiple accounts and as a result have more limited functionality on those accounts and an ugly wallpaper. no more station environment, no more clicking on my ship to open cargo hold, no more dragging ship to the hanger to board it. the delivery of the cq vanity item display case has impacted my gameplay. ccp could have made it optional and given us the option of keeping the old hanger view and added a disembark ship option to the ui but oh no to do that would have meant we werent being forced to look the vanity display case that marketing insisted must be front and centre if were to even think about buying these ridiculously overpriced items from the noble store.2. if you read the newsletter youll see reference to saved fitting slots  and i dont know about you verone but in jf weve run out of saved corp ship fittings. we want ccp to up the limit but is that really going to happen while the biz-devs talk honeyed words about how to squeeze extra income from players for such minor upgrades.? how long till we pay aurum for extra corp standing slots? for wardec options? for a usable corp management screen?3. and who develops these vanity items? yes thats right its eve artists and developers whose salary we pay with our subscriptions. given the choice wouldnt you rather have engine trails and flashy cyno effect for all players rather than a bunch of overpriced tat in the aur store for a fleeced few? because that is precisely the compromise being made here -> ccp using our subs money to pay for vanity item production they want to sell back to us for greedy prices and it is something you should get mad about.so heres the thing. the time to fight for the game we love is not in six months time when these concepts have bedded down and ccp is feeling bold enough to start selling noble faction ammo and +9 implants. the time to fight is now. because this newsletter embodies everything that many of us feared but didnt want to believe ccp were becoming capable of. it is a massive betrayal of the compact we shared as players and developers of this game and indicates that ccp is preparing to leap down a very dark and deep path of self-immolation in the months to come. i dont want to see eve online die verone. that sounds dramatic i know, but gameworlds die when the dreams and visions are extinguished and that can happen through a succession of bad ideas foisted on a community by people who really dont have much of a clue in business.^ this is exactly what the problem is!!"
"support"
"everyone in eve should be ****ed off. ccp has now shown its hand and it looks like dog ****. with that said i do think the incarna concept is cool but when the game is already broken, with no hope in sight that past features will be fixed, why dump so many resources into it. the mt's is a slippery slope to stand on and eve skipped the slipping part and jumped right off the cliff. because you are right. why spend time on making pos's more functional or hybrids worth fitting on a ship that could improve a customers experiance. when you can spend it on a fancy gold ring that will bring in the real thing.as for me personally. i will be leaving eve when my subs run out. i have never bought into the whole virtual vaniety thing and that is clearly where eve is heading."
"i think it's actually immersion breaking to have to leave your pod every time you come to the station. also, the performance of the cq is actually quite painful."
"amen brother"
"dear manny.i'm gonna support this, but i am never, ever going to forgive you for making me agree with something that jade long winded as hell and partially ******ed constantine said.edit: supported, but manny is going to suffer for it."
"supported."
"1.0"
"i was sceptical, but this is very well worded."
"right on. this is exactly where eve is heading. instead of expanding the player base with more smart, practical, playable, useful features, ccp has created a platform for sucking money out of the existing player-base, compromising performance and the vision of the game while masquerading as an expansion which we should all appreciate.this is actually setting the stage, as the original poster mentioned, for +9 implants and uber guns for sale. this will inevitably lead to the destruction of eve as we know and love it. i think we should call a boycott for aur and all things plex, except game time of course.this bears direct relevance to the topic about ccp quality vs qty and other issues:"
"1.0"
"this in every particular.(give him hell, grath)"
"when the player base starts getting behind jade as their heroic spokesman, you know you got it wrong ccp."
"actually hesitated in supporting this due to the source, never thought to use it as an excuse for a personal vendetta .. good call and full support!"
"supported fully. most importantly the rl money for awesome ingame advantage bit needs to be made sure to never happen..."
"well they already have rl money for in game advantage...the advantage is that your isk is only limited by how much usd/euro you got...realistically speaking."
"first off, i agree that spending x amount of time and resources on such a large thing as captain's quarters was perhaps was not such a good idea when there are other things in the game that need attention - things that players have been asking to get fixed; i.e. pos, corp management etc.on the other hand, i do understand why they've done it (at all) - ccp has said before, that their ultimate goal is to make eve the ultimate online sci fi experience. i.e. more than just a spaceship game. this new expansion is just a step towards that goal. but yes, just to iterate, they really need to focus more and player's needs. and having my client crash with multiple accounts open is very frustrating!second thing,in regards to the vanity items - correct me if i'm wrong...but i feel the big fear we're all having is that when/if they introduce items like +9 implants (and other items that will actually give your character an advantage over other players) the game will in fact mean that players will be forced to spend more money in order to stay at the top etc. this would be very bad and would in fact certify the comments (as mentioned in other replies to the op) that they're just trying to \"milk the cow\".however, at this stage, they are just vanity items - if you check the dictionary for the meaning of the word \"vanity\"1. the state or quality of being vain; excessive pride or conceit 2. ostentation occasioned by ambition or pride 3. an instance of being vain or something about which one is vain 4. the state or quality of being valueless, futile, or unreal 5. something that is worthless or uselessmy understanding from this is that vanity items don't (and won't in future either) increase/enhance your character's abilities - i.e. you won't need to buy them to compete with others. i.e. they're not an issue. if people want to waste their money on little fashion accessories then good for them. it doesn't affect me at all, it doesn't affect you either - and if it means that ccp can get a little extra money for all their hard work in providing eve to us (they've given us many expansion over the years and they've all been free!). then great. they deserve it. game developers work long and hard hours and their pay is generally quite poor.so until ccp introduces character enhancing items, or any kind of item that gives a player some kind of advantage (in which case they wouldn't be called vanity items), there is no reason to complain unless you're just wanted to troll and you don't like people earning money they damn well deserve.final notes:i agree:- captain's quarters should've been a lesser priority to that of other items that players actually care about- it is ridiculous that we can't run multiple clients at the same time now (and the comment about having the option to turn it off is a good one)- our gameplay has serisouly been affectedbut:- i see no problem with vanity items so long as it doesn't lead to more microtransactions that will enhance player/character abilities/advantage or whatevercheers"
"it doesn't take much for the avalanche to start."
"the cq is basically beta testing walking in stations for multiple characters, and taking eve beyond the spaceship to another level of immersion. this is something that has been talked about a lot and generates a lot of excitement among the player base, except apparently among bitter vets who run 9 clients at a time and complain when their performance slows.the nice thing about the vanity items is they are stupid and you don't have to buy them.and this may be a huge shocker, but ccp is a company, it does have to make money to provide eve for us, and its employees expect to be paid. i don't see why ccp's attempts to make money is a reason for us to get mad. some people will buy those vanity items, good for them. i won't be. as for the rest of the charges, speculating about +9 implants and noble faction ammo doesn't do anyone any good because it's not based on facts."
"apologies if you don't want your real name used kris, i'd prefer to use your ccp name but it wasn't brought up in the article. also, no hard feelings. i'm sure you're a great guy and a hard worker and while i disagree with your decision to push mt in the direction it is currently going, i have nothing but gratitude for your hard work on behalf of the community over the years. i'm sure this sentiment is shared by all players who will voice an opinion in this thread, yea or nay. unfortunately, we've all read the newsletter. and as you're the driving force behind something that has enraged players and caused riots in game that have shut down jita, well, the question has to be asked. so, should the csm ask kris to resign?note: i will not be voting either way. i don't want to take a stand on the issue, i just want to ask the question. i'd like to be able to buy stuff, and that means getting the riots to stop."
"yes, he should be asked to resign from his current position. i don't think it would be necessary for him to leave ccp entirely. just get him out of game design as he obviously can't be trusted with it."
"yes mt is a bad idea and heads shuld roll .."
"he should go to dust or that other game they are working on. do your mt over there, not in eve."
"it is beyond me why people like yourself always makes a post about fireing people.do you lack power in your real life or what's going on here?there has probably been way way worse ideas on the table at ccp's that you don't know of - from people who in the end made features you are endlessly happy for. you sir, tell me that you would have fired them. it would put a sudden stop to the 'idea making' at ccp if you get fired for making a bad one.i feel bad for you :) sorry for the gramma and all, i'm dead tired ^^"
"well, i think that might be a little drastic.. mt for now are completely cosmetic and its for the idiots who want to spend money on them. i'm not ****ed about that... i'm ****ed at the fact they haven't even attempted to fix the major problems with the game. they're just ignoring huge faults to bring us station walking. i feel like i got slapped in the face by all the money i've spent on eve over the years."
"no. and this thread should be locked."
"i don't want to cheat, ppl that cheat like that should have there accounts shutdown.if i wanted to cheat i'd de-compile the ui in python and edit the 1-2 lines of code in the autopilotex.you know, i see a lot of \"not supported,\" for what reason? type something, or is the extent of your conversational skills \"dude no way.\""
"to confirm yes this is what i'm talking about"
"i for some reason do not like giant frigates that are not in line with the other ship types. i know the original build had everything to scale and i enjoyed it. the camera drone idea is for the ship spinner people. i also thought it would help those that want to zoom in on the frigates. so really, the only new work i hope would be a zoom in option, and returning it to scale. is this doable?"
"no to paying more.no to rmt.microtransactions if its purely cosmetic.if it changes the game in any way, shape or form to give someone else the advantage over someone else, scrap it."
"noi don't want vanity items, and the day i have to pay more for garbage i don't want. i will gladly find something else to do."
"micro. micro.micro.micro.micro.if we want to count accounts (see above for another of my accounts)."
"microyou can already pay cash and get all the items in this game. you can even buy a character with maxed out skills. i don't see why everyone is so illogical about this mt issue."
"no.i pay enough as it is. if ccp wants more money then they shall cut down on their alcohol consumption. from what i always hear about fanfest does there seem to be a lot of alcohol involved, which is supposedly very expensive in iceland.so, how about saving some money instead of trying to get more in through vanity items? saving money is the reasonable way to go. those 600 employees cannot release a single patch where they do not mess up some ship's bonuses in some way. with each patch do we get extended downtimes, that add up more and more. the quality is getting worse and the bill is supposed to go up?no. no. no.be reasonable. they need to sort it out. not us."
"yes.......if the \"need\" is explained coherently."
"no.there's no reason to."
"micro with a caveat, purely cosmetic and not for plex. make aurum a currency you can buy with cash.you get the same subscription fee i'd pay to any other mmo, no special treatment to prevent doing something you haven't done for the last 8 years anyways. it goes up, i pay with plex until i can't afford the plex (which would be fast, considering an increased subscription fee would skyrocket plex prices) then i unsub."
"yes. with the caveat that a higher sub price will make me expect more in the way of content.2 weeks ago, i would say \"micro\" because i never imagined ccp would consider introducing game-affecting items. but now, unfortunately, i see that vanity items are just a starting point, and as such they are a starting point that cannot be allowed.it's a shame, because properly done, microtransactions could be both a great revenue stream, and unobtrusive. almost every player in this game would pay for a ship paint job. how cool would corp bomber jackets be? corp uniforms? but as of now, i don't trust ccp with scissors."
"yes"
"no1. ccp are spending a major chunk of eve subscription revenue on developing dust and wod. 2. the policy of rolling out new, buggy content in eve is already a source of annoyance, whilst ignoring older mechanics that are critial to gameplay. 3. eve is designed so that many players need multiple accounts, as a result it's already one of the most expensive mmos on the market. why should subscribers voluntarily pay more revenue to ccp that will not be used to improve eve. they don't appear to be listening to the csm, or the playerbase. they iterate on crap that the players don't want. all this proposal does is throw money at a problem that cannot be fixed until ccp change their agenda."
"micro cosmetic-only"
"yes. account 1yes. account 2obviously the standards of ccp's updates and community service would be higher to accompany this higher subscription fee."
"yes"
"no"
"noi would say yes, but i'm changing my mind. eve is a great game and could get more subscribers if ccp fixed incarna to be what the players want. if you build it they will come. we, the players will tell our friends and love this game forever and always as long as we feel satisfied with what ccp has produced. the reason i left wow was because of the care ccp directed to its players not shown in other mmos. currently i am beginning to doubt ccps ability to provide what we want and it doesn't have to do with how much money i give them."
"microonly if the microtransaction market is completely optional to the player base - to participate in it or not, that is the question. i personally prefer not to.i didn't come to eve to pretty up an unrealistic virtual persona of myself - if i wanted to do that i'd go create a second life."
"this image i slapped together, in response to the damage control post in the general forums (review the bottom of page 62 for the description) is a valid way to please all sides of the war on cq. this couldn't take a week or two to implement with the resources available. what say you?"
"i say i love it. you've got my vote."
"cool! got mine too"
"a very elegant solution. i support the proposal 100%"
"indeed."
"yeah, that's not bad actually - though tbh i'd rather it wasn't assumed we would disembark from our ships every time we dock. more importantly, this intermediate mode must not be the resource hog cq currently is.supported."
"no dice. sorry but no."
"open your fittings window, spin ship. right click on ship and open cargo/drone bay too.done."
"no to what? the idea of compromising on incarna one way or the other... or just the idea itself?"
"gameplay-wise this would be acceptable but against the backstory it's still lacking."
"this would not solve the all the art assets loading or the immersion breaking aspects that a disembark button could"
"start two fires with one post! you know you'd buy one too."
"1.0"
"well, since you already take money for vanity items, here are some suggestions on stuff i would really pay money for.first, i want the old jump effect for caps back, that was just awesome whilst the new one just plain sucks. that would be kind of priceless.second, caps were way to small (not counting the titan), they have to be scaled drastically, like twice or even three times their size they have right now.i think there were quite some others out there that would pay for that stuff, too."
"supporting my own proposal of course"
"agreed. it's absolutely ridiculous to have this sort of \"walking\" when modern wasd controls are pretty well standardized. sure, we're not talking twitch gaming here but we still need it to be functional."
"+1.also, given that we stand up when we push the \"walk forward\" key while sitting on the sofa, it'd be awesome if the behavior would also work in reverse - when you stand in front of the sofa and walk \"into\" one of the seat cushions (or nodes or whatever "
"csm are our representatives to ccp, it't my understanding that the dev blog that was shown was previewed by the csm and the response was \"are you fracking kidding me?\" and ccp didn't budge, and jsut went with it anyways, the dev blog was a joke. i respectfully ask the csm (if they share the same opinions on the micro transaction as the masses; that aur does not go beyond vanity items) to take action the best way it can, write a letter, sign it, deliver it to ccp and resign.my .02isk"
"ccp lost it's way long ago. they throw out one token patch to show they listen to the players after getting called out hard core on the 18 months debacle then they throw out this patch which is an insult to everyone.based on the awful graphics in station and the clunky behavior of walking and camera angles and adjustments, it's pretty obvious it wasn't ready but they had nothing else to offer. i can't even figure out why in the character creator my toons look awesome and in station they look like morbid old hags and depressed beat up men.i said this in our alliance ***** thread. it's like ccp doesn't have editors for their designs. i wish so much they'd hire me to go look at their proposed plans and actually edit them so that they don't welp constantly. if they do have editors, fire them, b/c it's obvious they aren't doing their jobs. if it's not them, then it's their management who's fubar not giving the editors the right to tell someone their work is **** and do it over.ccp needs to realize that the game has at least 15 major issues in 0.0 along with 100 minor ones. they don't even address the 15 major one's til players are happy and we're shocked and awe'd when they finally hit one of the minor ones.seriously, how do you guys go about setting an agenda? i don't get how you guys prioritize patch work over there because it's like you avoid anything that's relevant.i'd be happy with the station stuff if it were part of a bigger patch. but tossing this out without any significant fixes to 0.0 all the while telling us it's 6 more months til we can hope for some relevant fixes to supers, sov, and other 0.0 fiascos and not even touching the other major problems more than likely is not a way to keep customers around.i mean ffs dudes, we told you supers would be a problem the moment seleenes ******ed ass announced it. we told you exactly what the problem would be. you didn't listen then and now you act totally ignorant of the problem that came true.short of dreads, no capital ship has any balance or role in this game. carriers are a joke and have been a fiasco since launch. sc/moms have been an even bigger blunder b/c they're carriers on steriods but not really b/c they cost too much so \"we have to give them more overpowered ****\" titans are just everything that would make dreads overpowered if they weren't balanced while tossing on 40x more hp and oh yeah, a 1 shot kill weapon that every game ever invented knows is a failed idea.bombers are a jokefleet warping in blobs is a fiascodrones are out of control \"fix it balance items\" that have no logic to their implementation on 90% of the ships in game.dictor bubbles last to long. hictor bubbles don't stay up long enough and are too big for a movable bubble.pos have every flaw possible for what they are.sov stuctures are a joke in every fashionsov warfare is even more of a joke.there's no balance between ship sizes/classes anymore.there's no sense of races.there's no reason to do mixed racial fleets. it's either all amarr, all matar, or all caldari missile spamming ***gotry.wtf minmatar guns on almost every bs.... cause of a \"balance change.wtf hybrids.range warfare really means between 40 and 90...wtf probingwtf warping on gridwtf command / titan bonuses sitting in towers w/o a risk in the world.wtf super cap bouncing... aka go back to actually implementing formation warps.wtf desynces were fixed... oh wait.wtf botting!!!wtf standings and standings changes. blobs became bigger as a result of bluing being a 1 15minute change away. and temp blueing omg even worse.how is it the only way to have fun in 0.0 is to become a nomad non space holding alliances sitting in an unconquerable station with jump clones and bridges to escape system when camped all the while destroying the space people hold while avoiding the horrible nature of sov warfare and making more money doing it.and more...."
"originally by: jade constantinesure when you have been playing eve as long as we have you learn to take the rough with the smooth but you do so with the general feeling that ccp developers understand and get what makes eve great  and thats the problem now. this internal newsletter (if real) shows that one of the leading developers does not get eve does not care about eve, and simply sees eve as a cash cow to be milked ferociously to fund other projects. this is about keeping the golden goose of eve subscriptions (on a drip feed if necessary) while chasing and grubbing every little loose cent he can from the player base.let me give you a couple of examples of how this can and does (and has already) impacted our enjoyment of this game:1. the captains quarters  its not gameplay its a display cabinet for vanity items. and the price of this display cabinet for you and i is that multi-client performance in stations is now terrible  if you have a bad graphic card its a jerk fest  if you have a decent graphics card its heat-fest. i can run 3-4 clients with cqs turned on  i can run it smoothly  but do i want to? hell no because my gtx 580 sounds like its melting my motherboard now! so i need to turn off the cqs on multiple accounts and as a result have more limited functionality on those accounts and an ugly wallpaper. no more station environment, no more clicking on my ship to open cargo hold, no more dragging ship to the hanger to board it. the delivery of the cq vanity item display case has impacted my gameplay.ccp could have made it optional and given us the option of keeping the old hanger view and added a disembark ship option to the ui but oh no to do that would have meant we werent being forced to look the vanity display case that marketing insisted must be front and centre if were to even think about buying these ridiculously overpriced items from the noble store.2. if you read the newsletter youll see reference to saved fitting slots  and i dont know about you verone but in jf weve run out of saved corp ship fittings. we want ccp to up the limit but is that really going to happen while the biz-devs talk honeyed words about how to squeeze extra income from players for such minor upgrades.? how long till we pay aurum for extra corp standing slots? for wardec options? for a usable corp management screen?3. and who develops these vanity items? yes thats right its eve artists and developers whose salary we pay with our subscriptions. given the choice wouldnt you rather have engine trails and flashy cyno effect for all players rather than a bunch of overpriced tat in the aur store for a fleeced few?because that is precisely the compromise being made here -> ccp using our subs money to pay for vanity item production they want to sell back to us for greedy prices and it is something you should get mad about.so heres the thing.the time to fight for the game we love is not in six months time when these concepts have bedded down and ccp is feeling bold enough to start selling noble faction ammo and +9 implants. the time to fight is now. because this newsletter embodies everything that many of us feared but didnt want to believe ccp were becoming capable of. it is a massive betrayal of the compact we shared as players and developers of this game and indicates that ccp is preparing to leap down a very dark and deep path of self-immolation in the months to come.i dont want to see eve online die verone. that sounds dramatic i know, but gameworlds die when the dreams and visions are extinguished and that can happen through a succession of bad ideas foisted on a community by people who really dont have much of a clue in business."
"saved"
"saved"
"no."
"ubad"
"now that the coalition of cluster ****s doesnt have the biggest super/titan fleet supers are op, but they werent for the past 2 years... uh huhoh now that your ****ty alliance doesnt hold space all of .0 is broken huh, maybe you should have spoken up when csm vuk lao told us he didnt see any reason to push for a change in .0 sov mechanics because it would hamper his rmt empire, i mean his alliance."
"really? go research the post history of yaay, luckyduck, and i'm down. nope, never ever tried to get 0.0 fixes... evar.pl dev alts logging in to act like ****s once more."
"why are you so angry?did you:[ ] lost space?[ ] lost super?[ ] lost sense of reallity?[ ] lost fleets?[ ] lost blues?[ ] lost history?[ ] lost mind?[ ] all of the above?"
"how about you tards add some content instead of just saying no?i know it's yaay and all, and even i only agree with about 10% of what he ever posts. but at least read more than just alliance ticker and reply with more than just brainless drivel."
"my comments in bold"
"again, my comments in bold.this is how you make a post, \"lol no\" and \"u mad?\" are not content or appropriate replies unless the op is a completely drooling idiot."
"just to add 2c about some of the stupidity that is incarna.i found myself needing to re-arm yesterday so docked up and wanted to transfer ammo. even that is now trickier, the only way to access my ships cargo bay was through the ship list and right clicking on the bay. why? because the stupid incarna engine left my character stuck on the gangplank and would not recognise walk commands.why force incarna, it makes sense that people will dock, reload, change ships etc without ever exiting their pods, not that they will always exit the pod while docked. and the simple way to solve the propblem? have a new button below the undock that let's you exit your pod into incarna, that way those that enjoy the incarna experiance can and those that are busy with eve are not interrupted.incarna is not a bad concept but it should be a expansion to the game and optional not a forced mechanic that ruins it. it is the worst patch/expansion in eve that i have ever experianced."
"but he is."
"i guess you are too, so mad you can't even think to reply with anything. somehow winning made you more bitter somehow."
"good points op. but you are only listing thy sypmtoms or sickness and not defining the root cause. i usually stick to trolling on these forums as they are not a place for any reasonable discussion due to so many hopelessly immature pubbies (hi pl) posting here but i'll do one exception and will tell you where i see the problem (and only because of respect towars the love for eve my fellow rawrrians have).ccp has serious lack of corporate maturity. they have no clue what they have created which has been proven over past years. starting with entire \"devs play this game and feed their alliance memebers with exclusive ingame items\" through \"lets change things we do not understand for the sake of change without consulting player base\" ending it with scrum implementation in their development teams. most people here have no clue what scrum so this is directed to ccp management: i have worked as consultant in 4 different companies over the last 6 years that implemented scrum. it did not work. it does not work if your fundamentals are bad, it is not a silver bullet. if your company is crappy it will stay crappy even after you hide it under scrum rug. you should lynch whoever sold you the idea of scrum. but again this is just a symptom of your lack of knowledge on what you have in your hands. and saying that others are crappier then you, like sony, will not make you look any better. one more sign towards \"scrum phails\" club is detoriation of quality and i think it is evident that eve has not bee properly tested in years now.bottom line is that ccp is acting as a group of 14 year old kids who came up with brilliant algorithmic trading app that could smoke global derivative markets but they keep using it to fix prices of bubble gums at local candy store.having said all this i need to point out that eve is going down no matter what. there is no saving it as, in my opinion, it has crossed the no-return-point 2 years ago and it is in constant decline. i have not glanced at the code (maybe i should consult some of me rmting slavic \"cousins\" for this as they seem to have access to it) but judging by the state and complexity of the game i'm pretty sure that technical debt is huge and beyond repair and only a full re-write can help here from that side. resources to re-write is are being used to add walking in stations, overpriced monocles and mirrors for us to admire our avatars instead. think of eve as a house of cards where each new card is piled on top. it will collapse once you add to many cards as foundations can not be changed due great complexity.but it is not all that bad. i give eve another 2, maybe 3 years before it starts going swg path and starts housing only hard core fanbois and rest of the population moves on. there is also something positive about it as there will be no lag caused by huge battles as there will be no one to fight them. you reap what you saw and ccp has not handles the sawing part very well lately so they deserve what is coming.now if i may ask my fellow aliance mate to keep serious discussion to rawr forums in the future as smackoad is not a place to share intelligent thoughts.p.s. i predict at leats 3 \"umad\" posts by 9 year olds who's parrents don't lock their home pcs when they go to work after mine and at least 20 people who will google \"scrum\" after reading my post."
"it's all about priorities. you can prioritize enhancing your product, thus giving your customers value for their money, and you can prioritize revenue increasing features.you fail when you replace and with or, and to be honest, for us regular joes it looks like that's exactly what you've gone and done.shame, i quite enjoyed this game."
"as for the poor graphics in cq for toon models -- give them a break. it's v1.0.i'm sure if they turned on the full render engine then all those whiners that complain about incarna being too intense for their laptops will have a cow. i'm certain the graphics will be updated once the larger part of the player base gets new graphics cards. as for why it looks great in the character generator and horrible in the cq... take a computer graphics class :)"
"stopped reading and considered the entire post a joke."
"obvious troll is obvious."
"i've always said you don't need to change bombers to fix the problem with bombing. the problem is more alligned to fleet warping and bridging causing fleets to blob in rediculously compact format that just screams bomb the living **** out of me before i've even loaded. fleet formation warping fixes bombing w/o touching bombers and achieves the ultimate goal for why bombers were implemented, which is focused fire range dictation. but ccp has not touched fleet warping for 7 years of promised remarks while bombers have seen three iterations. so for lack of better fleet warping mehcanics, bombers are indeed problematic.but you show the typical thoughtless remark rather than research or looking at outside the very small box."
"well.......i don't know about all this internal ccp stuff, but i logged in a few back after i had to reinstall the entire game after the client wouldn't patch and the repairtool actually broke the client. i checked my mail, checked my skill training. chatted somewhat in corp chat, and was online for about 10 minutes and after all that time the station was still loading. soooooo...... while many 3d game developers manage to get load times for 3d maps for games under 30 seconds, ccp can't manage it under 10 minutes for just one room. that is pretty epic fail.and for those vanity items? if i want to spend real life cash in a space game for \"items\" i just use that money to get me a tough upgraded line in battlestar galactica online. which i did btw. not gonna pay for stupid vanity items.rollback seems a reasonable way to go as far as i am concerned. i like ship spinning and i want it back."
"apart from your epic rant, all that really stood out here was:there are votes up at the top of the forum for mt, incarna and ccp overall direction. most of which actually propose a solution, and discuss the issues in some detail. your post here is basically a tirade, take it back to your alliance forums tbh. wtf are you crying about temp bluing for, or blob warfare?? i've never heard more \"spam your corps, spam your alliances, we need numbers\" from anyone as much as nc fcs, seriously, get your head out of your arse."
"not even cosmetic... we should be mining silk to make those hats in game !no!ccp harden up and realize this game is not for the masses. its for us hard core mofos who actually want to micromanage every aspect of our virtual existence... not casual lamers who work during the day for usd so they can pwn with all the pay for buffs that they can afford."
"good news everybody! ccp has announced their plans to release a special can just for miners!it will be called a secure cargo container, accessible by only those with the password! can robbers can no longer steal your goods! i have the prototype blueprints to deposit in to select systems, and can offer personal orders of 50mil isk a can! these cans will never expire! and most importantly, only people with the password can access the can! now, who sets the password you might ask yourself. well, you do! that's the beauty of it! you drop the can and you set the password! you are the only space-faring pilot who knows the password to your can! unless, of course, you share your password with other people. miners rejoice!tl;dr:oh look, its this thread again"
"that's ridiculous. if it was 100%, even 50% nobody would bother trying to steal your loot. (how much is ore worth anyhow? not as much as a ship i'm sure.)which i guess is what you want. (nobody stealing your cans) but then i must ask, why haven't you used secure containers? achieves the same thing."
"then if your afraid to loos your ship... dont . like you said ther not worth the ship right... or grow a pair and take a risk, 50% chans to loos your ship. isnt that the idea of the game, take a risk, go to low sec, go an a misson, go rat, go mine or risk allmost nothing and steel cans... dont take it personal, im not trying to **** off anyone, but im thinking you don't play eve because its essay and safe? you go on missions, low sec, mining, rating. that i know those all have some kind of challenge, so y not steeling."
"non-aesthetic, game changing items you can buy in game with real money would be totally destructive to eve."
"it's not the act of afk cloaking, but the harvesting of the sweet, sweet tears that comes afterwards. oh, and the expensive loot that you collect from destroyed faction fit ratting ships."
"forget the cost in isk, i could feed myself for a couple of days on the amount it costs in $. or pay 1/3 of my weekly rent."
"pointless discussion.if you think it's beyond your price point, then exercise your god given capitalist right to protest it by not buying it. otherwise hold your peace.i wonder if vanity items are \"cloned\" when you get podded. if not, that could be the biggest loss in isk if you get podded wearing your vanity gear. or maybe you only put them on in station, and interbus sends them magically to where ever you go?"
"econ 101 fail.having aur as a plex sink will not have a linear relationship to plex prices as people buy more plex to get aur. it all depends on whether people use real usd to buy plex (which will result in lower plex prices) or if they use their isk to buy plex, (which will increase plex prices). i hardly think that people stock up on plex. i think it is bought and used or put on the market immediately. it's a brilliant plan as it allows ccp to indirectly control the value of plex. (by setting the prices of aur items, of course, they also have to come up with items that people may actually want to buy.)as for the prices in the nobility exchange. no doubt ccp needs to test out the market to see what kind of flow they can generate. it's the noble exchange, meant to be a nice isk and plex sink for rich fat cats. if you can't afford the monocle, that's because you are too poor to."
"i don't see the problem here. ccp will no doubt release more items as they start getting data on who in the community is willing to buy what and at what price. you can't expect them to start the prices low thereby saturating the market with luxury vanity goods (uhhh thereby making them no longer luxury goods) i mean, you think lv bags really cost $900 to make? no, its because you are paying for exclusivity. complaining that you cannot afford them is like a complaining you can't afford that birkin bag. :)at any rate, my point is that this is in no way a fail for ccp. if they find that people don't buy much at the current price point, then they will release the next batch of vanity goods for less, to test out the waters at a new price point. it's not like it costs them anything to run the store, like in real life, so its not a mistake at all, but sound business practice. and its not like just because you didn't like the goods for sale now you will be 'turned off' about the store and never check back. i bet you next release when they advertise the next batch of new goods like quafe or kaalakiota tee shirts etc you will all go clamoring back to the store to check them out."
"silly ccp, why break this window? it is terrible now, revert to old window please.loading the icons is terrible and takes up tons of space."
"hello ccp,i want to know what happened to the drone ai. my drones are suddenly doing whatever they want to do, regardless of my commands. they don't attack in a group anymore and they don't attack who i tell them to. they're also suddenly affected by the destruction of the damsel in distress station.what in the world is going on? this patch was eye candy, but it seems to have pooched a lot of the mechanics of the game. don't get me wrong, i'm all for wis if it gets you more subscribers, but not at the cost of the game i've come to know and love.please, fix the mechanics and restore my love for the game."
"move all external effect modules to high slots sense they do apply negative effect to a target"
"yep. no reason why all of these things shouldn't already be in this incarna patch.ccp just showing us how much they care about the level of :excellence: that they want to display and put into their latest \"upgrades\" to the game."
"you can already buy characters and all the items with money you just convert the plex to isk first. i don't see the change. as long as the items can be sold on the market for isk nothing will change."
"macro mining is not for me but....you should never regulate against something if you cannot enforce the regulation. we all know of chars or alts that do it. it's here and you can't reverse technology. ccps punitive 'holidays' don't seem to be a deterent. so, how about this proposal:a)remove concord protection for macro miners - let them continue but at greater risk of losing their ships and illicit gains.b)make the roid belts spawn less often. miners will have to travel further to find them (possibly to places they wouldn't normally go) and corporations will monitor and defend their local systems more closely.eve is a dog-eat-dog universe, a little vigilante action wouldn't be out of place"
"this microtransactions bull***t had gone too far. this is obvious, that csm still have not enough power to stop this madness. but what can we do about it? cancelling subscription is too extreme at this point, forum whining is something ccp seems used too and immune. what we still can influence at - is ignorance of those features we are not agree with. so here is the deal - if you are alliance or corportion leader, you have a new way to fill your corp wallet. let those guys with monocles in their pictures pay for good. fine them 3bil if you see them wearing that aurum stuff."
"sign up for the party :d"
"kids, this is what will happen to you when you've been in csm for too long."
"in his defense it is a mind-warping experience."
"+"
"i'm ix, and i approve of this message.if i still played the game i'd charge per aur. something like 1 billion per 10,000 aur."
"i don't understand the hate towards microtransactions.i do agree that they are stupid, however they are voluntary.... cpp will probably make some money off of this, but that isn't a problem because someone chose to pay that price for a monacle...."
"this is a communication desaster. mt are not a problem. i am not even sure that micro vs. macro really is a problem : with high prices dreyjo can be sure that economy will not be screwed up by high volumes of items circulating all the sudden... but the fearless leak is and the worries that there's truth behind it. and i believe the csm have enough credibility at ccp and with the community so it is worth they try and fix it. i am really worried when reading what seleene wrote about his experiences from working at ccp : it has grown into a big company of people doing their job -- and fairly well so -- but being fully disconnected from the veteran player, maybe even from the average player. i also believe that eve has shaped ccp to what it is, and it is a profitable enterprise, by the veteran players. i also agree with meissa's position in his blog.i understand ccp is currently laying the ground work for a much larger game universe. i appreciate that and i am willing to watch them build it. but they are so failing in communicating the intermediate steps. giving that terrible still pic when opting out of cq is a communication desaster. the technological short-comings are then only the spark to the oil barrel."
"i'm with you. i plan on wearing no monocle or fancy pants....and using isk that would be spent on that toward fitting the right ship to accomplish my end goal: taking over the universe...which i think might be the goal of us all....really folks, instead of getting worked up over this, let's get back to playing the game. if you want microtransactions to fail in game, don't participate. ccp's going to make decisions based on market trends, just like we do when we decide what to bring to jita to sell, and what to grind up to make things that sell in jita. we're not going to waste our time trucking named survey scanners to market when we can grind them up for the mins to make some ammo, then swap those rounds with lp to get faction ammo to sell. it's supply and demand: if we don't demand, they'll stop supplying....and about cq, yeah, it's a little bit of a let down and the novelty wore off for me in about 89 seconds, but people have been asking about walking in stations for years, and now we've got it. well, kind of...i think the integration with dust and possibly an expansion of wis will add a layer of complexity to the game. in the interim, i'll continue to fly a virtual spaceship for relaxation and socialization with people."
"we will get the notes this coming week i hope? hang in there yall. i know i busted your chops on the notes taking so long but the general forum is rediculas. can't wait!"
"we're concerned that ccp isn't coming to us with specifics relating to the deployment of content. for example we knew about a lot of the content that was coming with incarna and we responded positively to it. and truthfully anyone would have given the fine, fancy and downright cool things we saw. we had positive energy and a positive feeling about the incoming products shown to us. however, we weren't told specifics about things like pricing or exactly how powerful your gaming system would need to be to run incarna or what sort of graphics card factory settings might interact poorly with incarna.but with regards to 'we viewed the content positively', that positive energy we displayed has, at times, been misremembered. we were excited about things that we didn't have specific details about and ccp remembered we were excited and then tied in 'the csm also likes this!' with their ideas and so if the idea goes down in flames we go down with it. (see: the golden scorpion.)but this also sort of provides us with a sticky situation in the sense that the current csm and csms in previous history were ok with the idea of cosmetic micro-transactions so long as they were just that: cosmetic. the reason the csm was ok with it was because the community in general expressed that they too were fine with micro-transactions so long as they were cosmetic and nothing else. in fact i'm now confused about what we're all supposed to be angry about specifically. are we angry about the price of the monacle? are we angry that ccp has added cosmetic micro-transactions? are we angry about the fearless newsletter? or is it all of these things.realistically: the current available items in the nex do not change the way you or i play eve. i think the monacle is too expensive. i don't need the monacle to be able to play eve. the monacle does not make me a better pilot. i do not need the monacle therefore i am not concerned about the price of the monacle. i'd really love to hear someone say they need the monacle and that's why they're outraged. either way these are my opinions and do not necessarily reflect those of my fellow candidates :)"
"actually somebody put up a vote (with over 1000 participants) and after the counting was done, 75% of the voters were against any form of mt. 20 % said vanity only, and 5% said they were ok with mt.i think slightly corporatey:things like those step-by step-introductions are just a way to get further and further to the point of no return.from there on out, it is \"grab as much cash as you can, and can get away with\" it is just sad,seeing ccp going that route.communication is the real problem here, not the item store, nor the monocle.we are way beyond that.and communication had been a problem ever since, but you can see their form of \"iterating on it\" firsthand. they had to install the csm, but they gag it with nda, or keep silent about vital info. so, what is the point of it, if they do not know more (or can't say more) than a devblog?as to the parley: the request for it, must come from somebody, who actually is in a high enough position to negotiate for his/her party.poor showing from ccp to throw \"ccp pann\"(or is it pawn?) in front of the mob,to gain some time.a year ago we were told by ccp shadow, there would be \"no mt in eve!\".(but probably in dust,or wod).lies.the 99$ gate was the slap in the face of the \"heroes\" of the community, that (mostly) provided their services free of charge,and those tools just lack the typical\"unfinished and poorly implemented\"look and feeel, that ccp calls \"excellence\".the :18 month: was a slap into the face of the average player, who does not play \"lagging in stations\" but wanted \"lagging in space\" fixed.and to be honest, i think 500 welped \"tornados\" would have more influence on the plex prices, than your nex shop.\"just a hint\". don't get me wrong, i would like incarna, if it actually works without melting my hardware.and would show my characters the way i designed them.i never asked for dust, or wod,but with the \"doubledipping\" i pay for both too.wait, those drinking buddies from fanfest plan to backstab me?the \"fearless\"-leak gives me exactly this feeling.this, along with some unpopular changes in recent patches.amasses to a quiet substantial amount of rage."
"@op: you didn't really get this \"eve\" thing, did you?"
"why don't they use concorde to populate the low sec and 0.0 sec areas more. everyone in high sec should automatically be charged for being there a part of their wealth. every week, this will make jita less popular. people will make more accounts, then people will be forced to low sec where the people there can't handle the influx, this ignites massive wars and tons of sup cappies will explode into shiny bits thus solving a bunch of issues then suddenly one day highsec explodes and there is only low sec left. then we will no longer have concorde and everyone will live happily in a true sandbox"
"don't fly what u can't afford to lose.no one forced u to choose what u fly or what u carry with u; u chose to fly that hulk and u chose to carry that valuable cargo in a flimsy hauler. so r u saying that it's the pirate's fault for blowing someone up in low sec/0.0 as well? therefore, it's your own fault for your own loss. simple as that."
"sort out alliance and public use of labs so science services can be offered to the general masses. solve some of the station queues and expand the mini proffesion"
"\"cosmetic only\""
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic onlyany game that tries to use mt for game-affecting items becomes crap."
"no my vote, howeveri can live with cosmetic only."
"cosmetic only."
"no'nuff said..."
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only.anything else effects the game in ways that would mess up many things for many players. indy for example, hard work missioning and etc. i don't see why some one should be able to skip all that time and effort i've put into my toon to get were i am just because they are better off then me. other game changing things are just as messy as well, i dont want to see a 1 month old toon bragging about their titan or what ever just because they have enough spare cash. plex for remap meh but plex/aur for factions guns, ships or ammo? no thanks. ive also seen kids steal their parents cards to get into stuff like this so they can be better then their friend who plays it by buying all these in store things. it can make you lose players that way as well. you might have the kid being funded by the parent but they wont be spending money on the in store stuff. am pretty sure most people dont want to be double billed either so you'd have to drop subs for it to be actually effective but with that you open eve even more to bots and annoying 12 year olds granted you will get a boost but it wont be a good one and i don't think you would get more money if did free to play with a market supporting it either. my <U+FFFD>0.02 anyway."
"no"
"cosmetic only.if you say no, you are just being an idiot. what the hell is wrong with cosmetic only store?"
"cosmetic only\""
"[cosmetic only]i don't see a problem with mt if they don't affect gameplay."
"cosmetic only"
"nonoand thrice no!"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic"
"no .."
"chalk me up for a cosmetic only"
"[cosmetic only]anything else would ruin this game, which i don't want to see happen.also, the price needs to be slashed by 75% for vanity items, then people will actually buy them!why on day 1 have you already introduced an item costing 1.5 bil??!! maybe down the line put in several expensive things, but you've gotta have a range of cheap stuff too......"
"no"
"no,but would not fight very hard against cosmetic only.non-cosmetic would be completely different thing."
"no"
"no to mt's."
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic onlyi see no problem with buying standing with isk, maybe 1 billion isk per 1.0 standing for the first four, then 1b isk per next five 0.4 standing, then 1b isk per 0.1 after that up to 9.9.no problem with that. but if standing can be bought for aurum only, and the only way for me to acquire aurum is to buy them with my credit cart, i.e. i can't buy them from other players (who bought them with their credit cards) by paying with isk, then that's a huge problem."
"no.that's not cosmetics only, that's a no."
"cosmetic only."
"no"
"no"
"no"
"vanity only."
"no-> 'cause i want sandpox and mini-professions!"
"vanity only"
"noand for the icelandic, nei!!!"
"no mt ! greedy bastards."
"noi would say cosmetic only, but allowing that leads to complacance which leads to them sneaking it in later."
"no!"
"noccp ****ed up bigtime, i would have tolerated it before, but now it's out of the question."
"cosmetic/vanity only.if people want to spend money on cosmetic crap then good for them. it doesn't bother me and it means the game devs get some hard earned money - game developers generally work long hours with poor pay, they deserve a pay rise if they can get it from these vanity items.let us not forget that ccp has given us many wonderful expansions for free! and if we can support them further to help them reach their goal of providing the ultimate online sci fi experience, for us, then we should!"
"vanity only."
"no! get rid of this aur crap too!"
"vanity only"
"no to aur"
"hell no!"
"no."
"no."
"no"
"no"
"no."
"no"
"no - aur stinks"
"cosmetic only"
"no for sure"
"no."
"no**** you ccp in the *******"
"cosmetic onlyeven tho this whole thing is void since your not objective and your post is leading the reader towards your way of thinking. way to go self proclaimed hero of the people that realy only is a guy thats using people to get what he wants."
"no"
"no&no"
"cosmetic only. no remaps!"
"yes, i vote yes. there is a silent majority in this game that is not vocal and trusts ccp. we are happy with the game and strongly encourage any and all changes towards this new and exciting direction. if you don't like what ccp is doing simply stop playing & have a nice life."
"titans were originally aimed to be an item you would rarely see in the game - when there were only about 5 all up on the server ccp were very happy. this has of course now changed and there are many titans. ccp has openly admitted that them allowing this to happen was a mistake, and that they would prefer if titans were still very few.so of course there will never be plex for titans! ..and i very much suspect there will never be plex for +9 implants or noble ammo, or any other crap you idiots can imagine!"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"no no no no nononononononono"
"hell no!"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"vanity onlydont make my waste real money on my ship mods i pvp thats just gonna hurt the games economy and the players but hey if you wanna have a weird paint job feel free to spend real money cause i honestly dont care"
"no!!!!"
"no"
"yeah, trying to keep the game decent as a concerned player and fan is a terrible idea. just drink the kool aid and everything will be okay.edit: no"
"cometics only"
"no"
"such a stupid, stupid, ungodly stupid idea.hell to the no"
"no"
"no."
"cosmetic only"
"nogod no"
"nothis game lost its innocence long ago, its now a moneymaking machine like wow etc...shame."
"cosmetic only"
"no."
"nomake cosmetics/vanity available at the lp store or allow players to create them instead"
"no"
"no no no no no and no to cq"
"no not much more needs to be said. i have played this game as long as i have because it's the only one out there without microtransactions that interests me. if there has to be a cash shop, clothing and cosmetics only, though from now on i will be ashamed of it even being in the game"
"no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no noif you want to do it do it right. cosmetic only!!!!! and dont make it where a single item costs billions of isk that is ******ed to the maximum. fix the price ffs if you feel the need to do this. also fix the game before getting all greed happy!i apologize about the caps. i feel angry and frustrated and left out in the cold for too long with ccp. i love this game, but am beginning to dislike the company running it. i dont want to quit, but this can not continue! the disrepsect for your players, not really caring, the reason you keep losing players (and therefore feel the need to drown us in 'new content' that only causes even more issues, gaining temporary new subs) is that you have so many things broken to fix. please for the love of new eden fix things more thoroughly before drowning us in new content! captains quarters suck for lag. (perhaps off topic but i feel the need to vent my frustrations)."
"my vote is no, but i won't unsub for vanity only."
"cosmetic only"
"no!"
"cosmetic only!i support ccp, and them wanting to make more money, but it shouldn't affect the game."
"noi'm playing $28 a month for 2 accounts, and ccp wants me to pay more to access parts of eve online, i don't like that idea."
"lol and yes if we all left ccp would be broke and you wouldn't have a game."
"no!"
"no.not now. not ever. they took my money and promised to be nice. now look at them. just another greedy corporate entity ignoring the hands that feed. obviously ccp executive management all went to the g.w.bush school of honesty and integrity.i suppose we should look forward to an ipo sometime in the near future?"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only!it would be great to see a game company make this promise (to make mt items cosmetic only) and keep it. if any company would do that, it's ccp."
"no"
"i don't mind the cosmetic, since there is no way to give another an advantage, but to use it for ships, faction and weapons, would be over the top. i'm new to the game and joined because there was really no way to \"buy\" an advantage."
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic onlyi really hate micro-transactions, but i'd rather have it be cosmetic only than non-vanity."
"cosmetic onlyi've never posted in 4 years of playing this game..."
"no"
"noi have been playing for over 5 years, as of this moment my account renewal has been terminated. i will not be returning due to my dislike of the current events, also the posts and blog(s) of some of the dev's is a bit disheartening...it seems more like they just do not care about the majority.i use to be a swg fan and player, but when soe took over and developed the \"combat upgrade\" i left for greener pastures...i see this happending here, with the advent into console gaming with dust, its no surprise that ccp would possibly want to change things up and make eve more console player friendly to try and get the best of both worlds....it is fitting, i got an email today saying the soe is closing all swg servers by december 15th this year....future of eve?! maybe?"
"no - greed sux. ccp pls dont be like ea and others..."
"noi'm stubborn. generally speaking i feel my sub should cover the game. i realize however that rmt is the norm and the vast majority of people seem to say its ok if its only vanity, so i usually just accept that. but eve is different. one of the major aspects of eve is its economy and even vanity only items will impact that economy. why aren't players crafting and trading these items?plus there is always the 'slippery slope' argument. once it starts and the money is to be made, the threat of non-vanity items being sold becomes ever present."
"no"
"no!"
"noooooooooooooo"
"no"
"no"
"no!"
"not for any game mechanic changing items. vanity knock your barbie vagina off"
"no"
"no."
"no.though i do not believe ccp will ever remove them completely but the prices on the cosmetic stuff atm is just totally ******ed..comparing virtual cosmetic item prices to real life prices shows how clueless ccp is about microtransactions."
"cosmetic only"
"noabsolutely not, we have already paid more than enough for this game, the rest of the in-game content should be free.ccp's view on self expression is simply self serving, it provides the most profit. people have already done this without your more expensive than rl clothes, ever heard of faction fitted faction battleships???ccp has broken the golden rule, video games never ever supersede real life, not in importance, and certainly not in value."
"cosmetic only"
"no."
"no"
"no!!! hell no!!"
"no"
"no"
"noelvis has left the building"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"hell no!"
"noooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo!"
"noooo"
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic onlyme and my significant other agree on this so i'm posting both of our votes as one, but it counts for two.the instant we see game changing stuff in the nex, we will be unsubbing all 4 of our accounts."
"no---------------> if i wanted to play a wow type game i would go play wowwake up"
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"cosmetic only.i won't ever buy vanity items but other people might enjoy this."
"noooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo"
"cosmetic"
"cosmetic onlyi could care less about someone's $1000 japanese boutique jeans, in game, or real life. i do care if some punk comes along and drops enough cash to instantly instantly match/exceed my skill levels, standings, etc. buying items or ships doesn't bother me as its already a mechanic by selling plex. nothing should be done to alter the game mechanics to give one player an edge over another based on how much money they spend. the game was not designed this way and making such alterations is a deep insult to the entire existing player base.i appreciate and encourage the developers to see creative new ways to fund the development of the eve universe, but mt that affect character performance and development are simply too unfair to be considered."
"cosmetic onlyif you want to buy stuff that makes your character/ship look unique then be my guest. you may get a \"that looks cool\" from me or other players but it won't give you any real advantage over any other players, and that's the way it should be. hell if it cost a buck or less i'd probably even be willing to apply a custom paintjob to a ship or two. but that's where it stops."
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"yes"
"no"
"no, what there is now but any expansion would ruin the game and the economy which ccp is so concerned with. thier fail ecuse for not reimburseing player with mods lost as part of thier failures."
"no nein njet nee nao non and however the hell no is written on your little rock in the ocean.."
"cosmetic only, like you promised us before. cosmitic doesn't change game play so i don't care. change game play and you are no better them a half rate facebook game."
"no"
"no. keep the pre incarna ones in place. character transfers, plex/gtc for game time and thats all. remove aur all together as well as the nex store. waste of dev time that could be going to fixing issues with lag or the performance issues with incarna's release."
"no"
"no !"
"no."
"no"
"i vote no to microtransactions in a p2p game."
"no"
"noi would be ok with cosmetic only, but theres nothing micro about the current prices. i like ccp for making the best damn space game ever, but given some of the reading material that has come up today i do not trust them playing with a microtransaction business model. so i must vote hell no."
"noabsolutely not, not now, not ever"
"no!!!!!!!!!!!"
"no"
"cosmetic onlyi don't care if people wanna play dressy up, but i do care if mt affects anything that matters."
"no!when mt were announced i was about to say yes to cosmetic/vanity items only but now, after realizing that ccp wants to expand mt to wider range of 'products' (which are too expensive), i changed my mind.. so, no way ccp! ;)"
"no"
"no"
"no and never"
"no"
"no"
"no!"
"cosmetic"
"no"
"nodo i have to spell it out?"
"no"
"no."
"no microtransactions, but i might accept only cosmetic only."
"no"
"no"
"no, simple enought? ok once again for you, just so you understand, no, as in, no i don't want to give you any more money, as in no i would like to play a game on an equal footiung with people, not compare incomes by what crap i have, as in no i have no interest in giving you any more of what i have worked for, ie money"
"no"
"no."
"no"
"no"
"no."
"no"
"nodoes not integrate well with the existing eve."
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"vanity items only"
"no"
"cosmetic only.i could care less about the monocle or anything like it, i can accept the need for plex but i will not tolerate any advantages bought or sold in the shop."
"no."
"no"
"cosmetics for plex is okay.but the rate needs to be more reasonable.also it would be nice to get more than plex to convert to aurum. maybe converting loyalty points to aurum, that'll be nice."
"wtf.... of course no"
"no."
"cosmetic only."
"noi said \"no\"... hell no!!! which part of \"no\" did u not understand ???"
"nocosmetic only."
"just for the record, you're posting to a thread that's no longer current. the last time the op edited their op was in november of 2010 - 8 months ago. plex for remaps as a feature idea was shot down prior to that last edit of the op."
"no"
"no"
"no mt...worst case scenario : ok for characters.ships paintjob should come frome industry, rare blueprints to discover, and rare ores to refine and combine to create the paint."
"no."
"cosmetic only"
"simply said - cosmetic only. but should be possible to be buyed with isk as well, but maybe with a higher exchange rate."
"no!tbh it's all nothing."
"no"
"nowe pay the sub for full service. i would like to see options to paint my ship and to be able to customize stuff but this should be part just standard available to all subscribers.i do not like consumerism in rl or in eve .. i especially do not like to be double billed or treated as dump cash cow.kick mt in eve ... now."
"no"
"no, a thousand times no."
"yes damned, give us all the juicy stuff, let us pay for every god damn thing, its what we are good for in your capitalistic eyes, more money to the stake holders !!!keep on building more games on our backs that we cant use anyway as it will be on sony request to not release it on pc, better why isnt it entered your brains yet that ccp should open their own rmt shop they dont care about this game anyway as they go on the money tour.time to cancel some of my accounts and look for another game."
"no"
"cosmetic"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic onlybut only if the prices are fair"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only!i can not stress this enough. if actual game items that affect game play are introduced they can and will destroy the game, as the game is focused on the market. anything that removes isk/demand/services already provided via the in-game market forces will have severe consequences to the game, ultimately resulting in a mass exodus of players because their investments in the game can and are being effectively wiped clean with the click of a few buttons. ships, or items which are being generated and added into the game will result in major market changes.the only way i would even accept ships with different paint jobs would be if the \"paint\" happens only to a ship that you already had to purchase or otherwise build/aquire in-game via current market and game forces. to do so otherwise would affect the in-game value of the current items/ships for which you are selling via microtransaction by adding additional supply to the market via external mechanics (i.e. you are waving a magic wand and instantly making something from nothing, not using a blueprint, or building materials, etc., etc.). this will have a butterfly effect on the entire market, not just the specific item you are adding.the same can be said for standing gains. i mean, at that point, why not just make it skill points... oh you don't want to do what to rat or grind missions for that corp/faction, no problem, no more waiting for you. you don't want to sit while you train <enter race here>'s bs level v? no problem, fork over your credit card. you don't want to have to have logistics in place to defend your 0.0? no problem, with a credit card, you too can have an instant ccp-mt fleet arrive to blow up the enemy forces....."
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"\"cosmetic only\""
"no.remove aurum and just use isk. there was nothing wrong with the in-game currency."
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only."
"this is not the plex for remap thread, thats the other threadnought from october last year.while most of you have just realised the ****storm that is possible, i saw it coming a mile off and now that everyone finally understands this thread is even more relevant."
"no!once begun, it's a very slippery slope. i'm poor, i do not have this thing called \"spare cash\" to spend on a new mount/pet/buttstick.also, i believe corporations that put profit before enjoyment of the customers are just psychopathic fictional entities, that no longer bare any resemblance to the human beings that created it. i would only be provided a monster that wishes to devour our real life currency and will do anything to snatch it from our clasps.also, ccp are doing dirty business with microsoft, and i hate bill, he's a noob. i put a \"k\" on \"new\" cus i'm 'tard."
"nooooooooooooooooooooooo!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!"
"no"
"cosmetic onlyi have no problem with people wanting to spend their money to buy overpriced virtual rags that do not affect the gameplay. i couldn't care less about new pants."
"no"
"no"
"no"
"hell no"
"no"
"cosmetic only.as will many others i'm sure, i'll quit if game-affecting mts are introduced, no question."
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"nooooooooooooooo"
"no"
"no"
"hell no!!!!!!!!!!!!!no!"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"no!"
"no!"
"no"
"noi came to eve specifically because i left my previous game that introduced mts"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no."
"cosmetic onlyif stupid people wanna buy pixels then let them"
"no"
"no"
"f*** no!"
"no"
"no."
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"no !!!!!!!"
"no"
"no!"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"no!"
"no!"
"cosmetic only."
"cosmetic only."
"yes"
"no"
"no."
"cosmetic only."
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only. if ccp add any microtransactions to the game that directly affect the gameplay, i will un-sub all accounts."
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"cosmetic only.i'll also point out that most of the \"no\" votes that contain an explanation of how and why they voted no are actually \"cosmetic only but i didn't bother to read the question, i just listend to the parroted propaganda spammed in all the channels by ill-informed morons who told me to vote no\" votes.a few weeks back, rift added a random dungeon finder. because of pressure from a vocal, whiney minority of players, rift's dungeon finder, unlike wow's, does not allow cross-shard grouping. as a result, queue times of several hours are driving players away from the game in droves and back to wow, which is an inferior game but has queues measured in minutes. players who claimed to be acting in the best interests of rift have succeeded in killing the game.if protests from a whiney vocal minority of players - keepers of the one true eve - succeed in forcing ccp to close off future sources of revenue it puts the very future of eve at risk. i can't stop people being stupid, i can only try to persuade them not to do stupid things."
"cosmetic onlyi don't like the idea of mt but i understand eve and ccp need cash to run so if people want to waste their cash then go nuts, ur a muppet if u do, but thats ur right"
"no reason: i am concerned its only a matter of time ccp markets ingame microtransactions for ingame advantage. e.g. faction standings for plex , remaps for plex"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"no.if it remains, eve isn't for me."
"cosmetic onlyfirst no-cosmetic i saw mean end of my subscription"
"no."
"no"
"no"
"no"
"noccp have lost my respect. sadly it is of course inevitable that a small mmo company making a successful niche game will become a bigger company and lose interest in the project that made them successful. ccp have entered that phase of their growth, eve funds dust and wod development in several ways (aside from pure income, wis being a test bed for wod tech for instance), it seems that it no longer funds much in the way of it's own development. \"greed is good\"... with capitalist sheep like kristoffer touborg working for ccp there's not much hope for eve in the long run."
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no microtransaction whatsoever or i will be unsubing both my 2 acounts."
"cosmetic onlyi don't really see it as a problem, if you like to buy a vanity item you do, if you don't, then nothing happens you can still enjoy the game as it is"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"i vote no for micro transaction."
"no !!!!!!!!"
"no!"
"no!i'd rather not have any mt's at all. keeping cosmetics is just one step closer to non-cosmetic mts, and its all something i'd rather keep out of eve altogethor."
"no!"
"no !!!!"
"no"
"no."
"noim paying for 7 accounts, and ccp still wants more?"
"no !!"
"no"
"no!no!and no!"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"no!"
"no."
"no!"
"cosmetic onlyand reduce the nex prices by a magnitude of ten, at least."
"no to incarnano to microtransactionsno to high specs to play the gameno to more abuse from you ccp !respect if you want to be respected !"
"no"
"no or cosmetics onlyi'd hate to see eve going 5$/hour for +100%damage, +100% tracking, +40% armor hp."
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"no. **** ccp"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"no thx.... no"
"no to the whole damn thing subscription or micro transaction not both"
"no!"
"nonononono"
"no"
"[cosmetic only]if people wanna waste real money on monocles it's their look out.don't break the game mechanics by selling everything you hope to acheive in this game (skillpoints included)"
"no"
"noi will quit this game if all my hard work can just be instantly bought, it will be like my rl job was"
"noi already pay for a subscription and ccp has the audacity to ask for more from (not-so-)micro transactions in a form of \"pay2win\"? lol"
"cosmetic only"
"no."
"nopointless and support double standards."
"no. none. remove aur. make blueprints for vanity items and seed them to market. let us make them out of pi or something."
"no !!!!!!!!!!!"
"no"
"cosmetic only.if people really need their horrifcally ugly vanity items then *shrugs* good for them.pay2win is stupid. we know it. you know it. yes you do, come on now"
"no"
"no"
"no!"
"nonot for cosmetic, not for functional, not for vanity, not for anything.nonono"
"cosmetic only"
"no no no...."
"no!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!"
"no"
"no"
"no."
"no"
"as it becomes an issue again - just no. plain no."
"no. no to mt. no to mt. no to mt."
"nooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo! no! no! no!"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"noi would not oppose it if i could trust it stays for vanity stuff only, but ccp already broke their promise of not adding microtransactions to eve, so their word can not be trusted."
"hell no. this isn't because of change. we all want walking in stations but we want it properly. not walking around in a box. who doesnt want to stab your enemy in the neck??!but microtransaction *******s?? microtransaction games are usually free to play not subscription. you can't have both you greedy ****s."
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"noi like this idea"
"cosmetic only"
"no.clothing should be free or obtainable via missions, lp stores. this way encourages people to play game, not just log in, inject lots of cash and look pretty.p.s. so, plex for ponies wasn't a joke?o_o"
"no!!!"
"cosmetics only!!!!!!!!!"
"no, f no!, if you introduce vanity items make the game free to play like teamfortress 2 did."
"virtual ***** - 20 aurpet parrot to fly next to your ship - 40 aurvirtual girlfriend - 150 aurgetting your ass kicked on the way for groceries - pricelessmorale \"dum-dum, get a life\", who needs that **** anyways?"
"no."
"[no]"
"cosmetic onlyi'm okay with cosmetic/aesthetic items that won't affect the balance of the game."
"no. simply no."
"no"
"no"
"no."
"no"
"no."
"no!!!"
"no!!"
"no!"
"no definately not, ccp have a great chance here to create a new area within the eve internal market and they're messing it up by introducing clothing items as an extremely expensive way for us to hand over more real life money to them.what should be in game is a new skill and production set for players to create personal clothing, equipment and weapons, this would be a very interesting and could also be rather dynamic new area for players to get into.think special designs, fleet styles, etc..."
"no!"
"mo mt!"
"cosmetic onlyalthough i think any option will be ****ed all over by ccp anyway"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no i can see this destroying the game. if ccp can not see to the long term in this, it is doomed to fail.let some idiot spend his hard earned money, playing dress up dolls... if it gets to the point that people can buy things to give themselves advantages over other players, i would be done the day they announce it."
"no"
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only.at a reasonable price though."
"no"
"no"
"no. and give me my fittings back. for free."
"no x 3 accounts. i won't bother to log all three accounts on."
"nope, until then subscription cancelled"
"no"
"no!"
"no, plz"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"i would rather not have any mt at all, however, for extra stuff that does not improve your gameplay i suppose it would be fine. i say fine, only because some people like useless garbage, and if they are willing to pay for it, let them fund it, instead of using our subscription fees on vanity stuff. as long as they can guarantee that it will never ever turn into providing an advantage to another player.tldr cosmetic only (would be happier with no, but meh)"
"cosmetic only"
"noor to further clear it up: no, as in \"no\", \"nein\", \"non\" ...i mean ... it's either \"pay 2 play\" or \"free 2 play + micropay\", now both? now next time you guys have a vulcano going off next door, don't sniff everything coming out of it, this is _wrong_ !"
"yes"
"no"
"no."
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"no! never!"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"noif not - vanity only (and remap/standing is not vanity)"
"a loud resounding no."
"cosmetic only"
"no!i will sub again if micro-transactions are axed and eve remains balanced and gets the tweeks they promised! till then a big no from me!!!!"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"no!"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"no."
"no"
"no"
"vanity only"
"cosmetic onlyif u have too much money go buy cosmetics to make eve better, but nothing else..."
"no !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"no. if there's no other choice, cosmetic only."
"hell no."
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"no****in no !!!!!!!!!!!!!"
"no, oh god noseriously, are we playing farmvile now or what?"
"no"
"cosmeticpersonally, i don't care if some one wants to buy a pair of eye decorations for that much money. however, the day mt goes outside the following is the day i quit: cosmetic / vanity items only no advantages whatsoever (aka: anything beyond purely cosmetic to person/ship/station environment.), including: no skillpoint gains, either indirectly via % sp/hour boosters (ie: 2% sp gain for {n} days) or directly via just buying {n} % or direct skillpoint increases (direct being stuff like \"500k sp = {n} aurum, percent being {n}% increase to total sp costing {n} aurum.). no remapping (either indirectly by adding another remap point or simply paying to bring up the window again) no in-game products purchasable with aurum that can't be made with bps (aside from cosmetic/vanity). for instance, if i can buy a megathron from this, i want it to be the same megathron i can make with a blueprint (vanity/cosmetic aside). no being able to buy extra active character slots. ie: i pay {n} aurum to make it so i can train 2 characters at a time. no being able to buy increased sov gain (or anything of the sort) from aurum. nothing related to sov changes, alliance or corp operations will be effected by aurum. the day an alliance can pay to win = i quit.also, my use of the word aurum in this can apply to whatever micro transaction currency you want to come up with.and this is just a suggestion but, if these ideas really are just something you wanted people to dream up for a stupid newsletter then you should really reconsider. it's moronic at best to stick something that would **** the community off so much in a pdf document that could be leaked. that in itself shows a severe lack of judgement. that should be a at table discussion only, honestly."
"no. no. no. pay2win means i unsub permanently, even if you remove it later. all trust that you're trying to make a good game will be gone."
"nononononononononononononononononononononononononononononothts a no!"
"no"
"cosmetic only!!"
"cosmetic onlya wide selection of reasonably priced cosmetic items (say, 1 plex worth of aurum should let you buy 5-10 items, definitely no single item worth more than 1 plex)including non-incarna specific stuff, like custom paint jobs for ships would be awesome. obviously i'd rather have them for free, but i would be willing to convert a plex or 2 if i thought i was getting decent value for money, and that should not mean \"it costs as much as an irl one would\".oh, and edit to add that there should not be any actual benefit to any of these things at all. looks alone."
"absolutely no!"
"cosmetic only"
"no!"
"no mt ffs"
"no."
"nobecause eventually it'll move to buying special ammo and special ships with real money. i pay for eve every month and i don't pay to pay again."
"no!!"
"no"
"no...if the question was answered \"would game changeing items be entered into this store at any point?\" then we would know where we stand. that statment has not been made so we dont know how far this will goso not acceptible"
"[cosmetic only]in my opinion, there ios no probleme with cosmetic item. they're not going to change the awsome eve's gameplay."
"plain and simply no!"
"no.unacceptable. there are many reasons why, but the basic fact is, a game (especially one with a recurring, monthly subscription fee) should simply not be so -additionally- expensive to play (and by \"play\", i mean carry out all the actions within the world that are featured within it, eg. clothing acquisition, neural remaps, whatever). i mean, wtf does the $19.99 a month pay for? just basic server maintenance...? is that all we get for money... lol.i came back to this game after an almost 2 year absence this month, and if something drastic isn't done to remedy the situation, i'll be gone again... with less justification to ever return. you are welcome to try my resolve, hilmar. :p"
"no,but wont rage at cosmetic only as long as there is a coomitment to remain cosmetic only."
"yes, if only because i'm really ****ed off at the protestors."
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"this."
"cosmetics only"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no!"
"absolutly no"
"no microtransactions (or other such stuff) that would give anyone anything that she can't buy with isk (and that way with a plex sold on market) anyway. whether you see this as a yes, no, or \"what time is it\" is up to you, dear reader"
"cosmetic only"
"no."
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"hell no to rmtbuying isk from isk sellers are band as it gives a player an edge in game if u have money spare in real life. eula has been quoted so many times saying real money for isk is band now ccp want the real money its ok? double standards me thinks there."
"no! ... hell no!... and bring more 0.0 content please u guys are slacking so bad its not even funny"
"i vote no to microtransactions. i have played and worked hard the last several years i have been playing eve (nearly 5-6 years now) and have spent well more that i would like to think about in subscription fees. i should not have to shell out more money just to be able to \"buy\" clothing for my character so that i can make them look different. this i an mmorpg, this isnt an html/java/flash based web game you play on facebook. btw, if i find evidense supporting the myth/belief that ccp is considering allowing ppl to \"buy\" skill points, i know of several ppl, myself included that will mostlikely be leaving eve. once the ability to buy skill points is allowed, the fun, and drive that makes eve what it is will be gone, and there will be no point in remaining. and to all those vultures out there, no you can not haz my stuff, if i do end up leaving eve, my stuff leaves with me, you wll just have to work hard and earn your stuff like everyone else. oh wait no you wont, just get a plex and buy it with rl money. just dont get caught commiting rmt unless it with via plex with ccp."
"cosmetic only"
"absolutely nooooooooo"
"nnnnnnnnoooooooooooooooooooooooo"
"cosmetic only"
"nooooooooooooo"
"no, eve online is not a game where micro-transactions should be apart of, ever."
"cosmetic onlythe ablity to buy ships ammo and skillpoints is not only unfair to those of us that have put in tons of time and invested money over the yrs. but also brings in an outside influence (class) .. should someone that makes more money than others be allowed to advance faster through the game? no skillpoint trades no ship trades and no advanced items trade"
"cosmetic only (would have preferred none at all, but since the code is already written...it would let ccp save some face)."
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only."
"cosmetic only"
"no!"
"cosmetic only"
"no!"
"nostop kiddys stealing the parent's money ! :d"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"[cosmetic only]"
"no !"
"no"
"no!"
"no"
"cosmetic only!!!!! if at all. i dont see any problem with people buying hats and stripes on thier ship, and if they want to do this with thier visa... cool, they will just get thier new shoes ganked by a pirate for ransom anyway :), i like the plex thing, and its cool, but buying **** that makes you a better character in any way is wrong. come on ccp, i know money is cool, but isnt creating a social network/videogame that everyone enjoys cooler? i would be so ****ed if i skilled my character for years and got consistantly popped by a 12 year old with his moms credit card, but i would have no problem with that kid giving you some of his moms money for a quafe t-shirt and a flame on his burst. please think with your heart, not your accountants wallet. thanks for your time ccp, and thanks for creating this voting post. btw, join the riot act if you look forward to seeing tears flow from behind some fancy sunglasses bought with rl money : )"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"nooooooooo"
"no"
"no"
"no or cosmetic onlyi am tired of jita and amarr being ****ed right now...got popped in jita a few minutes ago cause of the revolt going on in there...instead of ****ing over your fellow players why dont you voice your opinion on the forums and file a petition rather than getting the ban hammer from ccp. everyone in the trade hubs firing on the memorials are giving ccp a good laugh and will acomplish nothing. if you really want to show off and show your displeasure with ccp how about staging a day when no one logs in to the game period, hurt their numbers and show them that if they go forward then there will be no one left in the game to fund their paychecks, programmers or anything for that matter. stick it where it counts pilots, we are the elite mmo players, we are not star trek online, we are not champions online or star wars galaxies or any lame epic fail game like that. we are the elite players of the world, so lets make sure it stays that way, just dont do it in the trade hubs. thanks for your time"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"nowe didnt needed it in the old days, we dont need it now to continue this great game"
"**** no!!!"
"cosmetic only, if at all!"
"cosmetic only<edit> i don't understand why so many people think it's wrong to have them if they're optional non-game changing vanity items? if you don't like them...you can ignore them. be realistic ccp isn't a charity...if they want to make money on vanity items that don't break the game...let them."
"no."
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"no."
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no!"
"no ."
"no. as in... no."
"hello@allnogreeting r2d2"
"nolast week i would have been willing to compromise on cosmetic only.now after the events of the past few days i don't trust ccp anymore. i'd only be willing to compromise on the team that's responsible for the events of the past few days to pile into a bus and drive it into a volcano."
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"moin moinno"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no to all microtransactions ingame."
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"do you really think ccp give a f**k about us?, they are more concerned with milking what ever is left to concentrate on their other fails. i dare a ccp mod to reply to these posts, someone in ya company has the right idea, as who ever it is has leaked documents good on ya ;), and don't get onto us about breaking your eula by trying to crash the server, you have done a good job at doing that ya self already.i vote no to any new mt what so everno"
"cosmetic only!loyal ccp players had to earn their skill points over time; allowing new players to obtain them in any other manner is just wrong. the skill-training is an attractive feature of this game for many adult players. it is one of the reasons i enjoy the game. to make this re-map change, would turn eve into just another star wars galaxies."
"no"
"no"
"no!!!!!!!!!!!!!too allowing anything that means the long term player who has been loyal to ccp is nerfed in any manner. eg remaps that let palyer get skill points faster would be doing just that."
"no"
"cosmetic onlymore mt is the end of eve...."
"no!"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only...with option to buy per isk ingame"
"a stern no from me"
"vanity items are fine. definitely no to anything remotely affecting actual play of the game !"
"no, unless like guild wars etc its free to play. not double dipping/billing. that is illegal in several states in america actually."
"no"
"no"
"noagainst any type of micropayments for ingame superiority."
"cosmetic only, with a caveat: no interaction with plex whatsoever. aurum must be separate from the market on its own.if this is not possible, then 100% no."
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no."
"cosmetic only"
"no.maintain the current system, plex/isk is more than sufficient for those who wish to and helps those of us who wish to pay for our game time with in-game currency."
"no"
"cosmetic only.i'm not too bothered with the cosmetic items, but selling items and especially things such as standings is wrong and will ruin eve."
"no"
"no!!"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only.anything else is a game killer."
"cosmetic onlythat way, nothing game-impacting can be bought."
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"nothere's no place for an item mall kind of thing in a game where you pay to play each month.i currently have 3 accounts and i'll unsub all of them if this stuff go any further than cosmetics"
"yes.as long as isk to plex to vanity/special items can still be done, the more experienced players will not be affected (time to start using those saved up billions) and for newer players or older players starting a new character it can be a nice way to be able to come into the game proper.though i am biased in this, the more plexes are sold/bought, the more isk i make"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic onlyno items that affect game balance, unless eve changes to free-to-play model!"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"no"
"no way. i still mean everyword but not a lot was ontopic so in the name of sanity i am removing it to a txt filestill high ****ed off though"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"no."
"no, definitively."
"no, no and no or i close my three accounts !"
"cosmetic onlynuff said - every word more would be wasted"
"no!"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic onlywhether you/i like it or not.. aurum/nex are here to stay...."
"no"
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only."
"cosmetic only please"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"cosmetic only.paint your ship, wear a gorilla mask, buy a shopfront in jita when wis launches, fly a luxury non-combat racial yacht but you have to earn/mine iskies/minerals in game and train skills to buy the ship, buy the stuff you sell in the shop, or increase your personal fittings/amount of trades you can do; just as now.for dust do as you want because they are mercenaries anyway, as long as it doesn't impact of eve gameplay sufficiently to tip the game balance if bill gates decides he wants to pay to \"take the dronelands\"!"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no."
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only!...and only concerning the character itself. changing skins of ships is too much i'd say."
"[cosmetic only]i don't care when people want to spent their money to buy a fancy virtual t-shirt, grape soda or tampons to satisfy their fetishes.what people in consent do behind closed doors doesn't concern me. let them have their \"sims in space\". but i do care when people are able to buy benefits in combat. and no, it's not the same as in selling plex for isk. because someone had to \"create\" that isk in the first place, and someone had to grind the resources for that fancy ship, or grind lp to buy those fancy implants or bpcs in a lp store. so it's not the same."
"no."
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only!no in game bonuses, it ruins games!!!! i pay 15 a month to not deal with it!!"
"no"
"nocosmetic only, because i'm so beautiful..."
"noi pay for this game so i want the full access to every feature"
"nononononohave i made myself clear?"
"\"cosmetic only\"i don't care if people want to spend $70 on a monocle; just don't let people buy performance-enhancing items that give an edge. i'm actually on the fence about if it should be used for sp, too. i think it could be a good extra revenue stream for ccp to allow people to accelerate training or flat-out buy sp. people already buy characters for the sake of saving time on training, so maybe it'd be alright to buy sp with the new currency. don't make it cheap enough that everyone would do it, but for the rich who just want to save time it could be a win/win for the player and ccp/but do not allow actual items to be purchased. if i see premium ships/mods/ammo, i'm leaving and never coming back. leave that stuff for dust514."
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"a big yes"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only. i don't want some rich kid who's father is a snobby lawyer to come in here and start upsetting things because his dad has a lot of money."
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no!"
"no"
"no."
"no!"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"no!hell noooooooooo"
"6 year of monthly game payments to allopw some rich nubtard to get what i've worked my ass off for?no"
"no!"
"no"
"nocanceling sub nowsee you all in battlefield 3 where you pay once and thats it"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"noscrew this more pay 2 winwhere is the middle finger button on this keyboard"
"strange ppl havent notice this was already the case incarna or notmoney-> plex -->isk--> whatever you want ingame"
"no"
"cosmetic only (and only if there are some few (approx. 10k)"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"no."
"no."
"cosmetic only.+ also add free content on a regular base."
"cosmetic only is fine. no items which give any game advantage. trophies of wealth should be ok."
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only."
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"cosmetic only the fact they're even considering the idea of purchasing items to give you an advantage over other people is just a bad idea, not to mention completely unfair. i really think that ccp screwed the pooch on this one.."
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"no.cosmetic only will not cause me to leave but if it gets into functional items you can count me out. i have 2 accounts and have played since dec 2007 and feb/march 2008 for the second. my sloppy math says that's around $1100-1200 so far with no end in sight. for comparison, excluding eve i spend about $150 a year on games (3x retail games). that works out to around $500 over the same period of time. alienating customers like me would be a poor business decision."
"hell no"
"at best cosmetic only"
"no"
"cosmetic only.i am willing to let ccp expand their options and economic base, but not at the risk of gameplay. the shifts in plex prices would be enough. i would prefere aurum being purchased alone and not convereted from plex, a market well outside our markets, so that only optional purchases can effect optional cosmetics."
"nowhy try to claw money out of ppl's hands by bringing in a new currency system when enough ppl buy gametime to convert to plex and sell it on the market everyday.they always speak so proudly of the eve economy and how it's all in the hands of the player so why not keep it that way and have everything cost isk like it should.now ppl are even discussing to increase the amount of the subscription fee to keep mt away but this is equaly disgusting to even suggest it.how about not being so f*****g greedy and stop trying to change the best thing in the game which was the stand alone economy"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only."
"no ! ! ! saying cosmetic will only lead to them seeping in the other stuff, i'm cancelling my subs until further notice."
"cosmetic only"
"*no*"
"no.definitely !"
"no"
"no"
"no!"
"no."
"nodefinitively no no no and no !!!!"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"noeve makes a monthly charge which i pay, all content should be available for this. whilst financially i can afford to pay for extras i am against it on principle as not all players can. it will give some players advantages over other less well off and unbalances the game play mechanics. ccp should be ashamed of themselves for even considering it."
"plain _no_!"
"hell no !!!!"
"no"
"cosmetic only very strictly"
"no"
"no no no"
"no"
"no"
"no! micro transactions will destroy eve.i vote: no"
"i vote no"
"no"
"no"
"no!"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"no"
"no !!"
"no !"
"nooooooooooo"
"cosmetic only."
"no !"
"no"
"cosmetic only!but for the love of god, make micro transactions actually micro. 50 dollar monocle? no thanks."
"no"
"no"
"no!!!"
"vanity only.only stuff that won't give an advance to people who pay ccp should be in nex market"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"no - hell no..."
"nooooooooooo"
"no"
"cosmetic only."
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no!maby for vanity if is on a scale of 100. not these bs prices."
"no"
"no"
"vanity only! and i mean only. if that can't be done, then there should be none at all."
"cosmetic onlyand that is only if the prices drop."
"no"
"vote cosmetic"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"no. buyin plex for isk is enough of an advantage."
"cosmetic only-it's the only way i can validate keeping plex (time codes). the cognitive dissonance would otherwise abound."
"cosmetic onlyonly! +maybe a ban on snide, condescending devs, not to mention 'stay the course'? really? come on hellmar"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"how about no."
"cosmetic only.......reasonably priced i might addi do not know how many of you know of lord of the rings online. if you do, then you are aware of thier point store and cosmetic system. while the genre's are different the premise is the same. no gear that gives you an overt advantage. and the prices are reasonable, especially since you can earn points in gameplay. i realize thier system wont work in eve as it has for lotro. but its at least a template that could be looked at by ccp. ok thats it, take care"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no, no and once again... noooo!!!!"
"the voting choice descriptions in the op completely detract from the value of the thread. if you want to be taken seriously, speak plainly. vote: cosmetic only, with reasonable prices. then again, if there are those who care so little about money that they are willing to pay 80 dollars for pixels they don't own, then sure, go ahead and profit off them, for the short time you can. just don't act shocked when it blows up in your faces, like it is now."
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only but fix the fing lag and bugs in station first! i spend almost my whole session timer loading the cq. and then the steam on either side of the balcony changes all kinds of funky colors."
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetics only."
"no"
"yes!!!!"
"no"
"no"
"yes"
"yes!!"
"no"
"hell yes!"
"[cosmetic only]depends.microtransactions for portrait/plastic surgery or other aesthetical changes up to and under special circumstances including namechange - maybe.microtransactions for vanity items in game that do not yield any practical advantage - maybe, but i'd rather see the development time for that go to things that are actually useful.microtransactions for items/changes that give the buyer an actual ingame advantage over others - clearly not. that shouldnt be the case in any game, and even less in one thats subscription-based too."
"of course, so yes!!!!"
"yes"
"as a rule i think mt are dum, but i will vote:cosmetic onlyi voted cosmetic only as ccp will never remove something they have already put in game, plus if some d icks from secound life wont to play money to just dress up in eve, well its just more ppl for me to kill, also it should keep my subs down. so i am all for that.as long as it says cosmetic only"
"sure! bring em on, i would welcome other options in the game, however they have to maintain a certain balance! yes i'd love more micros in the game!"
"cosmetic only."
"no, mt should be removed.this can and will get out of hand with time."
"cosmetic only."
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic onlyi want pink paintjobs for my frigs! :d"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic onlyand no to the current price level."
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"yes."
"cosmetic only"
"no."
"no."
"no."
"n---n--oonn--n-o--on-n-n-o--on--nn-o--on---n--ooneverrrrrrrrrwe are not a cash crow, you have talked on end on about perfection and nor you wan to become like aria game, gpotato, ijji, gamecampus and many other low rank comp who only copy what was do again a tousen of time. we give you like 15 to 45$$ every month like is was a investisement in the futur of video game. so nor, go back in the good way. dont touch a that hell ****"
"cosmetic only. you shouldnt be able to pay for an edge in game just because you make more money in real life. skill cant be bought, only waited on when your sp gets there"
"no."
"no. no mt at all."
"no"
"cosmetic only."
"no!"
"no.just say no to cheating!"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only.i wouldn't mind paying a few bucks for a sash with a corporate logo on it or a custom white robe and hood for archie or to decorate my quarters but that's it. no ingame advantage should arise from real world wealth. we pay the monthly subscription and we have access to the game and it's items and it's basically a level playing field. seeing something like this would be very disappointing.archie"
"no no no"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic onlyand some other things, not appropriate here.thx,st."
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only."
"no - take that **** out of our eve"
"no. i don't even like the idea of plex, but i can overlook it since it doesn't really change the way the economy works."
"hell no."
"no"
"no...cos they will only sneak it in later."
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"no."
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"no"
"no."
"nope!"
"****. no.in case that didn't get through, no."
"no !"
"no"
"ship painting and new cloths yes , the rest deffenetly no!!!!"
"noeve online is enought expensivemaybe if it was a freetoplay why notbut we pay and we should pay again for customiz our avatar? lol"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"no."
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"no"
"no."
"no,no,no..."
"no"
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only-2 subs if not."
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no, noway, never"
"no"
"no"
"no.keep your greedy lil hands off my real life wallet ccp."
"bump."
"cutscenes would be cool, but they would have to be done properly - ie, not generic cutscenes for everyone, but actually have them rendered with your own avatar - for them to really work well.supported regardless, though."
"yes, captain's quarters needs to be optional - a player should be able to choose for his character to get out of his pod.we don't need cutscenes however, although they would be a nice addition for many players i'm sure."
"this is exactly how i imagined it would be.+1"
"support."
"9.82098E11"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"sounds good, doesn't remove it, but doesn't force it upon you.-senjo"
"well done post op.i support this, this is what needs to be done!"
"+1excellent idea."
"your points:1) what if they delete the mail? how many times have you read the concord notices or the insurance claim notifications? plenty i'm sure. so if people can change names willy nilly, i'm betting you will get a couple of name change notifications a week. now you can go on and update all your contact lists, but the point is that adding anything to making the process of tracking people harder is a negative, no matter how you try to spin it as 'not so bad' it will never be good.2) progress? i don't see how adding a new loophole is progress. regulated or otherwise. the net effect is more exploits. perhaps if you plug one of the other loopholes first before you add this new one, then you can perhaps call it a net-net even steven.add name changes with the existing toon transfers, and you are only encouraging more toon farmers.3) yeah, no need to argue this one. i threw it in there because it was mentioned by someone as a 'reason' for needing name changing. it is a digression from the main topic, so not worth debating over."
"yes"
"yes"
"i support this"
"yes, finally this unnecessary and rather useless change makes sense. it was the first step to charge players for extra save slots. shame on ccp for this."
"i couldn't understand why we had no response to this simple and easy to fix issue...i even asked this question in the 'ask a dev' thread and expected this simple question to be picked early as low hanging fruit....little did i know they were considering selling us back this functionality we once had for free for mt (that's macro transactions btw)i request people sign this petition, and tell ccp what we think about this idea...without using crude obscenities please....i would like to keep the moral high ground."
"is there really that many guys that can fly enough ships to need more than 50 fittings saved, without being able to memorize their standard fits for alot of them? i mean you tend to end up running a simmilar philosophy about most of your ships fittings.on the other hand, why put a limit on local storage. guess i support this.edit: and to be fair, the thing about selling more fitting slots was on the page dedicated to yes!/no!, where 2 devs discussed their own oppinions and ideas."
"support or it won't be long before you only are allowed 50 bookmarks and 'pay' for the rest.got my vote"
"x for option to get ship hangar back, even if its only for static view."
"support"
"optional, cq needs to become optional and players should then choose to leave their ship and enter the cq (and for future expansions other areas within the station).^^ thismany times a player will dock and then almost instantly undock (for many reasons). in such a case, when considering immersion, the captain/pilot/capsuleer wouldn't have time to get out of his ship and go to his quarters just to get back straight on to his ship again.but immersion and rp aside..ccp must understand that many of their subscribers have multiple accounts - if these players are no longer able to have multiple accounts running at the same time, then there will be a decline in active subscriptions and as thus a loss of income for ccp.**edit*** there is an option to turn cq off already and i've read that ccp already has plans to re-introduce the ability to spin your ship - due to high demand"
"+1 support"
"^thisalso, find out what's causing the graphics card / cpu to overheat .... i can't dual-box anymore without fearing that my freaking laptop will melt down.^and thisand, it may just be me, but there is something just wrong about undocking while your character is starring up at his ship."
"not that i think anyone really cares, or should care, for that matter, but i've reconsidered my heretofore resistence against making this optional. some excellent ideas have been mentioned in one of the latest threadnoughts, and i now support the proposal."
"should be able to dock, view ship as old times, click button to climb out.i dont want to stare at a metallic door or a poorly rendered version of my char.that being said, i am waiting for my account to expire and will be back in a few months/next year to test the water.i'm keeping my stuff, so no, you can't have my stuff.been fun ccp, until now."
"not sure if anyone has noticed this yet. but you can infact dissable the cq if you want. the option to do so is in the options menu in-game."
"/signed"
"i'm in.disembark option would be nice."
"i agree."
"what ghurthe said says it all.ccp displayed a model where you had the option to stay in the pod or to go clean up and walk around.the option is what we support.the option is what we want."
"there are people that don't mine.there are people that don't build.there are even people that don't ever undock.why should anyone be forced to walk in stations?incarna-as-choice"
"i ll be brief as on cell reading all that is goin on far from home. i have seven full accounts and believe me ccp if you don t bring the dream back the dream that eve has been until now, you will loose me and my seven full accounts, by d way i have a super gaming computer 8gig memory super graphic card and i cannot login all my toons and play and mine and give support with my fleet any longer since incarna, what d hell have u done!"
"i ll be brief as on cell reading all that is goin on far from home. i have seven full accounts and believe me ccp if you don t bring the dream back the dream that eve has been until now, you will loose me and my seven full accounts, by d way i have a super gaming computer 8gig memory super graphic card and i cannot login all my toons and play and mine and give support with my fleet any longer since incarna, what d hell have u done!"
"it should not show anything when you have 0 aur. so supporting this."
"+1remove from game?"
"agree with the opt-out of aurum, don't mind the placement of the isk amount"
"-1aurum is here to stay. it should have a value listed in-game, whether you choose to buy some or not."
"1.0"
"2.0"
"1.0"
"i agree with the motion.option to not display aur is needed"
"supported.yet, i would rather have option to disable the \"noble\" store altogether (the extra button i have no desire to ever use while docked at station is also a bit annoying)...so you disable the \"noble\" store it suppresses both the button while docked, and the aur on the wallet."
"1.0"
"not going to get aurum, no need for a aurum balance. get this stuff out of my sight"
"that would be great. also why must it have a different colour? it looks awful in the ui imo"
"1.0"
"yes, please!"
"please bring it back and quickly."
"i do sincerely believe that the program should be put back in the game. with mining ops and other loot based missions that the fleet leader is responsible for figuring out who gets what and how much; it is the only program in the game to allow that to be done correctly and fairly for all concerned. if the fleet leaders have to try to do it manually, i am afraid that would be enough to cause them to either quit the game or quit running missions of any kind that involve a fleet. and that would make a whole lot of people move on to other games which we don't want to happen. so please listen to the people that play the game and reinstall it."
"agreed, especially since it doesn't always close when i click that x the first time.but i think thats more my fault, older pc.but yes as said before"
"agreed, but then i also think it'd be nice if you could hotkey clicks of the mouse. it gets annoying after awhile when every time you're in space and try to hit something that uses control you lock a target."
"you can, hit esc then go to keybinds/hotkeys (or whatever it is) and switch the bind. warpto=mouse3 autopilot=mouse4 i just wish you could assign two bindings like having ctrl+s or mouse4 = autopilot"
"i've just spent the last few hours reading thread after thread, post after post, and there are a few things i've noticed that have caused me some concern.i felt it necessary to point out to people that it is important not to mistake speculation for fact, and also to be aware that there are clever people in these forums who will find some ways of manipulating information and making you see it how they want you to see it. what's worse is that some people have gone so far as to make you vote in a situation where the poll was rigged from the beginning - the vote does not offer the required options available for selection for it to be counted as a fair vote (the whole thing is biased and manipulative - the person who created the votes really does not care whether you say yes or no, as both of these options are alternatives to what the op doesn't want - micro-transactions). if your voting poll is in fact fair then i am not referring to yours.i say let the facts be heard and let people make up their own minds; without the deceiving & manipulation.let trustworthy information that isn't biased and hasn't been manipulated be available. i will try to keep this thread updated and add your input to the 2nd post when i receive it - references and ways of verifying your claims appreciated.disclaimer: i do have my own opinions however i will do my best to be unbiased whilst posting in this thread (despite that you may have seen me rage in other threads).----------------------------thank you to noriko for this: ccp zulu blog - 2011.06.24**edit** new **edit**i would like to thank people for their constructive responses (including replies to my posts in other threads). i accept that we must do more than just use words - however will still not think it's cool to be just plain rude/nasty/dis-respectful/deceptive/manipulative like other people have been.also, i have a feeling, after reading so many posts from other players, that ccp won't be removing the vanity items as they've worked so hard on it etc. and many players are happily using it.i do believe however they will be doing something about the captain's quarters and i've also read somewhere that they were already considering adding a ship-spinning feature before this debacle even began.cheers**/edit**"
"edit: i have added 2 new entriesfacts:- ccp has introduced micro-transactions into the game.- ccp plans to introduce more.- the items available thus far are vanity items only - they do not enhance character abilities or give players any kind of advantage**(for those who may have difficulties grasping the english language i will let you know that these vanity items are essentially 'fashion accessories' for your avatar)- vanity items have no 'direct' effect on you as a player- ccp has stated that they will not be introducing any character enhancing items or ways in which players will be able to purchase some form of advantage (aside from trading plex for isk of course, and i guess you could consider attribute remaps too).- ccp is a company, and like all companies need to make money in order to survive and fund further expansion/projects - it has been quoted by many business experts that companies need to expand in order to survive (this is general knowledge for anyone who's completed a business degree in recent years).- many of the game developers within ccp work long and hard hours to provide us with this game world that we all play - and the expansions are free!- it is ccp's goal to make eve the ultimate sci-fi experiencerecently added- it has been mentioned that ccp want to charge for 50+ fittingsnew!- journals/articles are often biased and will twist and manipulate information making you think the way they want you to think - be careful not to fall for this, do your research and make up your own mind!(if i've missed anything then let me know)**apparently there is a re-map option and this is seen by some players as giving a character an advantagespeculation and opinions (not fact):- many players fear that ccp will not keep this promise and that this introduction of micro-transactions is the first step towards a system where character enhancing and advantage/superior items will be introduced.- many players are accusing ccp as being selfish and greedy and that they ignore player's needs- game developers are generally on quite low pay considering the hours they work; and many players believe that ccp is deserving of more sources of income if they can get it- extra income sourced from micro-transactions will either go to the well deserving game developers and/or will go towards funding projects so that ccp may achieve their goal of the 'ultimate sci-fi experience'possible 'indirect' effects of micro-transactions and vanity items:- the ccp ceo and head-staff will be able to purchase luxury items such as hot/fancy sports cars and have outrageous items like self-flushing, heated toilets and diamond encrusted chandeliers hanging from their office ceilings.- players might get jealous that their character's rivals can afford to have cool t-shirts and fancy monocles for their avatar- ccp game developers who're on less than impressive pay might actually get the pay they deserve for all their hard work- ccp will use the extra income to fund more projects and create more awesome games for us to play.. and/or improve existing ones"
"thanks for adressing this issue.i'm so bugged of this ****sstorms due to \"insert trivial issue\".if you don't like this f***ing monocole then don't buy it!if you want it then play eve, make the money and buy it, but please shut the f**k up.btw: ccp zulu blog - 2011.06.24"
"don't forget to support this thread (if you do in fact support it - check the box where it says \"check here if you want to give your support to the idea/discussion going on\" which is found under the preview check box).cheers"
"hate to burst your bubble guys, but there are some real problems betwwen the community and company. hilmar's email sums up his thoughts about the community."
"i just stopped right here and had a nice lol irl how players base or at least the winners can be so hypocrites.plex is micro transaction giving you and advantage in game over some one not using plex -hello? turn your brains on!while this plex has served all the multiboxing macro and bot users until now to play the game for free, what do you think it will happen if over 50% of the available plex in the market just goes right in aurum?i'm telling what it will happen, you'll see a lot more subs pay with real money. that's what's getting mad all those whiners, have to pay to use something."
"can you provide a link to this email? that's what this thread is for...everyone knows this... people are upset about ccp possibly adding more micro-transactions and the possibility (speculation) that this will lead to more player advantage items etc.you make some fair points and it makes sense; however you stopped reading the rest of the post and that is why you fail.. this is not a thread about that. it's supposed to be a use for players to gain legitimate, unbiased information so they can make up their own minds without their decisions being hindered by others.if you have something useful to add then please post it and i will add it to the my posts at the top."
"i couldn't really decide if it was worth my time and effort responding to any of the hundreds of posts people are putting up on the forums. mainly i just like to play eve and am satisfied with everything i am able to do in the game.i just wanted to respond to where you talk about the votes and polls.if there is one thing that i learned in my government class, its that people groups and television stations can be highly biased.if you take the republican and democrat idea, the republicans won't be looking at things that have a high democratic bias and democrats won't want to be looking at stuff with high republican bias.i would have to say that with all this going on, you are looking at just one group of people responding to those votes and polls, while the other group of people, me being one of them, doesn't really even bother to \"vote\" or \"take a poll\" as its not worth the effort.i would be interested, though, to see what the groups of people on the other end of the spectrum really have to say, and what kind of support there would be.so i am supporting this topic on the grounds of a good healthy discussion."
"en24 says:make ccp take the lemons back"
"i appreciate the support, but your thread clearly limits the proposed upgrades, qt. \"-don't make \"turret\" missile-launchers, many ships don't actually have the hard-points to support (see drake).\" i don't wish to make the issue of upgrading missiles to be narrowed right out of the gate. i could imagine a future ee where serious hull changes have been made to ships, notably caldari, and missile launchers 'pop' out of the ships in similar fashion to turrets now. in truth, i'm not sure i would end up enjoying that more-so than the status quo. my immediate goal is to allow all ideas to be discussed without limitation and determine how many people actually care enough about updating missiles to want something to be done about it."
"well said,however in regards to the description of the cq's being like beta testing - i do hope they respond to players' needs and reduce the graphics or at least give the option to turn it off; at least until future expansions when not only has technology caught up, but when the majority of pcs in the world are actually at that level! and can actually run multiple clients (some people with older machines struggle with just one client running).ccp must realise that a lot of their subscriptions, their income, is generated from players who own and run multiple accounts. this has now been hindered and if they do not address this problem quickly, they're going to see a lot of accounts suddenly go inactive!**edit** i have since discovered that you can in fact turn the cq off, thus we can run multiple clients no problem, and i have also learned that ccp is going to re-introduce the ship spinning feature due to high demand."
"wtf is that asshat talking about? what does he actually know about the fuhrer and how does he dare compare himself with one? i'm utterly dispised and wish this crap was known before the meeting in moscow so that i could tell him in person how ****ing wrong he is."
"this one is more sane, but then again: who the hell told him that the revenue is the aim? the aim is to please people via providing them excellent services and the revenue is a mere consequence.ffs. i wish those guys have read henry ford."
"i ****ing loled.the question is not \"whether eve is dying or dying not?\" rather - how long will it still last while being run in such a poor and non-aryan way.you guys are disgusting."
"agreed with sideous!!!john turbefield the king in the north, he has my sword!!!"
"i kind of smile seeing the word in bold being filtered. stupidity is getting just overwhelming."
"i fully agree. the noble store has got to go! it is nothing more than a money grab. if we let it live right now it will ruing eve ultimately down the road. give a mouse a little food and it will always come back for more. ccp is getting greedy."
"support"
"complete and total agreement"
"1.0"
"i can't believe i'm agreeing with anything even vaguely related to jade. but right is right, and must be supported"
"not supported.most of what you are saying are just speculations at this point. i really don't think ccp will make anything but vanity items in the nex. if they did, then that would be the day i would do/say something about it. for now, its all just hot air and fud.i do agree that there should be a 'disembark' option. but i think certainly it may be added going forward, but as they announced that they were going to release incarna on a certain day, they really couldn't have squeezed in that feature in time, so... meh, i can't blame them for that. (yet)"
"+1enough is enough"
"supported"
"speculation... this is the path they are going down... why would you wait for it to happen?"
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images.men shall be charged for subscriptions, not for monocles!"
"support."
"hey, i haven't said anything either way on it. i'm asking the question. he's a good guy and i'd hate for him to be hurt, but i'm also being hurt here.all i want to do is be able to log in and get back to game as usual. if that's what it takes, then that's what it takes.edit: plus, if the thread goes with no, and it's clear that's there's not much interest in it either way, then he's in the clear. that'd also be good in my opinion.i want to be blunt. i'm not calling for his scalp. i want to find out if his scalp will settle things. it's clear it won't, so that's that. thread can be locked, yay."
"although i don't agree with the slight on the op, i do agree with the logical part of the statement. \"off with his head\" is not a valid tactic else all innovation stops. it might be politic to move the offender out of the public eye, but that would be the worst that should happen, unless hs behavior becomes a trend."
"the op and any of the posts that support it are a disgrace.naive and selfish players!(good work players who are flaming the op)if game designers are to be fired for making poor decisions then creativity and all possible innovations for the future are doomed.but it isn't even a bad decision in the first place.the game developers have not only a responsibility to look after their players, but they must also generate a sustainable income for their company - so that staff can get paid and put food on the table for their families. there is nothing wrong with vanity items and microtransactions being introduced into the game (so long as it doesn't lead to player/character enhancing items - ccp has said this won't happen).the amount of crap some people give ccp is disgusting. ccp has worked very hard for many years to give us the game we all love; and they've given us many many expansions for free! you have no right to start such a thread and you sir should be banned!pleas lock this thread."
"not supported.i agree with this post, but only insofar as i have quoted it.in general, i am extremely skeptical of microtransactions to non-vanity items, leaning towards opposition."
"agreed seamus. i have also voted no to the whole mt thing but this is imo out of line.op @ it honestly doesn't matter if you \"just ask the question\"."
"granted its a poo idea, but he shouldn't get the sack for it, we all have crappy ideas give him a break fellas"
"he should stay but you should definitively get an ip/cc ban for this disrespect.you don't like it? -don't buy it!"
"of course not. the guy did nothing wrong.people rioting in jita isn't even a significant event. i mean, this is classic selective bias. just because 3000 odd holigans protest in jita because they have nothing better to do, doesn't mean anything if you consider the 300,000 people who aren't protesting.i feel that capitalism is under attack here, which is sad."
"capitalism is for the noobs ,greed shouldnt be tolerated ever"
"\"in fact, i'd like to sell a lot more than vanity items.\"dont think he should be fired for this, but hope he feels he has had a kick up the arse from players regarding it. thank god we got a view of whats going on"
"1.0"
"if ccp wants another source of revenue, they have a lot of npc corporations that could be used to advertise out-of-game commodities.for a yearly fee from coca-cola, quafe corp. could become coca-cola, including all quafe products becoming coke products.research corporations could become intel, motorola, nvidia, etc.courier corporations could become fedex, ups, etc.does not affect gameplay, and gives ccp another income source.vote yes if you support in-game advertising of real-world items and corporations.vote no if you do not support in-game advertising of real-world items and corporations."
"yeah, i was crying when i saw monster the monster frigates and mini-freighters, incarna is a complete cluster**** now :("
"i could be wrong on this (will need to go and double check) but i just saw the size differences as being a matter of perspective, the frigates look bigger because they can sit closer to your balcony while the larger ships need more room and so need to be closer to the center of the hanger."
"i had pretty much the same idea for the \"ship spinner\" people. mine implements a chair or a bench for the captain to sit upon at the console on the dock. seated or standing there, one can, with the right-click of the ship and the selection of \"look at,\" resume the seemingly pleasing \"ship spinning\" viewpoint."
"as you walk away from the platform the ships get bigger but as you walk to your ship, the ship gets smaller. i think this is a bug."
"sick of the long wait to get your petition responded to? i'd be willing to spend extra real life money on having a priority response to my petitions. the fact that other individuals are willing to spend $70 usd on an in-game monocle leads me to believe that other people would be willing to pay for this too, as it is a much more useful service. the length of time it takes for a petition to be addressed is excessive and i'd like to be able to cut to the front of the line.i propose:- premium customer service (5usd/month) or (1 plex/3 months)- guaranteed response time of less than one hour.it has been said that eve customer service works 24/7, as such they should be able to provide a simple line cutting service and respond within an hour without issue. it would have minimal if any impact on the petition system, as the people receiving the premium customer service would be making petitions anyway. ccp makes more money, doesn't use up anymore resources and the players who choose to upgrade can have their petitions answered faster! regardless, everyone will have their petitions answered even if they do not purchase this optional upgrade."
"okay, i will admit that this idea isn't 100% mine as it was inspired by a post in general discussions. but the idea here is having specific sets of clothing tied too your faction standings with various npc corporations.the easiest and most obvious example for this would be the militia's, we already have our milita ranks tracked so how about adding a system where whenever we increase in rank we gain access to a new uniform complete with insignia's and tailored to the particular faction we are fighting for. starting out with something rather bland and utilitarian at the lowest ranks and moving on up to full dress uniforms.the same system could easily be applied to other npc corporations or just to the major factions, after all it does take quite a while to grind up your faction standings so why not give us something to show for it. or perhaps even opening up some of the bloodline specific tattoo's/implants/etc.yeah it would take some time but it would help to add some extra color to our wardrobes as well as making quite a bit of sense from an rp perspective. (an amarrian \"preaching\" to the matari starts going native and adopting their style, an oddly pious gallente begins wearing a hood)i also believe that this might be an effective middle ground on the whole change of bloodlines proposal since ccp seems reluctant to discuss that. i think i could probably handle not being able to change my bloodline a bit more if i could gain access to some of the other tattoo's even if it meant a bit of extra work on my part to grind up the standings for it."
"die.........slowly and in pain"
"microhowever this vote is flawed. you need a 4th option for vanity only.it is clear that you, yourself, disagree with mt and you have therefore cleverly designed the voting options for this thread so that people will be forced to choose yes or no which is exactly what you want them to do. this thread is biased and stupid and should be either fixed or deleted.there are many players who probably can't afford to pay for an increase in subscription fees and there are many players who don't want players to be given an unfair advantage by buying character enhancing items via microtransations - you are taking advantage of this.furthermore there are a lot of people who are mis-informed and who have been fooled by outrageous speculations and rumors - no facts.there is nothing wrong with vanity items. it will not affect you and your ability to play the game (the only problem with the latest expansion is the captain's quarters being to hardware hungry - this is another issue). if players want to spend money on fashion accessories then good for them - it's their choice; and if ccp can generate some extra income then good for them! they deserve it!ccp has worked long and hard for us (many selfish) players to provide the game we love and have given us many many free awesome expansions and improvements. it is their goal to create the ultimate online sci-fi experience for us and if we can help them achieve that goal, then we should!"
"yes, provided that it is reasonable."
"noeve subscriptions are already at the high end of mmos. it's obviously profitable, evidenced by eve providing enough revenue to be developing two new ambitious titles simultaneously."
"micromany games that use mt are able to drop subscription fees entirely."
"yes and +1 to rin ji"
"no.implementing mt already and obviously they don't care about their clients, and they are caught in the mainstream of we need more isk damned, we need to pay for tons of stuff but i so want to see their annual balance sheet and see how much goes to their \" investors \""
"nothey are using their revenue to develop cash farms like dust and world of darkness at the same time. not many companies can do that. one would think 1 title was enough and use the rest of the money to improve eve and get even more players...but noooo...greed is supreme."
"nothey already invest our/my money in crap i do not want and doesn't even effect eve in a way i want.i am speaking of the dust514 bull**** - we are paying 3? 4? years development of a game which will be pay-to-win. wtf plsthey should use their ****ing money they get through eve use !for eve!"
"^^ this no"
"everyone, please read"
"in a way true, but seriously if we can stop this kinda behavior a few euro increase in sub fee is acceptable. so i say yes x 3"
"nothe fee is high enough as it is."
"micro x3one for each account.if you want to spend $20 for your avatar to have a skirt, then go for it. if there is going to be more than just cosmetic mts, then i would be willing to pay more to keep the mts out of the game."
"noi don't want to spread the extra money they want to get from vanity items across all of us in the way of subscription fees instead.micro is fine as long as it's only for vanity and cosmetic stuff. the day that we get any kind of pay-to-win system is the day i quit. heck, i don't really care if i can buy a megathron from mt as long as it's plex -> aurum -> megathron, and as long as that megathron is no better (statistics wise, not looks) than any other megathron i can make using bps. seems like a bit of added redundancy since you can go plex -> isk -> megathron but meh.i have no problem with ccp trying to make extra money, but not with increased subscription fees or mt that involves paying for better stuff than the rest of us get."
"wow, just wow. you're like the beaten housewife making concessions and telling yourself he still loves you. for the love of god grow a pair will you!?eve is already one of , if not the most, expensive subscription based mmo's out there.itt golden geese."
"no.sorry, but the world lets wow get away with charging for expansions, while they recoup their enitre production costs for the release within a day or two after it lands. then people continue paying subs till the next robbing takes place.every eve player pays almost the full amount that other developers charge for a one-off, fully priced aaa title... and they do that every 2 months. that pays for expansion development. that pays for the design and implementation of new features (clothing, etc.), and that pays for server maintenance and admin.for additional money to be justified for development, or justified in allowing feature-use privileges, ccp would have to explain what exactly we pay our subs for. and also... why their new content production pipelines are so inefficient to require this scale of recompense.sorry, but what is going on here is exactly the same : a total -disconnect- between the proportional value of commercial media (in this case, 'features' within a game) and it's commensurate value in real world money."
"hell no to increased sub fees. yes to microtransactions as long as they don't affect gameplay balance.eve sub is expensive as it is (60 days world of warcraft = $30, 60 days eve = $35) plus due to stupid restriction of one training character per account most people actually pay two or more accounts. i believe this situation is quite unique in mmo world, where so many mmo's struggle financially, often resorting to free to play model before going out of business completely. in contrast to that loyal eve player base goes out of their way and gladly pay for several accounts, but that loyalty has its bounds..."
"yes but i believe that some information about why they need more money and how they plan to use them would be useful."
"whats the problem with micro payment?:o"
"yes but to further fund eve not games not related to it."
"micro.i really don't see what the problem is with mt."
"noare you ppl insane you are all shifting the greed of ccp to the subscription system.how about not being so f*****g greedy and keep it as it is enough ppl buy plex to sell it for isk as it is and every time they can they brag about more ppl subscribing to eve so i say they're making enough money already."
"exactly what is your problem with mt for cosmetic only goods? is it just that ccp shouldn't make more money? is it purely just the fact that ccp wants to generate more revenue that is the root of your displeasure?"
"while i had no intention of cleverly manipulating results, you are correct that the vote needs to include a 4th option for the statistics to accurately represent player opinion. i value these numbers, as quantitative analysis is really all ccp's decision will come down to in the end. players who have voted previously can edit their posts to reflect the newly added 4th option. thank you for keeping any perceived bias out of the poll, and thank you everyone else for your input.edit: remember folks, lets try to keep questions and comments to a minimum, posts in this thread should begin with a vote. discussion on this topic can be posted in this thread."
"lets keep this short and simple...new/better or old cyno graphics disappear and reappear graphic is awful and tacky! with all of the new graphics introduced into incarna and you still havent created a new cyno graphic? very sad and pathetic!"
"just letting ccp know that i was looking forward to the wod mmo (i'm a huge fan of the pen & paper books, and the roleplaying setting itself), but i've decided that (along with eve too), a standard monthly subscription fee should be enough, and should not exclude me from any content (even so called \"vanity\" items, because it's a 'world of darkness' game, you will want the choice of clothing). since, as we all know, it's been circulated that you be approaching wod in the same way you are now steering eve. if true, this will mean i won't be playing the wod mmo then, no chance.which is really sad... cause i've been waiting for a wod mmo since i played masquerade:redemption wayyy back when.the problem is, i'm a control freak type of person. if you have a noose around my neck, you have to make sure i don't notice, or i rip the noose off (or my head, to get it off. sometimes it backfires.). a monthly subscription fee is like a light noose, a softy fluffy collar on a elasticated spring lead. it's always 'there', but you are able to forget about it, and enjoy yourself with an ignorance-enabled feeling of personal freedom.microtransactions are a constant slap in the face, a prod, and a stern point toward the correct way to go... everytime i veer off the path into desire, after seeing something that looks cool that i want (which in an mmo, you'd hope would be often...? well, no when it's microtransaction based... lol.). me 'veering off the path' would be me seeing it, and then going online and looking up what quest has to be completed, or creature has to be bested, or components found, to acquire this cool item. even that is 'part' of the fun of the game. but no, the slap in the face is you guys, ccp, directing me retail isle, telling me to have my wallet ready once i'm done 'looking around'.i think, a lot of it is a personality thing. i'm quite assertive, and i dislike repeatedly being bugged for **** (in this case, ridiculous amounts of money. but i'd feel the same if it were small amounts, if i'm honest, or anything. like a stupid menu confirmation box, whatever. i don't discriminate, ha ha). those are two 'personality-traits' o' mine.nothing personal ccp, but if you do -this- to wod, and if you continue to do -it- to eve, our business will be terminated.ps: i don't expect any response in particular. more just... saying where i stand, and what will probably happen, unfortunately.-edited cause i realized the title was a little misleading. sounded like i was breaking major news before. no... lol."
"hi,it's really simple. what ccp have done lately, pretty much, is **** in your faces. i mean just look at the things they've done, look at incarna. if you can sit there with a straight face and pretend that this csm matters, or makes a difference, then just look at what happened during the last few days and face reality.what i suggest you do is resign and shut down the csm, collectively. do this to send a message to both ccp and the community as a whole. do it to maintain integrity and responsibility. you make not like this, but it is the only sensible option right now. you can either stand there and be ****ed on by ccp in front of the community r.kelly style, or you can man up and do what's necessary. represent the community the way you're supposed to.peace, out."
"must agreeits obviously a fruitless and pointless excercise - the major cahnges are not even discussed with you.in light of the recent material that shows the company disdane for the custoerms, you really have no choice (read purpose if it helps)"
"i don't believe that's ever accomplished anything.besides, i think it's a bit premature to shut. down. everything.the leaked stuff is worrisome, but right now there's nothing for sale for aur but overpriced clothes. let's wait until something bad actually happens to go all chicken little."
"seems to me like you are focused on one minor detail here.what about bad like a complete lack of customer service towards paying customers ?"
"the captains quarters makes it difficult for people to run eve on their computer, or to run multiple clients at one time - did you check to see if there was an option to turn it off?can't spin your ship in station anymore? ccp has said that they will be implementing a way to do this again.the new micro-transactions allow people to buy little fashion accessories for their avatar.. \"omg, i'm so jealous of people who have monocles right now!\" ...no one is forcing you to buy themthe leaked newsletter: things we've heard in regards to this are of concern, but does anyone actually have a link to this? can we prove that such a newsletter or email even exists? **edit** ok i found it. it does exist. some people tell me it's fake but i looks pretty convincing... either way.. before or after reading it you should also read the recent dev blog ccp zulu blog - 2011.06.24+9 implants? noble ammunition? ....speculation, rumor ...again there is no proof.so until there is proof. or until ccp does these horrible, horrible things... please stop crying and making all of these stupid threads...all this crying/complaining/*****ing/raging and threatening to close your accounts? seriously? wtf? grow up.**edit** i'm going to lol if someone actually has the audacity to be so stupid and reply saying that there isn't an option to turn captain's quarters off."
"it's not really about nex.the last days have clearly shown some of the intentions and mindsets that are present within ccp, in leading positions. it is this mindset that has spawned the protest. nex is but a poster child for the anger felt by the community in light of ccp openly giving a **** about the concerns and critique.incarna is a half-arsed excuse for what should've been the blockbuster expansion for eve online. it is unfinished, unpolished, lacking content and to top it all off delivers the icing on the fail-cake in form of nex/aurum.now, with the ceo of this company being very clear on what his attitude is towards the playerbase in general, do you think there's any grounds for a csm to stand and act on? i don't."
"since you're such a big fan of dev blogs, try reading zulu's previous one found here:"
"i am guessing you don't have children or ever had to care for one of the little monsters for any appreciable amount of time?when a child throws a tantrum over x thing, the only thing you can do is explain why x is in as simple terms as you can. if that doesn't work, you have two options .. slap it around (bad!) or let it cool down and find its composure in due time.(third option is to give in and do whatever it takes to appease the little ****, but rest assured the little buggers remember the cave-ins vividly and will start throwing tantrums over the most ridiculous things imaginable!).zulu explained the situation in very simple terms but the emo-raging continued .. would you like them to smack you around a bit with some carpet-banning perhaps?"
"i'm a paying customer, and i've never noted problems with \"customer service\".what exactly do you mean?"
"every one of these thread just sound like whines from children. has ccp really done anything that bad? i don't think so.is cq really that useful now? not really, but it's been long stated that it is the first pass release of station interaction. is your pc too underpowered to run the game now? well guess better to upgrade now before more station features are added. don't like that you have to upgrade? well i have a commodore 64 that i wish could run wing commander 3, but such is life. is the nex items too expensive for you? too bad then, earn more isk so that you can afford them. we can't have too many monacles around the galaxy, else it would lose its elite appeal. perhaps you should wait for the quafe tee shirts to go on sale."
"yep bunch of whiners ,the only problem is that i cant spin my ship now :=( hope they will fix this,and missiles still no launcher grapics"
"i think the only thing that will change ccp right now is bad press. the csm if anything has been in the press in the past due to eve being the only mmo with a player-ran council providing feedback.a entire resignation would generate further press and emphasis on the overall disagreement of this 'vocal minority'"
"wouldn't mind a ship spinning alternative to the 'door' but eh, nothing to go bomb jita about. i can wait for it. maybe a mini ship spin in the holo display in the cq.missiles? what missile launcher effects? there never were any, so its not a problem. just slated for the next graphics update no doubt."
"that's a cool idea, simulates supply and demand real well too."
"i agree with the op. 'simplifying' agents doesn't change the mission grind, but removes some interesting levels of complexity.i'd like to see the quality back. not sure about the mission type thing."
"do do something about the lag they are creating.. this is not game play.. it's a denial of service attack"
"no, its people expressing a viewpointgo play wow if you don't like other people actually playing the same game"
"they are just angry b,ecause stores run out of monocles before they could buy it :(mine is for sale starting bid 5bil. convo me"
"wtf monocles sold out?!?! damnit i grinded the **** out of me since incarna releasetrue story rly :<"
"just imagine, for the low low price of 25,000 aurum you could get a small smartbomb that really is smart. it will not only hit locked targets but anything in range that is attacking you. this way suicide gankers could still use them, though on a somewhat more limited scale, while also being much more useful to carebears.upsized smartbombs should cost 25k aurum per size rank up to extra large smartbombs for capital ships at 100k aurum. the reasoning behind this potentially steep price is how advanced the computer equipment and artificial intelligence necessary to create smartbombs that are capable of being smart actually are. plus it also includes under the table bribes to security officials to ignore any and all ai technology that might bleed over to less than legal territory. after all, it's just a bomb, it won't try to take over the whole ship..."
"i'm for it, a good way to fix the speed issue is to give them all -98.xx% power and cpu need on micro warp drives, then you could fit a capital mwd to it.this would be great on a prowler, cloak,fast,shield extender,shield rechargeer, shield recharge rig, power rig, maybe an ecm burst or a targeting disrupter. maybe a mining laser in the second high slot, or missiles would be nice, smart bomb, or just a probe launcher (i'm not sure if you can fit the missles or smart bomb to it though, eft says you can)"
"if you can call what they are doing to eve developing, and not merely beta-testing under-developed graphics on an unwilling playerbase.if you do this, you can stop trying to double dip.cut wod or dust 514 and you won't have to fuck your loyal playerbase."
"on the assumption that ur wrong, i support disembark is another good idea though"
"thanks for idea, this is better than what i had in mind (cq/hangar as a visual setting)"
"somehow immersive, good one!"
"wow! this is actually a really good idea!but it only works if the loading of all the qc assets etc doesn't actually happen until you choose to do so.+1"
"that is exactly what i am talking about. the environment for the cq shouldn't be loaded until choosing to, specifically to avoid the performance hit. take me quite literally when i say upon entering the station, one would not be able to discern a difference visually, audibly, the responsiveness nor the latency should be touched.it should be a separation of the two environments in question completely, blended in a way that completely and effectively disguises the fact that there are two unique environments, the old and new. people need to feel like nothing changed, but a brand new player or incarna fan should neither be separated from the complete experience nor feel like the old environment is somehow encroaching on its perceived space.a new player should not ever on their own conclude that this system was developed as a bridge between the two. a new player should just dock, say \"coooool!\" hit the button and say \"oh wow sick\" and see it all as one game/interface/environment.functionally, fans of the old stations should be able to play the game just as they had been, with no increase in loading times, suffer no performance hit (while playing the old way) and functionally have no change to speak of.i think it can be done, and i think this is a quite workable and relatively speaking simple thing to develop. if done with the items above as the requirement for success, i could totally see this being live a month from now. if that, depending on resource allocation."
"+1 make this pretty please, the static door are a bit dull to watch on..."
"if that can make all the winners close their beak, i'm all for it.unfortunately the major stuff is not cq's, but how much the plex price will increase once people start using plex for this instead of isk. all those false statements and false disappointment is only about how much it will cost them ig currency to keep playing the game for free, nothing else or you're blind.edit: support"
"full support... this is definitely one of the more elegant, simple solutions i've seen for this cq fiasco.this isn't second life, this is eve, keep it that way."
"lol.. genius!"
"sounds good to me!"
"please explain to me the reasoning behind making dust 514 a ps3 exlusive and announcing it right after a sony hack? that pretty much explains itself. making a mmo/fps hybrid on one of the worst gaming networks available? it's going to end up blowing up in your face. not saying don't do it. just not now and not on psn. i would love for dust 514 to be made just not the way its being planned.oh and soor i placed this under jita wasn't paying attention. i don't usually post and wont again so don't worry about it."
"unless you've missed it. i'm deaf! i can't hear the official recording!!"
"in case you've missed it, i'm deaf! i can't hear the official recording!!edit: wtf is going on with that? i pressed edit, not quote!"
"the lack of information and communication with the csm is criminal. unless you know the secret handshake, lurk in certain blogs, or run with the in-crowd it's deathly silence. once in awhile i find a link to a website one of them posted on for their readers update, yet the community hears nothing. each of csm's should visit jita park 2 or 3 times a week to keep us updated on your discussions or at least say hi. you act like your a bunch of elitist sh*theads."
"yes, i missed it  you only mentioned that you can't listen to the fireside chats, not that you can't listen to recordings in general."
"sorry, i mentioned it in the fireside chat thread and presumed you'd read it."
"an the utility of a recording for people that isn't so fluent in spoke english is? there is a reason why people ask for written reports. the csm can like oral discussions but the usefulness of them for a multilingual audience is small."
"although cash for in-game bonuses is obviously a desperate money-grab by ccp, as long as these items are subsequently resell-able for isk on the in-game market/contract system it probably doesn't matter in the long run. even if 'noble' items end up having more than vanity effects, as long as players can buy them for isk nothing really changes. non-transferable items bought with cash that affect game play would radically alter the game."
"the main thing about the aurum scam is that ccp is introducing some rl money sink where i personally would like to see some new game play or improved old game play.also it is harshly inconsistent with game lore. why the hell do you need to turn in plex to buy a jeans that costs as much as a t2/faction cruiser/bc hull? or can you offer me some roleplayish explanation why?the nex also means that there is a class of items that is exclusively accessible via rl money, where in a sandbox you would like to have all items created by in-game player interaction. e.g. i can't prevent people to buy a jeans, nor can i steal them, nor can i farm or manufacture them. so the nex is a dead thing like seeded market items, which by the way have been laborously removed vi pi. 'dead' because they don't involve player interaction.finally i see aurum as a redundant mechanism to the plex for isk mechanism, and one that binds developer resources for designing basically 'dead' uis and items without gameplay value.once you introduce items with gameplay value into the aurum shop, i fear eve might become a pay to win game, where alliances will collect real life money from their members to buy a batch of aurum titans for the next campaign.blend this together with some leaked documents, bad comms from ccp employees and a long history of releasing halfbaked features and you get some angry e-mob with virtual pitchforks and virtual torches."
"greed is good?boycott ccp<U+25D8> do not buy plex with real cash;<U+25D8> do not buy vanity items from nex;<U+25D8> do not convert plex to aur;<U+25D8> cancel your subscription if you actually pay cash for it;<U+25D8> join the protest in jita;ccp is scamming the eve online community and it needs to stop!capsuleers unite!"
"this all is a pointless waste of ammunition. ccp will do what it wants and there is nothing you can do to change that. had we tried to resolve this matter like people with common sense, ccp might have listened and change some things but now that is going to be next to impossible thanks to a few idiots. ccp is also a business trying to make money just like any other business would. oh and why the hell would you attack concord? not the best way to get something done."
"q: how many protesters does it take to change a lightbulb in jita?a: i've no idea because ccp keep banning people before i get the answer"
"i got banned from the help channel for posting that.it's crazy how today they have 1 gm, 1 senior isd and multiple isd's in the help channel who are handing out bans to anyone that dares to mention anything negative. one guy posted that my name would be handed to the ccp gistapo for telling that joke....he too was banned.in chaos theory there's a concept known as sensitive dependence on initial conditions. most people call it the butterfly effect. in eve we call it the sandbox.in eve they should call it the caveata warning or proviso of specific stipulations, conditions, or limitationsthis game may be a sandbox for ccp, but it isnt a sandbox for the player base. we do what they allow, if we disagree we get silence. is the ccp business model based on the novel 1984?"
"it was a long time, since i started to pay attention to eve and evolution of this game. the start was great, the game was hardcore and challenging, new players, and me as one of them had a value to the old players and eve community. the first thing i remember about the game was the fact, that most of the old players wanted me to join them, suggested me a role in this virtual world, was willing to help you at the start and find you useful at the same time. that was not a charity - that was a cooperation of new and old players, something i never saw in other mmo. there were some minor balance issues in my opinion, but the possible ways to evolve your character was also awesome. almost every ship and item was useful for something, opening you vast possibilities once you trained the skill required for it. it is almost perfect  that what was i thought, and hoped it will be polished soonas a player back in those first years of a game i trusted ccp that this game will be running forever. the project itself was a success, so i was sure that i will not lose my time and money training my skills and buying stuff in game, if someone will just decide to close the project and shut down the game. eula and ban policy was something scary for me, i saw a lot of players was banned almost for nothing, it was really hardcore tos, with no obligations from the ccp side, but i could live with that at that time, hoping if i will not break any rules, it will be fine after all. i trusted ccp. the first call for me, that my trust is too optimistic was a snowballs nerf. it was a rude in my opinion, someone just made you a present than just takes it back. i dont know if its fine in iceland to do so, but in place where i live that gives you no respect at all. the message was clear for me  ccp doesnt care about your ingame items and will wipe them just for fun at any time, so why collect them? my gamestyle had changed accordingly this new message. there were no collecting stamps for me in eve anymore, no trust in safety of ingame property. still some trust about safety of char skills and isk. later, game had changed more, there were lots of thing i like and dont like added to the game, but it was somehow ok with me. i was sure that ccp do know what are they doing after all. the only thing that i was worry about now was game changes affecting my skills, lowering my possibilities in this game. with every not reasonable nerf and boost that devolves my skills i was losing a bit of trust in my skills safety, especially when i had no explanation of what these changes are good for. it was a time when metagaming made more and more sence for me, and trust to invest my skills for training 1 profession i prefer was fading. with a t3 introduction ccp showed us, that skills are not so important anymore, you can just buy isk and fly a better ship. but i still hoped ccp does know what they are doing. the bottom line for me was dominion. for me  it was ruining the whole sense of what this game is made of. it was devolving most of the ships and items in game, making them useless. the main unique feature of this game  new players that needed for community was ruined completely. i was not so sure ccp knows what they are doing anymore. i was trying to help ccp at that point, applying to csm, saw unfinished pi in failure, but still hoped ccp will fix the situation asap and make this game fun again. instead, we were told that we have to wait 18 month before we possibly can play that good game again. nothing will be done. the trust was lost completely."
"now time passes by, and we get more and more unfinished stuff, but more than that ccp want us to pay microtransactions on top of subscription. all that free expansions they were announcing as a feature of this game was a lie as a ghost training they were announcing as a feature before they fixed it, remember that. now answer me a question  can i trust this company that those goods that i will buy as my virtual property through those microtransactions are safe? will not ccp just change their mind and nerf them as a snowballs after all? what i should pay for? where is any guaranties and can i trust them after all? should i spend my time and money for nothing, when this all can be devolved just for lulz by the company you dont trust? sure it is not, and everyone with a sense can understand that. but we still have a kind of hope that ccp have a basic understanding what they are doing, so what we can expect? the only option in situation like this for a company  is to force microtransactions, so vanity items only is just a beginning. and whatever you say, there is no trust, there is only logic based on history of your actions and breaking your promises, acting like a little girl, that have no responsibilities.so, this is what i feel about this situation, what can be done to solve this puzzle is another story that is starting right now. but in any case, any human relationships are based on a trust, and if you want it to continue, you have to make some promises that you will not brake after all."
"how can we trust people from a country that club baby seals for fun?caveat:except my icelandic mates of course"
"many things have now been made clearer. such as why unlimited local ship fittings were suddenly, for no good reason and with no good explanation, moved to server and limited to 50. all done and planned months ago, so they can later charge for extra save slots. they're limiting existing stuff and features, so they can later charge us extra for it."
"its complete bull**** and i'm sad to see the game go down the toilet. to me and my brother this game was like the ****ing promised land. where you could cheat anybody out of everything. where death was frightening because you could lose everything with a few volleys. where if you were persistent enough you could end everything with the click of a button.hell the guys in iceland seamed pretty damn cool.but the events that took place after incarna, a patch that i waited for thinking that it was going to revolutionize gameplay. i was so ****ing wrong. what we were shown years before was amazing. what we got was a pile of ****.i'm holding on just for my old friends that still play and the hope that someone will change something or even acknowledge the game communities disappointment but as we all now know that ship has sailed.i won't say good-bye eve yet, this ones going down with the ship."
"swg all over again!"
"a troll walks into a bar and asks the barman for a pint of quafe.the barman replies \"i'm sorry troll but those items are only available to people through our micro transaction market where ccp charge additional funds for playing the game.he then kicked the troll out and banned him from ever coming back in again.the end"
"pretty simple question."
"hillmar stated that all that mattered to him was actions, not words.remaining on the csm is agreeing with him."
"it would be pretty rad if the csm issued a statement that not only were they all resigning, they were unsubscribing and encouraging other players to do the same(and no, you cannot \"haz my stuffs\" i'm taking my rorqual down with me sucka)"
"pretty simple answer: no.resigning is in nearly all cases a pretty weak, ineffective way of protesting, performed by people who deem themselves so important that they think their ragequitting will change anything."
"i think they should, because yes actions would speak more than words, and from the leaks..csm can't do much about it."
"yes they should all step downbut that will not happen as at least \"mittani\" will stay to get personal benefits for his brownnosing"
"i think it would be pretty pointless, regardless if you like it or not, the csm are few and much more organized than the rest of the comunity. even when the dialogue with ccp at this point seems broken they can still work as a focal point for the rest of us as a comunity.i think in moments like theese is when csms should be more active than ever, not just in the closed csm board but here on the trenches. since the first thing that will die on this game if they take on the direction they want, will be the comunity organization."
"csm quitting would be a bad idea, at least being around they can put pressure on ccp. quitting will just let them go and do anything they want."
"they need to stay and they need to work with ccp so that the nex is fixed and so that i can play eve. this new patch overheats my laptop."
"quit? we're balls deep in fighting this **** right now."
"if ccp consulted the csm about microcontractions then fair enough, as long as they listened to the csm. but rumour is they didnt ask the csm and went ahead anyway so the csm may as well quit since ccp have proved they don't respect the players.i dont want microtransactions.... hell i didnt want walking in stations either... but ccp do what the hell they want it appears"
"rad' if you want eve online to failure cascade and become the next swg, perhaps"
"we've been posting, reading, talking continuously for the past 2 days to try and get everything sorted.i'll be quitting when there's no room for dialog anymore. as bleak as things may be, ccp and the csm *are* talking to one another.and yes, the progress hasn't been what it should have been *yet*.i'll keep you posted. ("
"i don't support mt for anything other than cosmetic. the pricing on current items are bad but i don't care if you want to spend a billion dollars usd (around 45$ canadian) to make your avatar look different. i don't care. i'll laugh at you, we all will, but that's your deal and this falls firmly into the \"whatevs\" camp.we do not support mt for things that matter. no gold ammo for scorpions, no buying ships that are anything other than reskins (must have original ship to trade in, we don't want producers hosed), we don't support any of that because it influences the competitive nature of the game. we were never told about any plans for this type of mt and we were assured that this wasn't going to be the direction things go. pay for premium play works well on games where you don't have to pay a subscription fee already (world of tanks comes to mind) but it just adds another mechanism where you feel you have to pay more in order to compete on a game you already pay for. i don't approve of this. we're going to fight to make sure this is never the future of this game. i don't think anybody really cares about pay for pretty, everybody understands that it's meaningless, but people do have valid concerns that this merely opens the door and prepares the userbase to be comfortable with mt in general so potentially this dynamic might change. the lack of clear assurances in light of all of these leaks is making me concerned (politicalspeak for really ****ing ****ed off).so for now stand by. we're not letting this one go."
"the csm quitting would probably be counterproductive. even if ccp is trying to shut them out, they theoretically have more access to somone important than we do, and they are out representation with the devs. if they quit, who is left to represent us? what we need is for them to be figting tooth and nail to get ccp to hear our views, and what we as players need to do is be backing them up."
"first of all thanks to csm for fighting the good fight, good luck.i only posed the \"should they quit\" question after listening to the eve radio interviews, where it became pretty clear that at this time ccp does not want your advice or share it's mt vision. they \"potentially\" have a much broader strategy of what they want to accomplish in their new store. if you are in talks with ccp is it possible to at least have an open letter from the csm to the community that is what you are doing and outline your goals?i agree wholeheartedly with vile rat regarding mt/vanity items and pricing. i care not one bit at the price of the monocles. however, vanity can mean a lot of things. mt for engine trails? how about cyno effects? how about the other three faction cqs when completed being only available via mt. i think those are vanity, don't you? does csm's \"vanity only\" mean all vanity?myself, i really have only two issues.1. will mt ever be used outside vanity? will people ever buy weapons, boosters or other advantages in the noble exchange? will actual playable content ever be locked in the noble exchange, such as a pilots license to enter some other part of space or mt a license to own a shop in a station? 2. station hanger, reading through the devblogs i think i have my answer, which is gone forever. i just want to know for sure that this is it, there is absolutely no way we will ever get the hanger view back in it's original form with an exit to station option.i don't want anyone to quit, especially csm. i would not mind understanding a bit more where the csm\"s line is drawn with ccp. again, good luck in your deliberations."
"my personal stance is very clear:1) i don't want gold ammo, ships for $, +10% damage implants or any other form of \"pay2win\". i'm fine with t-shirts, ship paint jobs, corp logos on ships & outposts, that kind of non competitive thing. i was ccp to stick with that stance.2) i want nex price to be altered, ideally between the $2 and $5 price range for the vast majority of the items so that everyone can participate, as opposed to the to 10% richest plebs. i don't mind $150 monocles as long as everyone can participate to a significant degree.3) i want commitment that the option not to load cq stay in place until such time as the performance for docking & loading station environment becomes acceptable (read: 20 seconds on my machine, subjective criteria, i know :p)4) i want clarifications on the $99 program so that fansites are not milked if they manage to recoup even the slightest bit of their cost through ads.those are the things i want right now.i'm *not* going to help ccp sugarcoat things to make swallowing the pill easier. a few csm members have spent the last 48 hours reading, posting, talking to ccp and basically doing nothing but serving as a bridge between everyone and ccp."
"so if this is eve's new game enhancements moment then aren't we all supposed to be jedi?"
"quality spaceship game > ponnies dressing up in stations game"
"no."
"cosmetic onlyand whats with the rediculus prices in the vanety shop?"
"cosmetic only. ship paint ftw"
"no."
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"voting no!!"
"cosmetic only"
"nonot now, not evercurrently unsure about staying in eveive also seen a few suggestions of free to play with micro transactions, however that doesn't feel right for eve"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no!"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic onlyadditionally: i believe anything that can be bought in the microtransaction store should be able to be player-crafted as well."
"no"
"no! hell no!i do not want to see \"hello kitty\" ships flying through my space. much less ones that have been paid for with daddy's card.eve attracts a certain type of player. this type of player (seemingly evidenced by the current tally of this topic) is not the player that likes mictrotransactions.keep your moneygrubbing out of my sandbox!"
"no"
"no"
"no no no nokeep eve pure. none of this \"plex for panties\" rubbish. open another server for all the 10yo tards to go play in if they want this stuff."
"no"
"cosmetic only."
"no."
"no"
"yes, as long aurum is exchageable with plex."
"no."
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"no."
"no,put the new clothes into the lp shop for example, we dont need a 3rd ingame currency im my honest opinion, put faction oriented clothes for the related lp-stores and everything should be fine..."
"no to mt."
"cosmetic"
"no.i have at least 150 people who will leave eve with me if this happens - we'll go to star wars old republic or something if need be."
"nowhile i'm strongly against stuff that would let you get an advantage in game (gold ammo, etc.), i also think that it would be better for the game if cosmetic stuff would all be player creatable, opening up new microprofessions (the sandbox idea that ccp uses in their vids).ps: i hope when station environments come out, all the puiblic station slots would not require tons and tons of aur"
"no mt of any kind. there is a subscription fee in this game."
"cosmetic only"
"no!since the nex is already implemented, it's most likely here to stay. however i do strongly wish for it to be removed, due to the fact, that from here on out, it would only be one step futher untill non-vanity items are available."
"no. simple as that."
"no!"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"noyou're like the neighbor's cat... ****ting in our sandbox."
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no to mt.we said no, we meant no. no means no. you rapists. :p"
"[cosmetic only]i don't see the problem with that. nothing game changing, nothing really negative at all out of cosmetics. i don't see why people would quit over it, yet... i guarentee some people will pay for them, so that's atleast some extra revenue. i don't blame them looking at making more money, because the fact of the matter is, money makes the world go round. also, ccp has done more free upgrades to this game then any other. they call them expandsions, sure... but if one were to be sold, they wouldn't be worth much as a sole retail expansion, so sure, keep the cosmetics, ccp deserves the right to make some extra money, but when you literally pay to win, (such as pay for faction standings, while the poorer person, in no way, shape or form, can afford...)to get something instantly, while another has to grind and work for their success is straight up bull****... i don't think any mt game actually lets you buy straight up reputation/faction, perhaps a boost to the amount you gain, which i still think, in a sandbox game like this, is too much. one thing i have always loved about this game, is you make a name for yourself (typically) by being an icon of work and skill, or luck. not your real life cash you spend. and with there being only 1 server, your name means more... and i think p2w will kinda ruin that in a way. idk, \"eve is hard\" keep it that way, that's why we're here!"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"cosmeticother games did okay with microtransactions and even a free to play model, e.g."
"no. like, srsly."
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"no!!!but i'm willing to live with it,if its cosmetic only!!"
"nothis is the first step to f2p, don't want to let u make one"
"no"
"no, it will ruin this game."
"cosmetic only."
"cosmetic onlybut i would go one set further and say station only to allow ccp to further expand the game. as pod pilots we can buy from the nobel store with plex which could be expanded to buying better quarters and furniture but could also be expanded to a different eve game where you play eve without the ships, just play as a non-pod pilot in the stations using aug and a micro transaction system."
"no!"
"ccp, cosmetic only and with a decent prize please.wtf with the item who cost 4 months of eve ?i've wanted some of them and would have bought it but damn ccp, theyr is a ****ing limit."
"cosmetic"
"no.i do want to say cosmetic only, but dont think it will stay to that so its no for me...!"
"no"
"cosmetic onlyi'm fine with cosmetic only, i'm just not gonna waste money one em. i am somewhat worried about plex prices though"
"no!"
"no"
"no"
"no!!!take out mt!i've seen this buy in game items for real money crap in othergames and it just completly ruins the game. were here to play a game not see who has a bigger pay check."
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no!also, can we please get some numbers?"
"no"
"no!micro transactions threaten the intergity of the game. a game with no intergity isn't worth playing.it was one thing to sell plex so someone that coudln't afford their subscription could do so. also plex also made money making in game desirable to buy plex to continue ones own subscription. mt is ccp double dipping making the first 2 even harder. plex are going to go up making it unatainable for the little guy. take mt out!"
"no"
"no!mt is ccp's blatant disrespect for not only the established player base but the great game they created. end mt!"
"no"
"no!"
"no!instead of trying to sqeeze us for more money... howabout fixing some of the in game features. what about the monthly subscription fee you get out of each of us every month ccp!? howabout you make those vanity items in game availble with just isk to address some of the undeniable inflation in game."
"no!"
"no!!!111"
"no!keep it real ccp!"
"cosmetic only.and loose a zero on the prices."
"cosmetic onlyi don't care if people that have the disposable income want to look more pretty. the largest concern is that ccp will implement non-cosmetic items for cash that will utterly destroy this game. don't do it, ccp."
"no!take out mt!"
"no need i say more"
"no"
"cosmetic only."
"no mt often end up killing things(not always but damn often). also don't we have a csm so this kind of thing didn't happen"
"no"
"cosmetic only."
"cosmetic only"
"no!"
"no."
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no!"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic onlyif people want to pay money to look different so be it, paying to win forget that crap."
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"erm... hell no."
"no ... though i don't have a problem w/ vanity items only, this becomes a slippery slope as we have seen already."
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no stop it"
"no i dont support this product"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no ... hellllllllllllll no no no no no no no no no!!!!!!!!!!! hope our actions are speaking volumes!!!"
"no!"
"no"
"no"
"no."
"cosmetic only!paint for ships is cool stripper bars and girls to spin see u can't spin your ship any more lol but no game change parts like skill point mod weapons ect"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only !!if anyone have the need to pay rl money to look cool in a spaceshipgame while he<U+FFFD>s walking in a station with 0 kills under his belt, let him. other things ? hell no !!"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no, it defeats the purpose of putting any time and effort into the game."
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only ..... or no"
"no. not mt at all."
"originally i thought no, however after much thought and contemplation of the impact that the new system will have on eve i thought in fact.... no.i then decided that ccp couldnt be wrong so it must be me, so i began my journey. i walked many miles with little food and drink until i reached a mountain, which after climbing i began on the peak of said mountain to fast and meditate. days passed with visions flashing before my eyes and the mysterys of creation and the world began to slowly unravel to me, allowing me to see the truths about life that i had never seen or understood before. thats when i realised..........no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!"
"no."
"cosmetics only"
"cosmetic onlyfocus on spaceships"
"no"
"no"
"no."
"no"
"cosmetic only if really necessary for ccp business...and no to the current price level."
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only or no"
"cosmetic only!"
"noand as i don't believe p will listen to us, i already canceled my 2 accounts."
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"no!"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"no.not with base subscribtion.this is not a free game."
"no"
"no"
"noits not needed."
"no."
"no"
"does it count as [cosmetic only] when i think, that char transfers and this kind of stuff could be payed with aur which can be bought with isk/plex? (or even stuff from the eve online rl store)"
"as i am sure it has been mentioned not just no but hell no"
"<cosmetic only>"
"no"
"cosmetic onlyif people are rich enough to afford a monocle it's not my problem. just hope plexs prices don't get stupidly high."
"no"
"no."
"**** ccp"
"no!!!!!"
"nay, no, neagative, noway!jovienus disapproves of this and all similar products."
"cosmetic only!!!!"
"nope"
"no."
"no"
"no."
"no"
"yesyou can already boost your game play artificially with real money through plex, what does the \"new\" micro-transaction system change? nothing, excepted that plex price (in isk) wil grow up, and even if that's not good for me (personally), it will make plex buying worthful for those who create them, and therefore chinese farmers less attractive, is that bad?other effects on the economy are too hard to predict, as eve's economy is such a complex thing.i'm for the \"wait and see\"."
"no"
"no"
"no!!!"
"no."
"no."
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"hell no!"
"no"
"cosmetic onlyand nothing more, nothing less"
"no!"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only!"
"no"
"***no***"
"no"
"cosmetic only!"
"noand this is the first time i post on eve forums..."
"***no***"
"no."
"no!"
"cosmetic only"
"noplz no"
"no !"
"no !!"
"no"
"no."
"nooo"
"no !"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"no"
"noif you allow it even for cosmetic items it's a door that can't be closed. maybe a year ago i would of said yes to cosmetic items but ccp can no longer be trusted with their own game."
"no.i was ok with cosmetic only. i didn't like mt even back then, but i believed ccp when they sayed that it would be confined to vanity items. that trust is lost."
"no"
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic"
"no to micro transactions"
"hell no. like so many have stated already, ccp have lost any and all trust that could have enabled a compromise of any kind. either the morons give in, or people walk and they can try extort a few leftover kids for 70$ crap."
"no...... for god sake no."
"no!"
"no"
"no.the insertion of an outside force (rl $$$ for aur) will only cripple this economy, not improve it."
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"no."
"no!!!!!"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"cosmetic only.i dont care if a rich boy wants a golden necklacei'd be placing an item called ship paint also in vanity items store.anything that does not interfere with gameplay is ok with me.i just dont care how my enemy looks like,i just want him to suffer if he looses his ship"
"no"
"cosmetic only.they'll pay even better when you have their pods scrammed and they realize their income isn't as disposable as it was the day they bought their monacles."
"no"
"cosmetic only (with a promise to never go beyond that) - no harm is done by that and ccp still has some additional income."
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"no."
"no."
"no.. just no."
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"no."
"nonever."
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic onlypreferable through vanity item bps being sold in the store."
"cosmetic only"
"vanity only"
"no"
"i would say cosmetic but that would undoubtedly open the door to sneak in microtransactions for other things as well on a long term.so a clear no."
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"no, because eve has the worst of 2 payment systems.a relativly high sub cost, and a massivly overcharged mirco transaction system."
"vote no"
"no."
"no"
"no"
"no mt"
"cosmetics / vanity only"
"no!"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetinc/vanity onlynothing that can alter/change gameplay"
"no..it's really that simple"
"no"
"no...because i think cosemtic only would just be the begining...i think if clothes would be npc goods, traded in the normal market...it wouldn't be anyone aganist it..."
"no"
"no."
"no"
"a resounding no"
"cosmetic only"
"no!"
"no, no, no, no.need i say more."
"*no*"
"no"
"no. listen to your community ffs."
"please no!"
"cosmetics / vanity onlyi don't know what the big fuss is about this, and why some people have to be complete a**holes about it.ccp has expanded and with expansion comes great expense; if people want to pay rl $$$ for ship skins or clothes it makes little difference to the game overall and allows ccp to make some more $$$ on the side. why does ccp need more money? if dust flops which lets face, it wasn't the best idea to develop in the first place, without mt it might well be a subscriptions price hike to keep the company on it's feet none of us want this.eve's micro transactions are different from other games for 2 main reasons1. these items can be destroyed2. they can be brought using isk through buying of a plexwhats the difference between buying a plex for 400mill isk and buying these items with aur or,buying a plex using rl money and buying these items?ans: nothing different then eve today; both is a loss of 400mill isk, and isk can be brought with real $$$ through plex.game changing items on the other hand, would be tricky to implement. if they are too cheap it would just screw the game-play up, it could have been done and i don't hate ccp for considering it, but regardless it would be counter productive with the amount of negative feedback it has received for them to implement it now."
"no !!!!"
"no"
"cosmetics only"
"cosmetics only."
"no"
"no!"
"no.and ffs, lose the cq altogether."
"big freaking no"
"nocosmetic-only sounds innocuous in theory, but given the contradictions quoted in the beginning of this thread, it seems too much like a platform for advantage-giving items for cash to be pushed into the game anyway."
"vote noi can admit \"cosmetic only\" with more adequate price (i.e. lower). as it has been noticed already by someone here \"cents, not dollars\"."
"no!"
"no!"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only.edit: why not no? because i understand the argument ccp needs to earn extra bucks now. they are in hands of (as i understand) a venture capital fund and venture capital funds are not sated with \"steady flow of funds\" (i.e. subscription) into their wallets. they want increase. they want ebitda growth 15-20-25 per cent per annum. subscriptions won't give it to them. will mt for monocles do? i do not know. but i would give it a try rather than see eve closed as a \"business without growth perspective\"."
"cosmetic only"
"no!and i will unsub if this continues un-addressed by ccp. listen to your loyal following ccp, or reap the whirlwind."
"no.this is my first forum post, and i speak from 4 paid accounts."
"no"
"no on all three my accounts :p"
"cosmetic only"
"no."
"vanity only."
"no."
"nononnieniethindineinumm thats all the languages i know :)"
"no!"
"first time posting in forums, no."
"cosmetic onlywalk on station, avatars and cosmetic items is a good idea for roleplay etc. but introducing any other form of item that gives you some advantage for money is an offense for who already pays his subscription and for who makes his best to be a good player."
"cosmetic onlyi would say this includes things like additional character slots, and perhaps a monthly upgrade that allows one additional character on an account to train skills during that month. this would not directly affect gameplay for various reasons but would be advantageous none the less for those who don't want to pay/play for multiple accounts simultaneously but want additional characters for different roles. also for those who literally can't multi-client. it would give us the ability to customize our subscription.i'd also say having an option to pay for a jump clone might be good (rather than paying for standings to allow one), if they just have to have more mt options. naturally traditional acquisition remains in place as an alternative. but i don't see this as hugely impacting game-play. it can't kill my ship.for the record i multi-client and i don't like the idea that ccp wants to double dip from my wallet with game affecting mt options. since i'm already giving them double the monthly allowance. mt should always boil down to \"that would be nifty\" rather than \"how the hell am i supposed to work around that?\""
"no"
"yespeople have a right to do with their money what they want. also, i hereby support an increase in the cost of monthly gaming time to 50.00 usd."
"no no and hell no"
"cosmetic only!"
"no."
"no, never!! u, sir, are starting to devastate one of the last great games!"
"no"
"no ..."
"cosmetic only"
"yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!yes!i say yes!i want more options!"
"cosmetic only"
"no. if they needed to up the subscription for more cash they could, and yeah, some people might leave. i won't be paying any subscription though for an mt game. i mean think about it: you're paying them (in subscription fees) to pay their programmers to create more virtual goods that you have to fork out cash for again (in microtransactions), to maintain the same enjoyment level out of the game that you had before incarna without them. take your money and run...i did it to soe when they displayed similar behavior, and although i never thought ccp would lean the same way...here they are, greedy for more cash. nothing but disdain do i have for them now."
"no, cosmetic vanity items only, no to pay to win"
"noit would draw resources to items that only a few would buy, and thus not benefit the entire playerbase."
"no.i say this because once you start on the \"oh, well it's cosmetic only.\" path you leave the door open for gold ammo and ships later on. keep that crap out of the sandbox."
"no!!!!cosmetic only (if there is no chance to stay with \"no\")"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"yes"
"my vote goes to:only cosmetics"
"no"
"no"
"pay to win sucks - i say:let them wimps buy cosmetic ****, but keep them diing as easily as today.cosmetic only"
"no"
"nonot even cosmetics that can<U+FFFD>t be destroyed"
"just cosmetics.anything else is ****ty as hell and will make eve go diaf. (no, this is neither an offence against a person nor a death-thread or any other **** usable as justification to cancel my accounts. this is purely and only my personal foreboding on what will happen to this game if crap like gold ammo ever makes it online. sorry ccp)"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no!"
"no - you can add 9 accounts worth of no to that tally as if the micro transactions continue into something other than vanity items my entire corp will be moving on."
"cosmetic onlyyeah, no issues really with \"vanity\" items, regardless of the prices that ccp set, i doubt i will be buying any of them anyway. but if they plan to start adding items that are effectivly going to detract from the ecconomy of eve then that would be a very bad move."
"no, if it happens im out."
"no! no! and no!!!not even cosmetic!"
"no!"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"no!cosmetic is fine but i would rather use isk ingame for those too. don't **** eve up ccp, it will only bring about your downfall!"
"cosmetic onlyi like a little differentiation. if someone wants to look different then by definition they make my default look more unique. if it helps keep our game alive and well then by all rights make cosmetic purchases available. i don't care if the guy i just podded has $5000 in clothing on or is wearing freebies, so long as he dies the same."
"no"
"cosmetic onlyif anyone does remember or sat thru the economic presentation at fanfast they hinted at adding more microtransactions to bring a bit more balance to the economy of eve. now i'm no expert but the gentalmen speaking was, its quite possible that this addition is meant to get ppl to use there plex on no consequence items to bring the value of isk up. i think the last thing we want is for the game to fail due to our in game greed.**disclaimer as said not an expert, just looking at this thru unbiased eyes and taking all the factors into account on this topic.*** flame on"
"no"
"no."
"yes"
"cosmetic only."
"no."
"no.lets try to keep eve as eve and not some other mmo toilet."
"no"
"no"
"no!"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"hell nooooo!!!!!"
"nowhat is eve to become an microtransaction f2p want to be... god please no."
"cosmetic only"
"no."
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"no."
"no!"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"noand noandno thank you for time ccp hope u listen and not to sony"
"no"
"(no)"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"nononononooh, and i forget: nnnnnnnnnnnoooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo!**** it!"
"no"
"no - eve is special, only game of its kind. lets not kill it off :)"
"no no no no no no !"
"yes yes yesi want to buy sp and faction gear with my hard earned iskies!"
"no"
"don't pay with isk though... pay with plex/aur...it's ****in' mayhem. i think ccp have run outa money. really."
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only... or no"
"no !!!!!!!!!!!!"
"no or cosmetic only"
"no !"
"nothis is an alt account, my main is already unsubbed.btw my main is an industrialist that produces t2 goods. i feel sorry for those folks that posted \"yes\", because they will need huge amounts of real money to pay for anything not t1 soon. how about 30 bucks for a mwd ii? lol gl with that!"
"no x3 for my three accounts."
"no"
"no x2 for both my accounts"
"no"
"no."
"yes"
"no"
"noalready seen many mmo becoming ****ty because of the \"pay to win\", don't want to see this on my eve :("
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"im fine with it for just cloths but not the sp remaps and special ships ive heard rumors about"
"no"
"noeffingway"
"cosmetic only.touch anything that might unbalance the game and its over"
"cosmetic only is fine. even the extortionate prices are fine. what isn't fine is the idea that someone with spare cash in rl can use it to gain a gaming advantage in new eden. so no ships or ammo or mods or skillpoints or implants please. only stuff that doesn't affect play beyond making the rest of new eden laugh at you for spending the equivalent of two and a half freighters on a monocle...."
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"no.and die in hell ccp for this bull****."
"nobut if mt is here to stay then cosmetic only, if buying sp for isk came in i would quit"
"definitly no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"cosmetici want to say no - given i do not trust ccp hardly at all anymore (cookie derp-gate, lies on mt, the list goes on and on)but i do want to see aur for custom paint jobs on ships and what not. if someone wants to pay for that as long as it isn't the slippery slope that it seems to be."
"cosmetic only - if ccp needs more cashflow so be it but i will not let it happen at my expense"
"no, but since it's been stated the nex is here to stay, if it stays at vanity items, that's somewhat acceptable, but it would be nice if mayhaps instead of just getting the item, you got a bpc or something and you have to buy some consumers goods via the market to produce them...you can't just have everything because you have money."
"no"
"no because i'm not a wallet which you can make empty, i'm a player and you have to entertain me."
"cosmetic only.no functionality stuff, no convenience stuff no items."
"cosmetic only - with two conditions:1. these cosmetic items are treated in exactly the same way as other in-game items (you want a nice jacket, you take the materials to the store, add aur = jacket)2. these cosmetics items are either destroyed with the pod or drop in a can - same as ship mods.otherwise no to mt"
"no.all out no. this is my first post on the forums, i tend to lurk around instead. this entire mt debacle has brought me to actually reply to something meaningful.not renewing this account until we have a proper answer from ccp."
"cosmetic only!i think i would like to laugh furtively at people who bought a t-shirt worth 200  :d."
"no. none. never ever. let vanity items be part of the player driven economy. ah, and let them be destructible."
"no"
"no.i don't trust ccp not to evolve mt.raise the monthly fee if need be,but keep mt out of eve."
"noremove this crap completely"
"cosmetic only"
"no.must be removed to cool down current riots in jita."
"no.eve is already one of the most expensive games to play per month, it does not need to be morealso, why isn't there a poll function on these forums, fail"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"no!"
"no"
"no dont destroy this unique game"
"no."
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic onlyi don't think there's any real problem if it's just clothes and accessories for your character model. as soon as you can buy ships, missiles, or anything that slightly affects gameplay you are cruising down a very dark alley filled with clowns holding guns and masked people with bats and razor blades."
"no! absolutely not!!i have no issues with vanity items that have no in-game effect. but, i have zero trust that once the mechanism is in place, they won't start sneaking in \"pay to win\" items. this is why i say no to mt. if the mechanism is there, they will eventually use it."
"no (but i'm open to cosmetic items at micro prices)"
"no"
"noas we see even allowing a bit will just let people get used to it."
"noslippery bloody slope"
"no."
"novanity only if they are a) cheapb) not linked to isk - just make em $ only and be done with it."
"no2 active accounts"
"cosmetic only, and only if prices are reasonable (they currently really aren't)"
"no thanx.oh yeah, 3 active accounts for me."
"since ccp already had some \"hidden\" mt with plex (buy some plex -> sell it to isk, dunno how to call it except \"mt\" :p), i'm afraid that it's too late to say \"no\" to mt.in that case, my vote:cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only, and if only the prices are severely reduced, i don't want to have to pay 60 dollars for a crappy looking monocle."
"cosmetic only"
"noremember what happened to funcom, you ccp are heading in the very same direction with these lies (cq not optional) and microtransactions.my gtx 295 running on 5 accounts asked me to tell you that u are more stupid than u look."
"no."
"cosmetic only2 accounts."
"no."
"cosmetic onlyseriously if your gonna add microtransactions that effect gameplay you might as well make it free."
"no"
"vanity only"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"no. plex is far enough"
"cosmetic only"
"can't really say no since plex trade is a variety of mt....cosmetic only"
"notwo active accounts"
"no, no and no"
"cosmetic only"
"no to micro-(macro-)transactions in eve."
"cosmetic only2 accounts with cancelled subscription for the time being..."
"no for those voting for cosmetic - as soon as it's in there - it won't stop on cosmetic! that's a business model! look at tf2...at upcoming bf3. i'd better pay for expansions then get owned in eve by those who bought big guns...big ships and stuff. if microtrasactions make it to eve in full extent (more then cosmetic) - i quit! no big deal for ccp:)) but that's how i feel about that sh*t."
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only, and reduce prices!(i want purple drake, but idno - ship \"skins\" are cosmetic or more \"hardcore\" for mt)"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"nomonoclegate"
"no"
"no"
"noperiod, i dont wast my time with idiots that have big wallets"
"nosay no to microtransactions, keep eve awesome!"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no to microtransactions ingame !please visit your user settings to re-enable images.keep eve awesome !"
"cosmetic only"
"no.perfect. i won't have said better."
"nooooooo!"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no!dejen de sangrarnos! sanguiuelas!piensen un poquito mas en los que pagan con plex!"
"no"
"no."
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no!!"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no, dont wanna another money, or cosmetic stuff, and i don like microtransactions, i wanna my eve as they sold me time ago."
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"noand no"
"no"
"no"
"nosomebody please think of the children"
"please no"
"cosmetic/non-gameplay affecting"
"no!!!"
"no please"
"yes!i would love to see special ships purchased with microtransactions.i would love to see farming and botting activities ingame replaced by microtransactions. think of all the fun you griefers can have by hunting them down and killing those ships in hi-sec? i bet you are going to pod the poor pilots too for added entertainment value.as a matter of fact we already have microtransactions ingame, camouflaged as plex. so why all the whining?apparently ccp is not running an online game, they are running a kindergarten.better call it plex transactions instead, so the kiddies can return safely to their game."
"no.it's much easier to draw a definite line than a blurry one. do not have micro transactions at all"
"i would like to see the old hangar view again, to spin my ship and easily open the ships cargo bay etc ... i want to play a space ship game and not a walk around in stations game where you can fly with a spaceship to another station to walk around ..."
"im trying to follow your point , but i believe the new hanger we have today is a good idea..its an anvenue you have when you have to station spin , or when no one is on to run with. hopefully when we get to explore the station we are actually have things to do like sit at tables, drink a cocktail or two , or just roam around doing buissness as usual . if you noticed , you dont have to walk at all when you dock up . everything can still be done by menue alone . you can undock from anywhere"
"step between space and cq is definitely a must.immersion +1"
"1.0"
"+1and also fix the messages....it doesn't make sense to change a ship and afterwards get a session change timer message telling \"you're already have way abord\", when in reality standing in front of the control pannel in your quarter."
"bring back the old station view!!!!"
"bring back old hangar view. make cq optional"
"bring back the old hangar and restore usabilitymake cq optional, the automatically leave the ship when docking is immersionbreaking, as is the locked door on every station"
"+1 absolutely"
"definitely+1"
"supported up to points 3 and 4, cutscenes are uneccessary and should not e any longer than the session timer should they exist at all."
"1.0"
"main post has been edited to make it clear that the cutscenes should be optional, similar to the introduction movie that is played when eve is installed for the first time."
"agree"
"very well worded and thought out. yes."
"i support this proposal. i would like to see more fixes rather then new content such as cq."
"1.0"
"1.0"
"yuppers"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"yes.sadly, i no longer have any faith in ccp... but i hope ccp wakes up in time to listen to the community's input and save this game."
"+1not sure if ccp cares (or has ever cared) to listen to this particular message, especially at this point in time, but that makes it no less laudable for all that. it is worthy of support at all times."
"+1why would ccp knowingly release a broken mac client? issues were reported (as best as could be possible, given that the mac singularity client was also broken) way before tq release, and yet these issues were ignored. this is excellence? <feels cold, sm"
"do you think we're all rich, ccp...? surprisingly, that's not the case.$19.99-per-month.no content left out. do it this way, or you suck... and guess what? i don't pay half-the-cost-for-a-new-aaa-title every-damn-month on the dot, for games from suck-ass developers.+1/signed.have a nice day."
"then the email was deleted in negligence restrictions on frequency have been proposed alreadybetter than character transfers in which there is no in-game mechanic (unregulated) of tracking people the loophole of escaping reputation is what exists now and that is because it is unregulated, name changing is a regulated alternative. again, better than character transfers since name changing is a regulated alternative, instances which would have otherwise become character transfers may be diverted to name changing leading to less unregulated (your exploits) actions. go for it name changes should not transfer in the event of a character transfer (reverting to the oldest name) and/or no character having been transferred will ever be allowed a name change has been proposed already"
"because monocles also don't get destroyed when you get podded!"
"yes!"
"support.or just add benefits to monocles that are comparable ot those of implants - least you can expect for the price."
"needs to be optional. i miss spinning my ship.cq was interesting for about 2 mintues, now it's annoying enough that i already find myself playing less. i'll unsub 2 of my 3 accounts if they don't sort it soon. i think \"being shown the door\" was a hint for those who turn off the station environment - like it or leave."
"good luck make work"
"i support a option to turn cq off."
"1.0"
"+1.i'd prefer to have it taken out of the game entirely, but never seeing it again is the next best thing."
"+1no need to display in wallet"
"1.0"
"+1signed."
"1.0"
"i am on the same page with marlona here (i cant believe its actually posible)"
"dogs and cats living together..."
"i'm not sure how i feel about the wallet issue, so i wrote another post that's just for the aur thing, as i can't currently support the wallet thing.please go here and add your support, guys."
"1.0"
"+1 to both parts of proposal"
"would make more sense to remove that crap altogether.,..."
"best way: remove aur completelydirty hack: dont force me to see my aur balance - i am not going to buy this crap anyway"
"t'amber has left out the option to remove it all together. so here you can vote if you want micro transactions removed altogether, and if the existing vanity items should be turned into actual game content (i.e. as lp store rewards for the militia, etc.).players will still be able to spend real money on plex and turn it into isks. only will there be no additional code in the game for a secondary currency, nor will there be a noble exchange. isk will remain as the only currency. players, who want items for their vanity need to obtain them as before, through playing the game.check the \"support this topic\" box and post \"yes\" for your support, or otherwise leave a commentary.clarification: why do i not want plex to be removed, too? because plex brought many new players into the game. it is also the lesser of two evil, with the other evil being the goldsellers, but in return did we get a play-for-free model and it allowed the eve community to grow. what we bought with our subscriptions, if you so will, was an expansion of the eve community.i do not believe in any kind of gain coming from micro transactions for us. so i rather would like to see the militia getting some uniforms with which they can identify and distinguish themselves with, which then will likely been seen as a gain by a part of the community. it will contribute to their game play and makes eve more attractive to all gamers and has got a good chance to increase the community and to provide a long-term value for the game. this just as an example of what clothing can be used for. items of vanity are not a gain. i actually find it hard to come up with things to add to the game that are worse than vanity items.edit: corrected typing.edit: clarification.ps: please bump my thread on general discussion, which links to this one."
"**** microtransactions."
"/signed"
"you're just mad you don't have a monocle"
"+1 no mt for me"
"love the idea, will support."
"i'll resubscribe if we get rid of this bad idea.why wasn't there a poll before they brought micro-transactions to the game? or are they all just to selfish?is my signature conflicting with the ability to see the \"support this topic\" box? :/--or did i just miss it while posting?"
"no, i am not."
"i will not play a subscription game that also uses microtransactions. the two income sources are mutually exclusive.suddenly introducing microtransactions to a game that had gone without them for the better part of a decade is even worse. if ccp is in desperate need of more income, of which there has been no indication, i would rather support raising base subscription price by $1-$2."
"no microtransactions, or in this case, megatransactions."
"yes"
"yesi hate mictrotransactions with a passion."
"yes"
"yes.i have been asking for this since the release of incarna. it is completely game-destroying and does nothing to support the game we all fell in love with. (remember, we all subscribed *before* incarna)."
"come on ccp, you guys always wanted to be different from everyone else. why not just say no to micro-transaction and not conform to the industry standard.remove this plague that is micro-transactions.supported"
"supported."
"yes"
"that i want."
"+3 supported"
"yes, remove all mt. /signed"
"supported"
"no mt."
"1.0"
"yes."
"remove mt's from eve, or i'll remove eve from my machine. non-negotiable.+1/signed."
"no microtransactions -- none remove aurm. my accounts stay cancelled."
"signed"
"1.0"
"remove nex; remove aurum.i don't trust ccp with mt now.raise the monthly fee if you must,but don't break eve."
"1.0"
"yup."
"of course."
"yes"
"remove them all together."
"i could live with the nex just selling vanity itemsbut by completely removing aur from the game there is less to worry about non vanity items being soldso down with mt and aurum"
"no microtransactions."
"no mt!"
"signed"
"no to microtransactions."
"signed"
"no mts!!!"
"signed"
"no on mt"
"yes"
"supported"
"no on mt!"
"signed & supported."
"no to mt!!"
"mt must go!!!"
"/signedmt have no place in eve"
"supported!"
"don't care if ppl buy clothes or monicals. no to non-vanity mt +2"
"for what's it worth, no mt!though i fear we all know that they aren't going anywhere, having been dubbed \"virtual goods\""
"no to additional mt. plex is far enough"
"considering it was crowdsourced last year and ended with a resounding no, it should have never been developed."
"per ccp. mt was not supposed to be in eve......please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"mt is fine for games like lol and wot where people log in, play a little, and invest very little time into the game itself.eve is not lol or wot. this game requires time, energy, and :effort: to get from point-a to point-b. instantly spawning items, including vanity items, defies what makes this game unique and fun."
"/signedamen.edit: support +1"
"+1remove mt, remove aur, i will gladly pay more per month/year to play eve."
"remove it all together! ccp says, they only accepts a mutal agreement ? nice ! don't leave the table untill they remove it all together ! stay there even if they torture you !for the community !"
"yes"
"signed"
"yes remove all microtransactions"
"sorry guys but you have to realize there wont be any turning back from ccp on that point.there will be microtransactions including vanity items (non-vanity would be a suicide from ccp as we can see for a few days) and there is nothing we can do about it. it's pretty sad to have our dev team be some greedy crappy bastards but thats the way it is.anyway, sure, i'll support your topic, but it's hopeless ;)"
"yes"
"quitting eve, but as long as my subscription is active for another two more months, here's my support."
"no. if microtransactions are removed, so, too, is plex. with the removal of plex, we get back into the black market of rmt to pay for isk, which brings more bots, which effects the economy.the developers have already said that aurum and their microtransaction model is here to stay, so instead of voting to remove it, which is hopeless and a waste of effort, votes should be tallied and suggestions gathered on ways to improve the system, such as voting to ensure it remains entirely vanity-based (such as paint jobs for vessels, clothes for capsuleers, wallpaper for your captain's quarters, what have you), or perhaps asking for differing prices for nex items. right now all you're doing is setting yourselves up to get more angry when ccp doesn't listen to your demands, when you could have realized in the first place it's a hopeless battle. focus the energy on bettering and improving the system to something you can agree with, instead of wasting time, physical and emotional energy."
"no microtransactions, period."
"ok make the system bpc only... make it so i have to use pi to get the raw materials and then turn them into goods using a bpc that i bought with arum... make it so i have a store in the station where i can sell my items for isk...just dont have it log in click button then have it majically apear!!!!"
"i don't want to live with a compromised mt system, and won't focus any energy into a system that is the antithesis to the spirit of this game. my accounts are already unsubscribed, and will stay that way as long as they keep pushing mt."
"with the new in-station environment, we no longer have the ability to simply right click on our active ships and open their cargoholds. instead, we have to either go through the ship fitting window or the ship hanger...the former being a bit unwieldy and the latter being nearly maddening (open window > right click ship > navigate dropdown to find the cargohold).this is a little thing, granted, but this is a heavily used process...and the station services window has room for one more shortcut. :)"
"you are supposed to make the game more fun to play..."
"hello csm members.i hope this is the best place to put this, as i am not sure if an evemail could handle the wall of text i am about to type. if the csm would like me to forward this to a regular email or different venue, simply drop me an evemail in game and let me know.i have been following the recent protests and amusements here in eve and was told to get in touch with our csm members so that they could take our concerns to the meeting upcoming meeting in reykjavik, iceland. here are the items i would like to see addressed.the noble store and its futurei have no issue with the noble store as is, other than the somewhat absurd pricing. i really do not see myself using the wis portion of eve until there is far more content. however, the future of the noble market really has me concerned. i am absolutely 110% against having anything in the store that can alter the in game world in any way, whether it is items (the gold ammo) or services (additional ship fitting slots, skill remapping, factions standing) for aurum. clothing/bling? no problem there. ship decals? still no problem. need an additional remap of your stats? problem. the latest dev blog is not quite clear on this, so i would like to see a truly clear statement from them on where this noble market will lead. i need to know if no game changing/altering items will be available in the store. if we decide to change this policy, we will tell you, our customers, know that the plan is changing and why we are changing it. this is my #1 request.communication and trust issuesevery bit of rage that has transpired has its root in poor communication from ccp to its players. the problem is, i have no idea how to solve this issue. we have tons of resources that ccp has available (the csm, their own feedback forums/systems, the dev blogs) but ccp never seems to take them seriously. a lot of the rage was caused when people who care greatly about the game a) read communications from ccp that were poorly worded, unclear and even a bit confrontational/condescending or b) gave their feedback when it was requested just to see it fall on deaf ears. a prime example of the latter is all of the feedback given during the various tests on singularity. there are so many issues that are known and reported that just get ignored when the stuff is released to tranquility. it is hard enough to trust ccp on issues that they do ask our opinions on just to have it pushed aside as though it was never brought up. now the player base has to trust ccp on those things we have no inputs on. i think a good first step would be to have this round of csm meetings be extremely open to the eve populace, so we can actually see if ccp are serious about regaining our trust and addressing our issues.(cont.)"
"incarna issuesi know someone who has a computer bought within the last year or so. his graphics card was toasted by wis. while he has enough income to handle that expense, there are some serious performance issues with the wis portion of incarna. there needs to be a way to adjust the graphic settings for the space/wis portions of incarna individually so that those who might have issues with wis can still use it without gimping the rest of their eve experience. on the same note, it would be really nice to know how long the temporary ability to bypass wis via the load station environment checkbox will be in game and if there is any plan to have some sort of minimal station environment in the long run. i still have loading issues in the station, which is really annoying when all i am trying to do is pickup an item and undock. like many people have said, a simple popup asking if i desire to disembark instead of entering my cq would be great, even if the ship spinning deal is gone forever. (i miss that) lastly, there is a definite lack of polish to the cq environment. i know this is only the first iteration, but there are so many lighting, clipping and clucky walking issues that it really detracts from the wis experience. this is a more miner concern, but it definitely adds to the whole why should i care about wis-aka the aurum storefront if they seemed to have pushed it through at about 85% complete?the $99 dollar developers feethis one is getting worked on by ccp, but it would be nice to re-voice our concerns that only the people trying to make a profit from ccps ip should need this license. fan sites, forums, free to use, isk donation or sites with ads should not have to pay for the fees, and should be fine with a free one. i see so many wonderful apps, sites and features that our player base has created and it really seemed like a slap in the face to them the way this was put out. i just want them reminded that this is also an issue that they cannot let slip.those are the items that i really want to see on the table when you talk to ccp. hopefully, what we hear back will start rejuvenating my lost trust in ccp and that of the other players as well."
"dear coplayersi am rodrom caldera. player of eve for a long time. i am just a player as yourself. my sole drive to make this thread for the good of eve-online and its player base.in this forum i want to start collecting the questions that the csm members can take to ccp. we need to be as one unity to get this matter resolved. below i accumulated already a few of the questions. make the cq optional and bring back the old hanger bay(read spinning ship). make it so that we get the option to disembark. thus reducing the lag/loading times of docking up into the station. - this also make players with older pcs able to play eve again. is ccp planning to introduce non-vanity items. items that will enhance the game in any sort? communication. we want ccp to communicate in a better way. good communication will prevent a crisis like we seen in the past few days.a very good way is to open up a monthly question blog. in this blog the most pressing questions can be collected and answered. what was the reason ccp implemented the mt system? and what are the alternative options for mt there is many hatred thrown around during this crisis. maybe as a token of trust, it is possible to pardon a few ppl. this to open up a bridge between player base and ccp. if there is a certain reason that those players still be banned, let us know the reason. if micro transaction is here to stay. is it possible to lower prices this to make it more accessible for less fortunate players. quality over quantity. addressing the old bugs first before implementing new content to regain our mutual trust. a statue. this wil stay there till end of time to show cooperation between ccp end there player base - i would sudjest a statue with a full circle of ships around(konga) shooting it. as a symbol of unity is there a money issue with ccp? and is there any way we can help you as a community solving this problem? more transparency! this beyond the csm. open up the future of eve to us. so we all can help you guide it. let the csm be effective in translating the needs of the player. please put your questions in this forum.i will update the question list accordingly.i will update the question list accordingly."
"why are we suffering and taking the brunt of immersion-breaking/market-destroying real money trading because ccp chose to divert funds to 2 other game projects?"
"thatand please i hope csm will keep us very updated this time round. . .ccp this is actually your last chance. are you aware of that? :("
"we also have a survey regarding this, if any of you are willing to fill this out.we ask very specific questions, we are not doing an open list for discussion.light speed interactive questionnaire"
"bring back the old station view!!!"
"fix the game. i dont give a flying turtle's rearend about walking around in stations.we have bugs that is retartet old.fix 0.0, fix ship ballance.we dont need eyecandy, but we do need to have fun again playing the game.the community needs to be respektet.we pay for the game, you deliver the produkt we want, otherwise there will be -4 subs on my behalf.i actuarly pay for 3 games, eve, dust and wod, the stockholders/investors should pay for the development for a game, i dont like beeing a cashcow."
"can we throw a \"free our political prisoners\" in there, by any chance?"
"definitely this.it is thorough, non-aggressive, and very well thought out. it should be printed out and hand delivered to the top level management.unfortunatley, we can only hope they will read it."
"i don't have questions, i have demands.1) micro-transactionsno micro-transactions beyond purely cosmetic value. that means paint jobs, hats, pants, clothing, ship decals, etc. if it is not cosmetic, pure fluff vanity, it is an anathema to the sandbox! if a player can sit in a chair, then players should make the chair! if ccp wants to charge for a paint job for the chair, then charge for nicer chairs that are functionally no different from player made chairs, and require a player made chair to even produce!no rental fees on bars, store fronts, etc beyond isk! no gambling for anything other than isk!no faction standings, no rental fees for \"more ship fittings\", no security status fees/fixes/bribes/theft!2) cqmake cq optional by giving us the old hangar, and a button to get out of our pod and go into the cq if we want to do that. i look forward to walking in stations. i do not look forward to walking in lag or being forced into a clothing store for $1000 pants!fix the damn thing - you are melting people's hardware! this horrific cpu and memory eating toy should not have made it out the door. it has leaks, i have watched them, it is not good. fix it. quality matters, beauty fades.3) communicate!i find it amazing how out of touch you, ccp, have become with your customers. you thought we were mad about the cost of some silly cartoon pants? we made a fuss because it is such a joke, it just added fuel to growing skepticism.you may have very well done irrevocable harm to the trust of your customers. get back in touch with your roots. you are not microsoft, you are not sony, you are not apple - you're a game company. we should not be seen as your customers, we should be seen as your friends. that is the power and value of an independent production house. if you can not grasp this, you are lost."
"1 - unban any accounts that were banned for linking to / disseminating the fearless newsletter2 - get confirmation from ccp that only vanity items will be available for purchase with aur.3 - get prices in the nex store brought down to a realistic level. 4 - establish a precedent for ccp to talk to both the csm and the player-base before launching similar ventures, and explain their stance / direction in detail."
"please do not take away my fun. read my concerns."
"linking my thread aswell for completionhere"
"make cq optional by giving us the old hangar, and a button to get out of our pod and go into the cq if we want to do that......... thats all ............ oh and stuff all microtransaction's in the station reactors might have some use there."
"as per popular vote:"
"whatever the questions asked, can the csm push ccp for definite answers?i don't want to hear the words \"may\", \"could\" or \"maybe\" in ccp's responses. i want answers that are factual statements, not the kinds of answers we've received over the last week.do not accept vague answers."
"i'm somewhat new (half a year), but love eve just the same as any. the only thing i would ask of ccp is that they devote more resources to improving the quality and stability of their product, before focusing on expanding and finding new ways to profit from it. i have tried very hard to bring other gamer friends of mine to eve, but have had no success due to what they all agree is an un-polished game. i have also never experienced as many glitches and crashes with any other online game, which really makes it a labor of love, patience, and irrational forgiveness to keep playing as much as i do.with the recent expansion, and activation of the noble exchange store, it appears to me that quality is taking a back seat to pursuing revenue through the ability to buy virtual property the way so many other gaming companies are these days. don't forget that the best way to increase and maintain revenue is by having a product that is good, and therefore attracts more customers.i really hope this message reaches the ears of a company that cares. your community obviously does. thank you for any attention you give to my humble input."
"that.please make cq optional, with a disembark from the ship hanger view."
"in addition to making it optional, could we please make seperate graphics settings for in space and in stations? one setting doesn't appear to fit all."
"will we see mt for non-vanity items?"
"-fix glitches that ocure, to me these are more impotent then vanity iteams-have good customer support when i need it i need it-concentrate on fixing then updating the game-alow us to lower station walking graphics lower end computers like mine can't suppo"
"im trying to adress all question you guys present, but keep in mind that the question need to be related to the incarna patch or mt. reason that t2 ships got a low insurrence is because insurrence covers the basic costs of the resources needed to build it. as resource are player driven prices are alot higher then basic cost.ccp wil prolly never change the insurrance policy towards t2 ships/faction ships as it is ment to be a money sink.keep putting your questions in!!! thanks guys for helping out"
"i agree wholeheartedly with both that link and the replies in this thread so far (up to post #21 as i write this).the overall feeling i got from incarna was that it was a rush job to meet release deadline. there is well established precedent for delaying a patch if it isn't quite ready yet, an option which i feel incarna could have greatly benefited from (as evidenced by 3-4 hotfixes being released within hours/days of patch day) but which for whatever reasons was ignored. why was incarna not delayed?the communication breakdown as pointed out before was also evident in the fact that it wasn't until patch day, i believe, that the patch notes were released. again, there's precedent for releasing patch notes days or even weeks early and adjusting them as necessary when something doesn't make the patch or gets added at the last minute. why was this not done?as for the nex, personally i don't care the vanity items currently on sale are ridiculously overpriced, i'll just never buy one. i do care however when even the idea of non-vanity items gets uttered. i already pay a subscription fee which in theory gives me equal access to everything any other subscriber has access to. i can live with the idea of losing a ship to a better pvper, either through higher sp count, better fitting, better tactics, more friends... i cannot live with the idea of losing to someone with a bigger disposable income. i'd like to hear an unequivocal answer to the question \"will there ever be non-vanity items sold through the nex\"."
"first, this meeting between ccp and the csm is specifically to address micro transactions, and second if there is time after that has been done, then maybe this is relevant. if they do have that time, and it's allowable, then i don't see why they shouldn't briefly discuss other issues.1) make the cq optional and bring back the old hanger bay. make it so that we get the option to disembark. thus reducing the lag/loading times of docking up into the station.this also make players with older pcs able to play eve again.agreed, though i could see an alternative to the hangar bay being functional and acceptable. the point is not to break immersion, while giving pilots a less graphics intensive alternative that is fully functional. i like pod spinning personally, inside my capsule, in my ship.2) is ccp planning to introduce non-vanity items. items that will enhance the game in any sort?i think the answer has been given, if not completely. the ability to get a bpc, or customize a ship extends beyond simple vanity items in incarna related features. that doesn't mean they will be introducing modules and items that haven't previously existed; and there is really no point in selling existing items through micro transactions.3) communication. we want ccp to communicate in a better way. good communication will prevent a crisis like we seen in the past few days.a very good way is to open up a monthly question blog. in this blog the most pressing question can be collected and answered.join twitter and follow the various dev's. they are relatively active there, and it's a far better means of communications than this is, based on recent history, and past experience. i feel that it would be good if ccp incorporated a live dev chat into the new forums, moderated and available at specific times.4) what was the reason ccp inplemented the mt system? and what are the alternative options for mtfrom what i understand, ccp hired a new 3d artist to provide the player requested content, such as new ship textures, clothing, and the like), and micro transactions were brought into play as a means to help cover the additional development costs, while simultaneously providing an isk sink for older wealthier players, and corporation and alliance leaders, and reducing the existing plex on the market to balance out subscriptions vs. income.a large majority of the player base hoards huge amounts of plex, while a greater majority relies on them and others to provide those plex on the market for game time conversion. this means that yearly subscriptions and subscription income do not necessarily jive and balance out. presumeably, these changes may be expected to balance this out.5) there is many hatred thrown to each other. as a token of trust is it possible to pardon a few ppl. this to open up a bridge betwean playerbase and ccp.no opinion, and it's not my place to give one.6) if micro-transaction is here to stay. is it possible to lower prices. this to make it more accessible for less fortunate players.as i understand, the micro transaction system will eventually have available items at multiple price-points. you may not be able to get a monocle, but a new pair of shades?.. maybe. essentially the design implies an evolving caste system, which differentiates the rich from the poor, in terms of isk. plex and rl money need not enter into this equation, given they are purchaseable on the market, and the final use is up to the player.just my thoughts."
"1: what about in addition to the check mark, there is a drop down for station enviorment, pre incarna and post incarna.2: clothes or shuttles aka \"gold shuttles\" would be fine i think. also a side note on this one, the char creator seems to have less option then the old one. i hope they plan to add more \"free clothes\" as time goes on.6: i think the prices should be lower across the board.6:(7*) yes a lot of other issues need to be address but before more content is added. the slow deploy seems to work well with this game. also being able to pre patch would be nice, code is slowly added just not \"turned on\" as of yet."
"wtf is we?"
"hi,i figure as the csm has now the opportunity to go to iceland and have a meeting with ccp to sort out current and future availability of items, (vanity or otherwise), in the noble exchange, now would be a good time to get the community response on the matter.please no chatter, spam, or off-topic conversation. let's keep it readable, with only ideas for or against specific availability., and see if we can collectively come up with some resolution on this for the csm to consider.for myself, it goes as follows, with room for change:items the could be available on nex:- limited run bpc's of items that can be used in game; including painted versions of ships, new shuttles, and other essentially non-game altering content. not including super-ammo, -modules, or -ships.- standard and vanity clothing. for reference, i consider the current selection to be for the ultra-rich and super-vain; though it could be worse and even more extravagant.- limited use items like the cerebral accelerator, which can be used to increase hourly sp gain for a limited duration and speed up skill training, rather than replace it with direct injection of skills/sp. not strictly limited to new players, but with a time limit on use.items that shouldn't be available on nex:- trump card items; where p2w becomes an absolute reality. (i.e.: defensive or offensive modules and ships that offer better capabilities than any available in game items in their finished pre-manufactured form.)- direct sp for aurum purchases.- otherwise unavailable npc stocked items like ded connections or new skill books, but not including limited run bpc's as mentioned above.incomplete list, but it's just their for ideas. this thread isn't intended to create debate. i want you to post your ideas, (neutrally), with regard to what you think should and shouldn't be allowed."
"[x] where needed. maybe not perfect, but i could live with those changes if the game were run that way."
"/signedalthough i believe that the nex store should only involve \"vanity\" items such as:1. custom ship skins (if the ship blows up, you have to buy a new skin).2. clothes and accessories (which are lost should your avatar be killed - hopefully they would allow avatars to be killed in station).what i don't want to see in the mt market (or anywhere in the game for that matter):1. anything that gives you a combat advantage by simply purchasing it with cash.2. ridiculous prices - it makes no sense that a pair of jeans and shoes cost more than a battlecruiser."
"i have to also say that i am not happy with the current way that ccp seems to be taking the game with the introduction of the nex and the extremely over priced vanity items, and the possibility of adding attribute enhancing items to that market. i do not personaly believe that a micro transaction market should even be in the game. the absence there of is part of what has seperated eve from all the other mmo's ever since it's creation and makes eve such and exciting game to play. i personaly would like to see ccp take the micro transaction out of the game completely. further more with this micro transactions market being in game and using plex to convert into the currency to purchase these items they are going to drive the cost of plex up. therfore making it much harder for those that currently pay for their game play buy using there in game isk to purchase the plex. if ccp is not going to listen to the players and do away with the micro transactions then i believe that they are going to loose lots of players from the game. i have already heard from lots of players that they are already planning on not renewing there subscriptions once they expire until ccp removes these micro transaction from its content. additionaly if they decide to keep the micro transactions in the game then it needs to only have vanity items and nothing that will actualy give a player any sort of advantage in the game. for example if it only has paint schemes or clothing or eyeware etc.. then so be it. if a player is willing to purchase these items then this is their choice but i feel that if that ship is destroyed then they should loose the paint scheme etc.. and if they loose thier pod and wake up in a new clone then they should alos loose the vainty item if they were wearing it just like implants. i further believe that the prices of these items should be adjusted to a more reasonable value closer associated with the item. currently many of the items in the nex are the same as or more then say for example and fully fitted large pos with all the accessories etc.. how in the world would a person want to purchase a shirt or monocal that cost them more then a comlete pos system? i do no agree with adding items that give anyone and advantage since this will force other to eventualy have no choice but to also purchase these items in order to stay competative with the rest of the players that do purchase these items. i hope that the council will be able to convince ccp that what they are currently doing is in the wrong direction."
"these are not vanity itemsalso - direct sp for aurum purchases. and - limited use items like the cerebral accelerator contradict each other"
"i didn't say they were all vanity items; i just don't believe that the store should be restricted to such an extent as only allowing clothes. ccp is going to put ships with paint jobs in, in one fashion or another. allowing limited run bpcs of special items of that sort does 2 things: it allows ccp to provide special content like ships with paintjobs, and it allows for those items to be essentially \"economy neutral\", to quote someone else.you cannot copy or research a bpc, and such items are essentially npc provided, while being completely dependent on player manufacturing requirements to enter the game. that should satisfy both sides, and i would actually like to see this sort of thing. obviously, i would also prefer ships like the tornado, should they enter the game, do so as available bpos in game, to be researched and developed by the players.and, items like the cerebral accelerator do not contradict sp for aurum, as a cerebral accelerator only enhances the learning process marginally, where instant sp for aur allows someone to theoretically create a 100 million sp toon overnight. cerebral accelerators also already exist in the game, and may be considered a pre-existing mt item, which required buying a new retail copy to aquire. i did. there is a big difference, though you might argue over semantics.at any rate, this thread isn't intended to create debate. i want you to post your ideas, (neutrally), with regard to what you think should and shouldn't be allowed. updating first post to properly present this."
"in my opinion for rmt items to be fair and maintain balance they must meet 2 requirements.1. anything that can bought with rmt must also be able to be purchased with isk. as long as these items are added to the existing noble exchange this will be the case.2. items added to the noble exchange cannot compete with items available on the regular market. if this rule is breached then it will destabilise the economy.current rmt in game meets these criteria. if all future additions also meet this criteria i can't see a problem arising from rmt.so lets how how the op's suggestions hold up.vanity clothing - no competition with regular market, this is acceptable.cerebral accelerator - if this was added to the noble exchange then it would equally available for isk as it would for real cash. therefore the addition of a feature such as this is not relevant to the rmt discussion, it is simple a gameplay mechanics issue, i.e. does this feature add something positive to the game or not.limited run bpc's of aesthetic variants - bpc's exist in the regular market, you therefore force a player to choose wether to make a regular or stylised version of an item, this fractures the market due unpredictable supply/demand issues. this does not meet requirements. a better suggestion would be to trade in an existing ship plus additional aurum and receive an aesthetically customised one back. as long as their is no functional advantage to the custom ship, this meets requirements.if anyone can thnk of an item that fits these requirements and still \"breaks\" the game, please let me know :)"
"the reason the first batch of items was so expensive was to limit the the effect they would have on plex prices. if they had of introduced cheap items that everyone wanted in on, plex prices would have sky rocketed. instead they introduced items that only appeal to a small percentage of the player market, thus keeping the initial demand for them low. as they add more items for lower prices they can do so gradually which should have very little effect on plex prices overall."
"my ideas are presented on this thread.no \"convenience\" charges for eve online."
"cerebral accelerator type items should not be strictly limited to player control, like the old tech ii bpos or alliance ship bpcs, (these items are game breaking, and in the case of old tech ii bpos, should probably be removed from the game, or reintroduced with added availability). if such items are strictly within the realm of player control, they essentially give one party the ability to control their existence on the market, or hoard their benefits for personal use. as an item available strictly through nex or player conversion to market, they gain added availability, and prices cannot be manipulated by players for personal gains, such as is occurring with their current market presence in contracts.re.: bpcs comment. this in no way fractures the market; it only makes it more difficult to specifically market an item of that sort because you have to determine what players are interested in. your idea hands the players the ability to predetermine an existing market, and target it without having to determine what players will want.an alternative to that, is to sell bpc's that function like regular tech ii bpc's, requiring a ship as part of the material list. this still allows players to custom build their new ship, while allowing you to target the market for that specific ship. of course, players can optionally just build the ship themselves, then use the bpc, to customize it.however, if the ship is built from scratch, that means it does not target already existing controlled markets like tech ii bpcs do, (meaning nullsec alliance controlled moons), and instead targets base minerals, bringing the demand for them up. that to me, is the better scenario.debating this to bump the thread, and maybe gather a little interest, while presenting a valid argument."
"thanks for postingi'd also like to see some csm responses in this thread, and get an idea of what they want with regards to these transactions. it behooves the player base to know these things, as they are our given representatives."
"disclaimer: i posted this in general discussion, but i'm reposting it here in hopes of getting csm attention and thus ccp attention.i think a problem many people, including myself, have with the current aurum store is that it bypasses the player-based economy and creates stuff out of thin air. now, clothing for characters as an in-game item is completely new, so there exists no precedent for it. obviously most people are against the idea of non-vanity items being directly for sale in the aurum store also, but let's talk about vanity items only for a moment.i think it would be better for blueprints (bpc or bpo) for vanity items only were on the aurum store instead of items. that way it would involve the economy. players would have to acquire the materials and make them and sell them on the market and ccp can still make money from its mega\"micro\"-transaction scheme. it would basically be another way for people to exchange real money for isk and would also add more choice for clothing for the players who don't have billions or isk or $60 to blow on a virtual monocle.original blueprints are already created out of thin air when bought from npcs, so that wouldn't be any different. the only difference would be that you spend aurum for them instead of isk. players could even buy plex with isk, convert them to aurum and go that route, probably making a profit on it without having to spend real cash.so, for instance, i could buy a monocle blueprint for some arbitrary amount of aurum, manufacture monocles and sell them for isk. ccp talked about players designing and making their own clothes and selling them in incarna. this would be closer to that than a lame real-cash store for ridiculously overpriced clothes and implants."
"the only problem i see with this is that every item that is created by players is destroyed by players. this creates a constant need for production. vanity items on the other hand are persistent, once a player buy a particular set of jeans, they won't ever buy another set of the same pair. ccp could change them to be destructible on pod death, but then who would ever wear them if they offer no competitive advantage, cost real money and are easily destroyed? there may be some, but thats a very small crowd indeed, and i doubt they would keep it up for long.the other reason is that vanity items by their nature demand a wide variety, true there isn't that much variety in the store at the moment, but i'm sure no one doubts that the number of items in that store will grow. there simply isn't the market volume required to sustain a reasonable variety of player generated items.as long as items in the noble exchange never compete with items on the real market, i can't see how problems would arise."
"vanity items such as clothes, no..but if ever you get ship paint jobs, a bpc with part of the material being an orignal ship.. would workalso if exclusive ships or ammo does come out, they should be bpcs also"
"i want to focus on one item and one item alone for this.this is the idea of charging for convenience based micro-transactions.let's start with the ground work.aur is here to stay, one way or another and to be iterated on. this is not changing, but we can control what is appropriate to buy for aur.i am not discussing \"gold ammo\"/\"non-vanity\" items.that aside.convenience based rmt are for charging players to \"enhance\" their game play by paying for convenience services provided by the game client or server. an explicit example from the \"greed is good?\" newsletter is the charging for more than 50 fittings.i want to say up front that is a poor and inappropriate item - as well as anything related - for the aur store. the reason for this is simple. that philosophy builds into the development of the game that inconvenience is a positive design element for the game and that convenience is something you can profit from through aur.we all pay a subscription and expect the absolute highest quality client and product. we should all get the same client, and noone should be asked to pay more for being less \"burdened\" by the software. i was the very first to post a thread about the limited fittings saved, and i would straight up quit if ccp offered me more fitting space for a price. the reason for that would be that is the wrong philosophy to approach the eve client software.any premise for charging for such a service as more fitting space would be very poorly attributed.the only argument that could be provided to charge for more fitting space would be \"your fittings cost us more server space.\"the counter argument would be very simple:what about all the items i have stored in hundreds of stations, without limit and without exception; including up to potentially thousands of individually identified ships, shuttles and so forth that i could easily have manufactured or purchased that can be said to consume \"unreasoanble storage\". what about the infinite amount of bookmarks that we are permitted to store. what about the infinite amount of \"residual\" data that we produce interacting with the servers every day that are stored for the future. ccp has no issue with unlimited data, with only one exception in \"history\" where they deleted an abundance of \"gate bookmarks\" from the age before warp to 0km.the second argument is the ship dna code to store a fitting is documented in the wiki and is a very simple line of code, and is very much not a large data chunk. evelopedia ship dna entrythe third counter-argument is that a method can be implemented for client side storage, as it was done before the server-side storage. meaning no server side storage issues at all.---to summarize, the premise of convenience based rmt is intrinsically to design inconvenience and burden on the player. this is not in the spirit of ccps promise to its clients to provide excellence. it is also a poor precedence that can lead to finding other opportunities to charge players.this absolutely must be clarified as an unacceptable form of rmt by the csm on their visit this weekend.i will be eve-mailing this post and communication to the csm members as well.support this thread please."
"1.0"
"not to mention that you used to be able to store as many fittings as you liked locally"
"i invited csm to take part in a thread i created for the purpose of gathering player opinions with strict relavence to micro transactions in eve. what you want, and what you don't want. i'd appreciate it if you posted something over there, including your ideas and opinions."
"alright well i dont know how you do it but i cant get solo fights unless its 10:1. not everyone can be as cool as you guys."
"seems like a good idea.. butyou do realise that you're asking ccp to create more code (more bugs) and complicate the game even further? probably cause more lag?what if it bugged and then suddenly you couldn't jump through the gate at all?while this idea is interesting and i kind of like it... i wouldn't want it to be implemented until many other issues in the game are fixed firstand then i read this..yeah.. i think the op may make things even worse actually..."
"alliance 1: we attack in 10 minsalliance 2: they can only have 12 ships come in at a time, camp with 30 shipsalliance 1: jumpalliance 2: fire at will they are bubbled.* wave one is basically destroyed*alliance 2: lol killmails, reload guns for next wave."
"good idea , worth the effort to look into"
"read what he says again, he tells you how."
"since it seems clear that ccp is determined to go in a direction we don't want we need to find a way to redirect. the only way to do that is to come up with ideas that they think will produce as much revenue as theirs, and hopefully for the sake of the community they will take the path of least resistance.i have therefore the following thoughts.additional character slots - like many other games you could buy additional character slots, and in combination with the next suggestion the idea is potentially attractive.character training option - this would allow you to train a second character on your account for one month while your primary is still training. it can be purchased multiple times for additional characters.these two options in combination give us a customized subscription. there are people who can't multi-box/client or don't want to play multiple characters at a time who never the less would like a few alts.nothing needs to be removed and nothing is added to the game and it can't affect gameplay anymore than a second account affects gameplay. which is already a time honored and condoned tradition in eve online.skill transfer - this will be a hard sell and i fully admit that there will be those people who use it extensively. it should be clear that i mean transfer, not fast training, not free training, transfer. again nothing is going to be added to the game. this is the sort of nex item that should cost 80 dollars.the way it could work is a character buys an item blank from the nex that they can then use to transfer a skill they know into the blank, this removes it from that character. that blank can then be bought on the market for isk which can then be used like a skill book with the same requirements to transfer that skill from the blank to the new character.we've added nothing to the game, time has still been spent to acquire the skill points used, isk has been spent to acquire the skill book (by both donor and receiving characters), and more isk to acquire the skill blank to transfer that skill to the new character. these items could easily come in numerous varieties one for each training multiplier and skill level combination i would think. from a lore perspective i think this fits perfectly.i do not see a problem with skill dependency on the part of the skill donor. suppose the skill transferred is required for another skill that character has learned? most items, ships, equipment don't merely list the end skill requirement, but all the dependent skills that needed to be acquired to get there. there are many scenarios of course where this does not hold true, but i think it holds with the lore as well. this will put intentional gaps into peoples knowledge, everything is up for sale even literal chunks of your memory.all these ideas together i would imagine would generate quite a lot of revenue for ccp, without affecting our gameplay on the whole or otherwise affecting our market."
"-1no , sorry but i'm not goin to suggest other forms of mt when i don't want them at all"
"-1 these are not vanity items ."
"no they are not vanity items, but its seems pretty obvious that they are past that already. i'd rather see this than people buying skills period and the ships to go with them. this at least preserves the sum total."
"the player base drew a line in the sand this weekend one that the csm better not cross. anything like this is completely unacceptable . mt should be taken out altogether otherwise just use for paint jobs and space barbies full stop. nothing that adds any functionality to the game at all should be sold in the nex."
"then i'm afraid you are being naive. they are not going to reverse course on nex they've spent too much time on it to abandon it now. so they are going to do everything they possibly can to force it through and it will be forced through no matter the cost. sad to say.but we can change the course from here. we might be able to hold off non-vanity items for a while but not forever. once we have the nex, it's inevitable. it will happen eventually. so we can come up with better solutions now or let them come up with their own. we both know how that will go.we need to establish early on some sort of guideline of what is and is not acceptable. things that add game affecting material to the game is the big concern. i'm trying to come up with things that will add options without directly impacting game-play over all. in other words we need a fallback position, a plan b.one big fear is that people will simply be able to pay real money for skill points. so i tried to find a way to make the result possible without simply creating skill points out of thin air.prepare for the worst my friends, hope for the best."
"you an 3-4000 odd others drew a line in the sand. some of us are not so restricted in our thinking, and have a little room for leeway, though i too disagree with the majority of the ops list.there are still some ~289000 players who have not voiced their opinion over this; the majority of which are still playing as usual, despite your attempts at crowd control.edit: also like to include a link to a thread i have invited the csm to take part in and review at their leisure. not even certain they will respond, given past history of months now with little to no community involvement while they push their own goals. little dig there, i know."
"you take out mt all together and you, and many other players (i.e. players who own multiple accounts), lose the ability to buy plex with isk...in case you didn't realise what you were saying **edit** i'm the same as mars theran. i don't agree with all the options in the op. but i understand that we have to start thinking positively and stop acting like spoiled children who didn't get the birthday party they were hoping for."
"a suggestion for ccp if you are looking to make money from the aur store think of these options.1) sell a complete skill point reset for real $$ equiv of $45this would mean you lose all injected skills including the books so there is a negative to doing this.2) sell a complete faction standing reset for real $$ equiv of $45this would also mean you lose all standings so any faction/npc standings bar sec status get set to 0.003) change the certificate system to have \"pilot\" quals. ie interceptor pilot, logistics pilot, battleship pilot and then have some mixed categories. ie spec ops master and so on where a number of single ship type certs are needed. then when a player unlocks this cert it unlocks a uniform in their choice of color in the nex store for a purchase price of around $3-4 then people have a reason to show off and its not expencive.4) give people a std wardrobe with 5 slots (shirts,pants,boots) of which you can mix and match as you see fit. then offer more wardrobe slots for $5 each5) give people fish tanks, bed sheets picture frames, pinball machines and even awards to hang on their cq walls6) have a larger range of clothes having 6 items at a major patch launch is a pretty big joke.7) add custom ship skins not new ships so if guys want to have their scorp look cool they can buy a $5-$10 ship skin that is then always even after the ship is destroyed every scorp you buy would be fitted with the same skin. even have multipul skins.8) add custom ship paint schemes that you could pick from a std list of color types for each skin.9) add the ablilty to buy a bigger cq for $5-$100 where as you scale up you add a bigger room or add extra rooms.these are just some ideas of things that everyone i have spoken to has been talking about.ships/ammo/implants should never be sold. a sandbox is a sandbox everything made in every is made by players (or as much as possible)these are just some ideas feel free to commentplease ensure you just add positive things to this post about what you would like to see sold and the basic price bracket.csm if other people post ideas in here please present these to ccp.aur & nex is here to stay... now lets give them items that we want at prices we want to pay. the whole name micro transactions means exactly that micro ie dollar here dollar there. not $60 for 1 item."
"to be honest i'm somewhat shocked to see this thread.someone who isn't a hater! - a nice change indeed.(just an fyi - option 1 has been argued by some players as a form of giving a player an in-game advantage, however it's no more advantageous than being able to buy a plex for isk imho)(i am not bothering to comment on the rest as i'm sure there'll be plenty of other people to do that)but hey,+1 for a thread that is positive and not a pathetic hate-mail."
"due to the recent 'leeked' document veterns of eve have had enough eve pilots do not want to be exploited so that ccp can fund other projects which wouldnt be too bad if the dust project was pc playable, no wait its all a load of rubbish dust should fund itself and ccp should scrap this microtransactions.many of my friends in eve have cancelled subscriptions to hit ccp where it hurts lets get eve back to how we all love it"
"leaked document was an internal discussion, the kind thats common in alot of company practices to see the pro's and con's of implementing what could be viable. so not actual proof that there going to introduce a game changing mt store into eve"
"lets hope your right and eve stays as we want it after all we did pay for it to be this way"
"if -only- we could trust that ccp are not going to do what is most financially beneficial to them (introduce more mts, ones that would affect gameplay more directly), but unfortunately, based on their actions and reactions up until now, that seems the most probable outcome.regardless of that, even the low amount of mt's currently available in the nex are unwelcome, to alot of people. ccp will have to accept (or accept the consequences of inaction) that to many of us, the monthly fee we pay we believe should enable us 'access' to all the games' content. if they want to charge us isk for actual 'acquisition' of these items in the game (so they're not just handed out for free, if you have a monthly sub... which would be silly) so be it... but like i said, even the tiny amount of mt's current in the game at this moment in time, are, for alot of people, considered unjustified and unwanted."
"since no one has asked here yet,can i have your stuff?"
"maybe it is a waste of time, but i'm bumping this anyway."
"yeah i like the idea of tweaking the ships so that it's their unique abilities/bonuses that set them apart. rather than being simply superior in hp and resists etc."
"i definatly support the removal of the tier system. i dont appreciate being herded into a certain hull to keep up with others. i would rather choose my own path without having to swallow a whole lot of disadvantage with it."
"this proposal is entirely open for discussion, however i will start by making my recommendation to deal with the current problems with the gallente battleship range.widely it is believed that the dominix is a useful logistics and a glorious pve drone boat. the megathron offers itself as a gunnery specialists wet dream, great platform for railgun damage and like all gallente ships, it has a decently sized drone bay for dealing with pesky jammers. these are the kinds of things i hear regularly from both rookie and veteran players alike. similarly, they all give the same attributed strengths to each of these two ships. rightfully so, the dominix has the ability to use a slew of drones depend on the situation and has a decent amount of onboard firepower. the megathron is a gun boat we all know and love for being very good at slamming people with antimatter charges.however, when it comes to the hyperion, the same cannot be said. its drone bay is not particularly amazing and has no bonuses. the bonuses of the hyperion are comparable to the megathron in terms of damage. while the hyperion does lack the tracking bonuses of the megathron, it does make up for it (relatively) by having a bonus to armor repair. however, when people describe the hyperion from their point of view, its rather sad. they describe it as an overpriced ship that isn't particularly better than any other ship at anything. considering that the ship costs just over 3 times the price of a dominix, most players will say that for missions and pve, they will use a dominix over a hyperion because its not only easier to fly in terms of skills, but it also is significantly cheaper. the same can be said for the megathron, its a ship worthy of its doubled price because with the proper gunnery skills, it can rip apart npcs and players alike.simply put, i feel the hyperion needs a re-design of its overall roles in combat. right now it is a gun boat with tank ability, i think it can keep its tank ability and be given another ability. my idea: give the hyperion the ability to use drone control units. right now the hyperion is not particularly different than the other battleship in the gallente battleship range. i think giving it an ability that is not only unique in the gallente range but also in all battleships would make it a much more useful ship.honest questions i asked myself:- why make another drone boat? the dominix fills this role pretty well.while the dominix is a great ship (i fly it regularly, i love it), it is much suited to sentry drones and some railguns. i think making the hyperion capable of using drone control units presents a new possibility for sub-capital combat ships.- whats to stop these hyperions from using say, 10 tech two sentry drones?this is a simple problem that i don't have an amazing solution to. besides the dictatorship method of just saying \"no sentry drones can be used on it,\" my idea is to make its drone bay small enough that you cant use more than 6 or 7 sentries. so for example, make the drone bay 170 or 195 m3. so it fits 6 or 7 sentry drones, but then has 20 m3 left. this means you have the choice of sacrificing your ability to use up to 10 drones to use heavy or sentry drones.- drone control links are relatively expensive when you have to buy 5 of them.the alternative idea available is to make its ability to control extra drones linked to the battleship skill. so for example, along with \"[insert drone related skill here] and 7.5% bonus to armor repair amount of armor repair systems per level.\" you could add \"can deploy 1 additional drone per level.\" or make it a role bonus: \"role bonus: ability to deploy 5 additional drones. the reason i chose drone control units was because then the pilot has to make sacrifice in order to use more drones: highs for drones.- what would the bonus to drones be on this ship besides just numbers?i actually was gonna ask you guys if it needed any and if so, what should it be?"
"mission runners have paid a dear price for being loyal customers. buying gear, creating gear, selling gear, and using mission agents for years. a few years ago t2 salvage items dropped on a regular basis while salvaging level 4 missions. then for some reason this was taken away and given exclusively to pilots who lived in low security who could salvage t2 ships with the protection of their corps giving them and their corps the exclusive access to these items thus total control over the t2 rigs market. this was a mistake. level 4 missions are dangerous. they require years of dedication to the game in training and practice. to take away a prime part of the loot scheme was just wrong. we, the mission runners of eve, the backbone of you pvp players who without us, would have to resort to mission running to make money, want the t2 salvage back in level 4 missions. and don't even think of moving level 4 agents to low sec in exchange. thank you for your consideration."
"i agree with this as well. maybe as a comprimise make the faction stuff only drop in low sec, but give level 4 missions every where the chance to get t2 items. doesnt have to be an outrageus ammount, maybe 1 out of every 400 wrecks has some, or something better you come up with. but this would stimulate people to get back to missions and less afk minning when they dont live in low sec alliances."
"excuse me, but that's simply plain wrong.proof can easily be found in the noobcorps,where ppl skill asap to b/s to farm lvl4s safely.that doesn't take years. lvl4s are way too easy.maybe you can please explain what you mean exactly,because your wording makes it look simply wrong.that's simply plain wrong too, at least in this wording.of course, mission runners are a part of the income of pvpers,but saying that they need you is wrong.see industrialists. see other pvpers who get popped.see those who marketpvp and shippvp. etc."
"ohh yeah don't underestimate those lv4's despite the predicable behavior of the npc's. predicatable reactions and ewar as well as being able to know the exact number of the enimies and location of them before you enter, they are quite dangerous. did you know they fire missiles and bullets are you? those thing's freaking hurt. i have to turn on a shield booster sometimes. ok mabey not i fly a nighthawk, but if i had a shield booster i might be tempted to turn it on to see my shield go back upt 100% from 98%. as it really hurts my feelings when someone shoots me on a serious note if you consider a lv4 mission dangerous and you have been doing this for \"years\" you really should just quit eve now. your doing something seriously wrong. and may i suggest hello kitty online it may be up your alley. i just hope it's not too much for you. and for the record this is comming from a mission runner."
"i invade lvl4s i scan down and run them in a cane...... no wait, i ran them in a cane because i'm banned from highsec now ...... and i did it faster than most others in b/s ...... and *lol* got even kudos for doing it, instead of ****ing the runners off. xd"
"csm members,please take this with you to the meeting and remind ccp they have already been caught in the mt lie. the image below shows that they (ccp) have demonstrated they will say whatever they feel they need to placate the masses. much like hilmar's leaked email---- \"we will stay the course\"."
"\"we do not have plans to\" in no way translates to \"we will never\"."
"agreed.. however, this is the same message that ccp is trying to placate the crowd with now. see their dev blog:\"however, just to prove the point of the fearless newsletter and give you a further understanding of what it is then there are no and never have been plans to sell \"gold ammo\" for aurum. in fearless people are arguing a point, which doesn't even have to be their view, they are debating an issue. this is another example of how information out of context is no information at all.\"now, here is a quote from the newsletter. note that this quote is from page 9 after the comments by the 2 devs. the title for the article is ---eve:delivering the goods:virtual sales in incarnaread the page..... it is not their to foster debate. it is a statement of fact for what ccp has planned.\"ccp is in the process of adopting a virtual salesmodel for its game products. while this model hasalways been intended for world of darkness anddust 514, you may be wondering how this willwork in eve online. specifically, how will this newstrategy unfold in incarna?\"\"not all virtual purchases willfocus on customization: some willsimply be new items, ammunition,ships, etc. that can be purchasedoutright.\"\"one other service were lookingat is selling faction standings.\"\"so we might selltiny things or batches of consumablegoods for just a few micro-plex, but we would have the optionto sell premium content andservices at a much higher pricepoint.\"\"thus, we will not and cannot focuson virtual sales only within the incarnaenvironment, nor build thatenvironment around such sales;rather, we will effect a universalstrategy of micro-sales throughoutthe eve experience.\"sure sounds like they have plans for it to me!zulu's latest blog is bs."
"here is a quote from the full version of the document. not the stripped down version that was posted in eve24, seemingly for no other reason thatn to create a fuss and generate pages views. classy establishment that one.linkage"
"thanks for linking the unedited document. i already have it saved as do much of the player base for later i told you so's when ccp lies again...that statement is in damn near every company document on the planet and is used for a general escape clause for crap-storms like this.also, it is designed to apply to the inteviews with the dev's such as ccp sound of your wallet draining and ccp john the hero.the article on page 9 clearly states what ccp's intentions for the future of mt is for eve.just like it clearly states this:ccp sreegs aka sean conover moved to iceland from theus east coast in september 2010 to become part of thecompany whose game hes played for the past 6 years.seans favourite thing to do on a weekend is sleep,though you wont catch him snoozing on the job. assenior security administrator he polices mischief makersboth within eve as well as at ccp.and this:first, we dont want to glut the virtualmarket with too many offersright out of the gate. instead, wewant to provide a steady stream ofdigestible goods and services overa long period of time, allowing customersto sample and purchase asthey get used to the new model.we want to cater to long-term customerswho will gradually acquirea taste for our wares.pretty damn clear the \"we\" means ccp as a company. no get out of jail free card here ccp. wrong game!"
"so... when you read an internal document taken out of context; they're liars and they are plotting against you.when you read multiple official statements expressly targeted at quelling your fears; they're liars and they are plotting against you.no wonder ccp is having such a bad day."
"dev alt, newly hired pr firm employee or just someone who drank way too much of the kool-aid?????the useless blogs from zulu and pann said absolutely nothing as an fyi."
"massively articlea very very good read.. this is what other gamers are hearing about this debacle on ccp's part.the article is titled-- the day eve died"
"i want to have the cq experience, when i want to.1- old ui ( ship spinning ) back2- like undock, a button , go to cq"
"/agreegive us the old ui and a disembark button to go to cq.it'll make cq seem like less of a money grab."
"there are at least 2 other threads about this, just saying.supported."
"yeah, there are more threads saying this but gonna support this as well as this definately needs to be on the things to agree with ccp. will also prolong the life of my cpg as it won't be working it so hard all the time."
"i really wanted to stay out of this, but now feel compelled to say something. take it how you will, this is just my rational (hopefully) opinion of this whole situation. i'm sure many will disagree, and be filled with outrage at my lack of understanding of the big picture. but here it is, for whatever it's worth...this current crisis is pointless. rmt's are not a new phenomenon in eve. has everyone forgotten about plex? yes those things that someone with a lot of money can buy plenty of, turn them into isk, then buy themselves a nice fleet of supercarriers, a titan, or whatever else they want. people keep raging that nex will allow people with money to unbalance the game, because they will simply buy themselves superiority. right. plex? it's been around for a while. not just as a means to play the game without paying a monthly sub, but as a way to buy whatever one wants, if they have the real life money. everyone who is complaining about this new system and what it has coming seems to have forgotten about this. it's already there, has been there for a while, and everyone seems okay with it. take it from me... i came back to the game recently after being gone for a few years. had a whopping 30 million isk in my wallet. well i wanted a new battleship, and a hulk, and a carrier, and blah blah blah. so i spent two hundred bucks on plex so i could get all my shiny new toys without grinding for the isk in game. is that fair to other players? a lot would argue that it isn't. but it's there, and no one seems to have an issue with it. so why is everyone suddenly up in arms about these new changes? i don't think it's any different.so there it is. agree, disagree, flame... it doesn't matter. it simply is what it is. i'm going back to space now. =)"
"i'd warn others to consider before posting the link if they had it; i went looking for it earlier and found links to threads that had been locked--apparently for viewing as well as posting. i'd hate for someone to incur unanticipated discipline in an effort to be helpful."
"thank you for providing a link to perhaps the major source of all the rage.i have been there and read it. it's media/journalism - if you've ever studied/practiced/learned anything about journalism, you'll know that you can't simply trust everything you read as it is often biased.media/journalism you'd think would be all about getting to the truth and letting the public know all the secrets that massive corporations and governments don't want you to know. the sad and unfortunate truth however is that the media is just as greedy as everyone else and will publish anything to get a story. and will spin it and twist it to their will.many media firms will even take payments from organisations in return for good exposure for their products.did you know that something like 90% of all media in the us is owned by one man? (don't quote me on this i'm not sure what the figure is). he controls tv, newspapers, website and more - just about everything you read, hear and see is what a group of people want you to see/read/hear as they slowly brainwash you into thinking what they want you to think.for example we're lead to believe that milk from cows or other dairy products are virtually a requirement in order to have healthy strong bones etc... the truth is, cows don't magically create calcium, they get it from grass. we get enough calcium from other foods and we don't need it from cows. the only reason we're brought up (in our conditioned society) led to believe, as it is \"common knowledge\" that milk products are important is because the dairy industry is an important industry which provides many jobs (and people's livelihoods) and the government therefore supports them and gives them plenty of support by paying doctors and health professionals to support and advertise etc. etc. i know i'm getting a off-topic, but if you can understand my meaning - the point is that you can't trust everything you read.i will admit however, that ccp doesn't seem to have done much in regards to denying accusations etc. or maybe they have and we've just been too busy raging on the forums that we've forgotten to check other areas? like ccp zulu's dev blogs?cheers"
"on the contrary i think now it's apparent why the last two new ships were called primae noctis.\"i'm not finished. before we let you leave, your ceo must present himself before this playerbase, put his head between his knees, and kiss his own ****.\""
"wow that's clever---------------------i have read something very interesting on evenews24.com and i will reference a line they use.. \"keep in mind that maybe eve news24, by posting this, is being a peon to the well planned machinations of people wanting to destroy ccp.\"i cannot provide the link to where i got this from as i've been warned that doing so may result in myself being banned from the forums or at least having this thread locked/closed.i can tell you however, that evenews24.com, the media firm whom has brought you the leaked information and the 'supposed' email from ccp ceo hilmar, that evenews24.com has openly admitted that there is no proof that the information is in fact legit; and that it could just be generated from people bent on ccp's destruction. however evenews24 does 'claim' to have substantial evidence. i'm still a bit skeptical.on another note, one of ccp zulu's recent dev blogs, discusses the leaked newsletter (not the email) and he specifically says it's just a discussion between devs and not the official views of the company. in fact, it's a discussion on a topic among the mmo dev community as a whole!i will highlight the key areas of zulu's devblog (which i highly recommend everyone reads - link is in the op) that point out and support above statements:its worth mentioning that the topic of the issue was \"greed is good?\" as a way to ask a question that would then be debated back and forth and often exaggerated purposefully to draw contrasts and make points. the result of that is now widely available on the internet.\"the opinions and views expressed in fearless are just that; opinions and views. they are not ccp policy nor are they a reliable source of ccp views as a company. the employees who submitted articles to that newsletter did exactly what they were asked to do, write about theories and opinions from an exaggerated stand.\"and then this...\"while its perfectly fine to disagree and attack ccp over policies or actions we take, we think its not cool how individuals that work here have been called out and dragged through the mud due to something they wrote in the internal company newsletter. seriously, these people were doing their jobs and do not deserve the hate and ****storm being pointed at them.\"my take on this is that the employees have been asked to take exaggerated stands, i.e. look at the situation and think of ways/ideas and have views etc. that aren't necessarily their own - in order to get a good discussion happening."
"yeah, that's a pretty obvious interpretation mattio, and i wouldn't disagree with you on points raised about journalistic ulterior motives.though you question the validity of what is -actually- known (or 'believed' to be known) about this whole ****ing debacle, i'd simply direct you to here :"
"\"i love and respect eve and its community on a level that's hard to really do justice in words.\"bet he also loves the republic and democracy..."
"you are missing 2 facts - in order of occurrence:- fact: ccp said \"vanity only\"- fact: the first \"store\" type item to be put on the table - \"plex for remaps\". a functional change.it was removed due to player attitude problems with it. for it to be brought forth at all required senior management to approve, etc.now put those in with the letter and the rest of it... what you end up with is \"we will slip them in\" - \"ignore what the users say and watch what they do\". the only way to get a message across when the ceo says they shouldn't listen and discuss is in some form of action.what you are seeing is a natural extension of \"words don't work anymore\". when that happens, all you have left is actions and that goes in 2 directions: exodus and rioting."
"i how my english i not very good, but i just had to get this of my chest...i joined the eve experience a little over one year ago, and right from the start i was very impressed with the way ccp was involved in the eve community. when i first read about the csm, i thought that it was pretty awesome that ccp gave the player base the freedom to pick a group of players who could represent the community's opinion on development of eve.as the election of the latest csm came near i started reading more about it on the eve-o forums, and i found there was a lot of negativity towards the csm. a lot of the critique had to do with only representative from major alliances had a chance of getting enough votes to getting a spot in the csm. another big issue was that the csm was looked upon as mostly a pr stunt, and that they had no real power to change anything. i didn't pay to much attention to the negative comments, and as many others looked through the list of players i could vote for, read their points of view and cast my vote. the person i voted for didn't make it into the csm.not to long after the election was over, the csm gave a talk about the csm, then new members and what the csm could do for the eve player base. after listening the the speech i felt like what had been said on the forums prior to the election was true, the csm was mainly composed of 0.0 players and all the current major problems according to them had to do with life in 0.0. at that point i didn't feel like the csm had any intention to improve on the elements of eve which i love, and i basically lost all interest in the csm and that they where doing.then the incarna release happened, and everyone was looking to ccp and the csm for answers. ccp didn't saying anything and the csm said ccp didn't tell them anything, and basically just tried to came down the situation. ccp decided not to use the advice given be the csm, prior the release of ccp zulu's first devblog, and as the ceo email was released it seemed like ccp had been keeping information hidden from the csm in regards to the mt strategy.then ccp decides to release a new dev blog stating that the want to improve on the ccp / player relationship, and they want to do meeting with csm and working solving the mt situation. and the csm seems all happy and ready to help, like everything is business as usual.seriously?... this smells like the cms is so scared to loose the free holidays and what minor influence they have by ccp, that when ccp says jump! they say how high? how can the players see the csm as anything else them a pr stunt, the csm looks like puppets ccp can bring out now they need some \"one on one\" time with the player base.it's funny how player gets banned from the game for posting leaked information on the forums and expressing their opinion, while the csm sites passively and does noting only to spring into action when ccp offers a meeting.the next time the csn defends it self by saying \"ccp didn't tell us anything\" we know it's because you lack the balls and motivation to ask the right questions, i hope you enjoy the holidays on iceland."
"i ask the nex store be shutdown until the full ambulation experience has been built out. this way people can manage their expectations after seeing the full ambulation experienced first hand. after experiencing ambulation, they can then buy things from the nex store with a proper idea of what ambulation game play is going to bring them, and how much game play time they can expect to spend in ambulation.if ccp does not and ambulation never fulfills expectations of the user base... ccp is going to have another nuclear war on their hands similar or worse then they have now.this time with tens of thousands that have each spent hundreds of dollars worth of virtual vanity items off the nex store in good faith that ambulation is both appealing and worthwhile to them."
"oh shut up.. i understand you're all very passionate about eve and don't want it to change (in a bad way). i'm the same. but they're just vanity items.. no harm done (yet).so... until ccp gives us items that enhance characters or give players an in-game advantage you have nothing to complain about.by all means have fear and give ccp plenty of warning. and demand that they make a promise to keep it vanity/cosmetic only! but this **** has gone on for long enough.get over it.threatening to unsub if they bring out the bad stuff (as mentioned above) or unsubbing (like some people already have) is enough!you've all made your point already and i don't think ccp will forget it!**edit** that said, i also believe they might actually start listening to csm now and start fixing things rather than just adding shiny/useless things."
"have you bought anything from the store or plan to?copy paste response similar to the one above:"
"no.. i haven't bought anything. ..should i? are you accusing me of being a liar or someone who secretly wants there to be faction ammo etc? wtf.. are you an idiot?no! absolutely not! did you even read my post? i clearly state that i don't want stuff like noble ammo etc. if ccp introduces stuff like +9 implants and noble ammo, and any other stuff you people can think of, then i too will be quitting eve.. all i've said in my posts is that this ****storm has gone on for long enough and we should start trying to work together, peacefully, and come up with solutions, and that there is nothing wrong with vanity items..."
"csm should push for a ingame survey a vote on the splash screen so that all players can have there say and not just the people who visit the forms . this should go ahead before the csm go to iceland next week."
"supporting my own topic"
"so long as there's an option where i can say \"i don't have a problem with vanity** items as long as we never see items that give character enhancement or player advantage (other than plex for isk which already exists and works well)\"**just to clarify vanity items are just fashion accessories that no one is being forced to buy and in no way affect the game we love.. i.e. there is nothing wrong with them unless eve does in fact break their promise and add non-vanity items to nex store.cheers**edit** i'm pretty sure ccp won't be backing down on getting rid of the vanity items and the nex store as many players have already made purchases from it - they're not going to drop it for a bunch of player who're honestly just a little bit unreasonable :)(we all love this game and have immense passion for it and don't want it to be destroyed by micro-transaction. vanity micro-transactions won't destroy eve.it is possible that they might lead to vanity items as we all fear. but we've all made our point and i seriously doubt that ccp will forget this ****-storm.let us all try to move in a different direction ourselves as the constant **** we've been giving ccp over the last few days has been more than enough i'm sure and lets start working on solutions to problems together.i'm sure (or at least i hope) that ccp will start listening to it's player base now (they've said it on the forums just in the last 48hours) and perhaps they'll start fixing all the bugs and other problems that we've been asking to have fixed over the last couple of years.thank you for readingpeace"
"i've recommended in game survey's before, and found the idea met with general derision and generally an attitude that it was immersion breaking. csm and their supporters in particular stood out against this, as they believed it was circumventing their positions. now we don't here from them at all, and they've clearly stated that they won't be paying attention to these forums.relatively good idea though, provided every question was multiple choice, and the option to give no answer was available as 'none of the above'."
"i'm about to write the blatant obvious, but you are my voice and i want my opinion heard at your upcoming emergency meeting with ccp.if play 2 win is introduced i will biomass all of my pilots and never look back. this includes modules, ammo, ships, standings, ship fittings (not so much) and pretty much anything which can break the economy (which is almost everything except vanity only items). i still haven't seen if these vanity items are destructible or not but they should be for the same reason plex are (i.e when you die you lose your clothes).i'm sure the majority of the player base will agree with my above points.please csm. be my voice, make me heard"
"confrimign agreed.also, this is a chance. a chance to make the main issues heard as many see them. stop introducing new shiny that requires fixing all the time. fix the core current broken stuff first then make it shinyi typically dont agree with anything mittani says, personal issues aside, i truely beleive that both he and the csm in general have been aroudn long enough to understand the key issues, and the csm meeting notes and issues list is one we all recognise too.i have faith they will represent. i am uncertain as to whether anything they say will be taken on board by ccp as usual.help us obi-wan-mittani(replace with any other csm you like / dislike), you're our only hope."
"i understand you're all very passionate about eve and don't want it to change (in a bad way). i'm the same. but they're just vanity items.. no harm done (yet).so... until ccp gives us items that enhance characters or give players an in-game advantage you have nothing to complain about.by all means have fear and give ccp plenty of warning. and demand that they make a promise to keep it vanity/cosmetic only! but this **** has gone on for long enough.get over it.threatening to unsub if they bring out the bad stuff (as mentioned above) or unsubbing (like some people already have) is enough!(that said, i also believe they might actually start listening to csm now and start fixing things rather than just adding shiny/useless things.)you've all made your point already and i don't think ccp will forget it."
"after we get the new monocle emoticon for monocle owners, i want the option to use two monocles for both of my eyes.this is really urgent and needs to be fixed right away."
"approve"
"take that monocle of yours and stick it up your a*s.hope they delete them soon.definitly not supported"
"my monocle got a build in doomsday"
"there's a lot of heat about the noble store at the moment but a lot of people have issues with the mandatory nature of the captain's quarters.the captain's quarters should be fully optional because it doesn't have anything to do with the core gameplay of eve : flying spaceships.i can't grasp that something that's a sidegrade to a game taxes my computer so much while the core game is easy on my computer. one of the strong points of eve is that it runs on low-end hardware. and i fully understand that you can't keep supporting old hardware (cough shaders 2.0).but what the captains quarters ask is top of the line currentday hardware."
"i agree completely. most players have chosen to turn off cq, not just because of the hardware issue but because it has nothing to do with the game. its like buying an iphone and apple not letting you change the background picture which is displaying information competely irrelevant to the phone, your life or anything that can possibly affect you and you cant turn it off.this game is about the ships not the avatar. in most other games, the avatar how players appear to other players, which is what people customize. in eve, the avatar is just the link to your ship. i think ccp failed here. poeple care about their ships, not the damn picture in the top left corner. doing an expansion that would customize the ships futher would have been a far better endeavour.ccp needs to understand that most of us 1. do not want to look at the cq or have anything to do with it as its extremely impractical, very user unfriendly, awkward to access, and it serves no particular purpose and most of us do not care what our avatar is doing. we care about what our bs is doing.2. do not have the money to buy a new videocard whenever ccp decides we should have a new one3. do not want to lower our graphics and sacrifice the rest of the game graphics because we cannot/will not buy a new video card.4. think that a vastly improved ship hangar would have been infinitely better.the pilots in eve are not the people who play \"second life\". 8 years of the eve business model and 8 years of players are in complete dissagreement with what you have done. may as well ask boeing start building suv's and then ask its airline customers to buy them...so yeah...i agreew ith sjugar."
"not supporting this how it is worded as there are better proposals out there other than being able to select off or on. namely, to dock as per pre-incarna into ship spinning hangar view and having a disembark button for those that want to get out of their space ship. gives people both options without flicking a radio button in settings, is more immersion friendly as well."
"it's not a bad idea for cq and later on station walking and socialising... i like it and for all the hard work that has been done so far to bring it to life you can't just throw it to the junk!but!1) graphics & display > load station enviroment (to off): show the old ui and ship in the station floating or something nice (not a picture showing a door) that eats little from the system.2) improve it's performance! overheated and overloaded gpus is not a successful performance and your creation will soon become a no choice for every player. especially all those who have 2-3+ accounts in the same pc.3) leave ship - choice (?!!)for starters..."
"i wont use the term micro-transactions as the current implementation is anything but micro. i should also point out that when i say rmt, i am not referring to real money trading, which usually refers the act of third parties selling assets earned in game for money.eve has had rmt for a long time. ever since the introduction of plex. it allows players who dont have much spare time in their real lives to purchase enough in game assets to allow them to experience the game in the manner they wish. e.g. the pilot who just wants to pvp all day can support his expensive ship loss habit with plex. the flip side of this (and the genius to the system if you ask me) is that it also rewards the player who is able to invest more time in the game to support their gameplay without having to spend any real money to do so. e.g. the industrialist who manufactures and sells the ships for the pvp pilot in the previous example to go get blown up in.so what we have is a situation where anything that can be bought for isk can also be indirectly bought with real money.introduced with incarna was the noble exchange, a new in game store that allows players to buy items with eves newest currency aurum. aurum was introduced to allow plexs to be broken down in to more manageable chunks. players can also use isk to purchase a plex and beak it down in to aurum to purchase items from the noble exchange.so now what we have is a situation where anything that can be bought with real money can also be bought with isk. this is now a two way street.so for rmt to be successful in eve (by successful i mean profitable for ccp without destroying the game, which in turn is also profitable for ccp), all items must meet two criteria.1. items available for through rmt must also be available to purchase with isk. no advantage should be available in game that can only be gained with real money. as long as rmt items continue to be added to the noble exchange and no where else, they will meet this requirement.2. items available for aurum must not compete with items available on the eve market. any item offered for aurem that offers an advantage over similar items offered on the regular market would destabilize the economy. player sellers should not have to compete with ccp over player buyers isk.currently all rmt items in game meet these two criteria. so how would some of the suggestions being thrown around in the greed is good? issue of fearless (ccps internal newsletter) effect the marketships for aurum - the construction of ships is a big part of the eve economy, clearly offering ships for aurum would by bypass a large portion of the game and destabilize the economy. this does not meet requirements.custom aesthetic hulls for aurum - (trade in a ship from your hanger plus some additional aurum, get a prettier but functionally identical ship back). this is something that is not available on the player market and as long as they offer no competitive advantage over non-customized hulls, they meet the requirements.faction standing - this is currently not available for purchase either on the market or on the noble exchange, if it were to be introduced on one or the other it would not be an rmt issues as it could still be purchased with isk. this now becomes a general gameplay issues and has nothing to do with rmt.if someone can come up with a rmt concept that would meet those requirements but still be game breaking, please let me know."
"what i said for a topic i guess.some of these topics i want to reply to, some i really don't, but why don't sent these things with a vote button in an evemail, if you want to have a reply on your topics at least. better have a time out on it, so that after the voting period has passed, my inbox is cleaned again. hey now, almost sounds like a workable email account, doesn't it. greetz."
"support.perhaps the saddest part about all this is how delusional ccp is. i, for example, can afford to dump money into this kind of thing, but i'm not going to. why? it's idiotic and stupid. it gets worse when ccp is clearly going to be sucked down the slippery slope of selling in-game non-vanity items. if it's just a monocle? i don't care. all having one does is show me who to shoot and laugh at. but we all know it isn't going to stay that way.ccp neglected to fix long-standing bugs and gameplay issues, and instead spent thousands of hours and countless resources to produce incarna. is it cool? well, it looks cool, but after about 5 minutes i turned it all off. part of that is i could probably boil an egg on my laptop after walking around the cq for three minutes.i also find it extraordinarily difficult to become excited by something like dust 514 when ccp has already stated that it will require special hardware to use. (by \"special hardware\" i mean buying a ps3 just to play dust.) make hybrids work. get rid of the dumb bump mechanic which is nothing but a pain in the ass, and utterly worthless. and so on.instead of blowing all these resources on incarna and ****ing everybody off in the process, did you even consider doing something like adding features to...oh, the internet spaceships bit? for less effort you could have implemented a better control system, maybe firing arcs, etc., making it a little more than getting a good fit and pushing f1. (and before someone says that it would kill the servers, most of that can be offloaded to the client.)sad."
"the point is to eliminate the speculation decisively. speculation is what is doing damage right now, people have every right to think the worst, and yet also seem to be expected to think the best... for no apparent reason. and still some others don't even know what to think.not everyone likes to be a lemming following an mmo off the development cliff. many of us do want to know what is going on and why."
"yuppers"
"1.0"
"so, you **** yourself before you go to the bathroom?surely features should be realised when they're ready, not an arbitrary date. testing on sisi showed that these issues would occur and ccp pushed on with it anyway."
"\"ccp could have made it optional and given us the option of keeping the old hanger view and added a disembark ship option to the ui but oh no to do that would have meant we werent being forced to look the vanity display case that marketing insisted must be front and centre if were to even think about buying these ridiculously overpriced items from the noble store.\"i agree with you 100% manfred , but i dont think its meant for us to have that yet.but if you rich , why not. i do like the option, but you dont need to participate, if you want to see your ship , just face the hanger bay when you dock . otherwise you can do any of the things you usually do from menu. they are trying to increase the game play . keep people interested in eve . missions get old and some of us dont like to participate in other player ober fights"
"support"
"ccp is turning eve into a social/casual game.this is illustrated with cq & aurum to get the goods(ships, fit & skills) instead of a functional dock & training time.i want new ships, rebuild models, fixed blasters/railguns, fixed poses . . .not a new way to throw my money into virtual trousers."
"to ccp from the community:fvck you too, *****."
"if the csm goes to iceland, which in of itself is a joke no trip is required, prior to ccp unequivocally stating that there will be no selling of non-vanity items then the csm itself is a joke.but i'm sure you will be going so enjoy the trip paid for by our subs and monocles and \"pink\" ammo."
"hay i didn't buy no stinking \"pink\" ammo, i specifically bought the \"omg ponies\" ammo, it may be pink but dammit its the t2 varient of it. it hits with a few more ponies behind it."
"the csm should refuse to go. they are going there for nothing more than propaganda purposes. they will look foolish.and it's a way for ccp to try to buy a couple weeks and calm down the protests. won't work, i'm afraid. my subs are still canceled. if ccp announces the removal of rmt from eve, i'll be back but nothing short of that is acceptable."
"well, consider the fact that the csm is the voice of the community. if the csm doesn't go, then there will be people who will criticize them for not doing what they were voted in to do. so, if they go people will criticize them for being tools (like those same people every year). if they don't go, people will wonder why they were even voted into those positions in the first place.so yeah, it's a lose-lose situation for the csm."
"well if they go they can party together in island, if they don't they can party at home so, win-win imho."
"csm must go (if available for).if ccp show no will to sovle this issue and give no words for fixing what's currently broken (a huge par of the game), then they should resign as a show of protest."
"if the csm gets player input for points to raise and sticks to them, if they can get a removal of the nda or broadcast the meeting live i'll eat humble pie.use tippia as a start for points to raise and add what ever else players ask for.however ccp tries to spin fearless it should not have taken place, evidence like the fittings limit and sp reinburstment tool and mt as a whole, leads me to think they have futher plans for it.personally i think its a pr stunt, i also dont think csm represents us, they just futher there own alliance or want a free trip/chance to brown nose for a job. prove me wrong.start a thread for input already, get it in one place, get organized, spam it on mega threads, get votes going for hot/sore points"
"it's a way to make fleet missions a little more interesting."
"paintjob for ships (golden retriever, hahahahahhahaha)paintjob for outposts/player owned structuresengine trails (unless they really get added generally some day, of course ... hahahhaha)advertisements on tv in the quartersadvertising on concord billboardsstrippers in quarters (yes, i'm serious ... huge business opportunity !)clothes and accessoirescharacter recustomization (sounds not so good, but whatever)change of bloodline (in line with the above)well, that's what i have thought of.any serious ideas to add ?"
"i had a thread asking for ideas in general discussion."
"csm is not us , csm rapresents just some of us, which is fine still...please csm members, given u'r gifted with the privilege of speaking directly with ccp.can you explain us what are you goin to ask them? on which points u won't bend yr knees to ccp ?given looks like the only way ccp is gonna deal with us is via you (csm) i'd like to be sure u'r goin to represent our (mine aswell of course) interests.you might aswell add a list of what csm should say/ask to ccp"
"i already posted what the general protestors and populace wants + some on going issues that i thought of off the top of my head."
"is there a way you can record either by video or tape the meeting? i know you will have to edit certain parts out. but to help calm the situation fastest this would be the most efficent route. if you cant, you cant, just a suggestion. also, more amarr ships like the maller!amarr forever!"
"hit this sub-forum expecting this thread to be here and started by a csm member. will be leaving very disappointed.i would like them to keep asking why, 12 months ago, ccp shadow said there were no plans whatsoever to introduce microtransactions in to eve. this had to be on their radar back then. you can't just pull this out of nowhere. issues with the game are on their to-do list for years before seeing attention (if at all) and we're expected to believe they suddenly had an idea about microtransactions last month, or something?"
"companies that don't fear their customers, don't have any. ccp has fallen from ineptitude and indifference to entitlement and arrogance."
"the statement we require from ccp:1. aur will never be used to sell items that in any way could even mildly be viewed as \"pay to win\".2. if, during debate on legit uses of aur, the topic of plex comes up as a justification for selling a certain item, the item in question will automatically not be eligible for sale with aur. plex, in its current form, already pushes the absolute limit, and needs no company.example: saying \"plex allows players to accomplish xyz, therefore, it is ok for players to use aur to do xyz...\" means that you automatically lose the debate.thinking the existance of plex justifies a certain use of aur means you are already going to far."
"i like being able to control my ui. please allow us the option of removing the aur display in our wallets.*the other proposal has multiple issues in it so this one is purely for the aur thing.*"
"edit: someone beat me to it"
"not supportedcalling for the resignation of any ccp employee is irresponsible.besides, ccp soundwave is a good guy and a funny as hell guy."
"i dont know how far kris's actual standpoint on mt's are above and beyond vanity and quality of life items......if what the newsletter says is accurate i wouldnt put it past him to be the one pushing for performance based mt's in eve.and if thats the case i want him out of ccps offices, but i dont want to jump to conclusions at such a skeptical time in eve onlines life."
"the reasonable people seem to be congregating this thread. all 10 of us."
"thou im against about 60% of this expantion, he should not be sacked, who in there own way, hasnt made a balls up of something, and moreso from that leaked pdf, which was a hypothetic argument on the pros and cons of aur. anybody of the other guys at ccp would be in the same place hahd ccp soundwave not do it. so he's became somthing of a fall guy."
"to the op: no...and stop wasting forum space with terrible troll threads like this one."
"stop use alts to troll the treads ccp!"
"no we all should have a second chance and ccp kris should also have a second chance.we all make mistakes be it in the real world or in a virtual world. we learn for the mistakes we make and i think ccp have learned the hard way, there are issues : pay !! 30% less was quoted : mt /vanity / game changing items: real clear and openness where they want eve to goso no ccp kris should have a second chance as we all make mistakes, say and/or type things we really do not think about first.i spent 5yrs listening to ccp playing eve and learning, things i do miss are ouver in local and likes, they used to answer questions in game etc etc , but not any more.i also understand walking inside station is not easy task to build from scratch, we have to give ccp props we have waited for nearly 5yrs, they could have made us wait longer. where ccp came undone was patching/releases. two a year+ is no good, please revert back to one expansion a year, this gives teams more time to give players what we require, also allows coders, designers and everyone in ccp to not be so pressed. pay : this needs sorting so stop trying to do 10 things at once, you and your personel are humans not computers.so kris deserves a second chance in life like us all !!"
"a game is entertainment not real life if you dont like what you see youre free to go stop acting like 8 year old"
"support - although i have moved on to flying lokis and proteus (refusing to fly tengus 'cause it feels like cheating), it would be nice to have at least one possible configuration for this ship that is worth its isk.since i consider the drone and laser subsystems to be broken beyond repair, at least add the missing bonus (compared to the tengu) to the ham subsys, so the ship becomes a bit more than a 500 mill ham draek with a little more buffer and smaller sig..."
"if this were to go, i'd say warp to 5 instead of zero, only worked on certain ships, and only for autopilot, not for manual warping.this still gives time for ships to get `ganked` (even though i hate being on the receiving end of that, but its a way of life in eve for others)it'd improve time going through gates in that if you're going to get ganked, you're going to get scrammed and/or webbed. the 5km buffer would still allow for it. wt5 would give an assist to the player.however, for me? i'm not much of an afk'r, and if i do, its usually when i'm in a shuttle going a really long distance via high-sec."
"when you get your heads straight i'd like to recommend clothes being sold in the lp store. for example the serpentis would sell tight leathery clothes while the sansha's nation would sell robe like clothes etc etc.or just make a blueprint and add some planetary commodities you need to harvest to create clothes."
"they wont even consider that. it would flood the market and we will be seeing the cloths jettson all ove the systems lol"
"yes! i vote yes absolutely.these specifics of how to do it in the op may or may not be how it'll happen, but it's definitely something i think ccp should consider.and all you guys should realise:more money for ccp means bigger budgets for them to spend on eve, their customer service divisions and other projects. or at least they'll be a little bit happier.you guys must all understand that games companies often struggle (or are limited) with money (budgets) when it comes to innovation and reaching for the sky (so to speak).and to all you pricks who say ccp is greedy? you're either very ignorant or haven't given it much thought - i know from personal experience working in the games industry that times are tough for many games companies (i don't know ccp's financial situation however) but i know as a game developer your pay is often quite poor considering the amount of hours and stress involved. most game developers i've ever spoken with agree that you can forget about getting a mortgage etc. coz it's simply too risky.it's your passion for games that keeps you going however"
"no. i think having 21st century corporations advertising in a game like eve is extremely tacky, and immersion breaking. i think there are services involving advertising that could work for eve, like allowing corporations to advertise on captain's quarters for a fee, but i think it should be kept to the confines of the eve universe."
"doesn't bother me either way tbh, but.... no, it really means more money to spend on dust and wod development."
"thereby expanding the eve universe and allowing ccp to reach their goal of being able to provide us with the 'ultimate sci-fi experience'though it would be nice, as mentioned by many people before me, if they could re-invest the money into resources/staff for fixing eve's current (and long-standing) game-play and ui issues."
"interesting idea, but the eve player base is quite small as an advertising audience. i think the revenue ccp earns from it wouldn't be much."
"interesting subject here. when i first step foot in my so called hanger i noticed a big hd tv screen in it. why dont they incorperate some type of rental system so we can watch movies and play mini games in it . that revenue alone could fund whats to come on the other side of the hanger . i want to explore the statiion , drink a cocktail while i station spin advertiseing should be kept to in game . people will get too confused otherwise... this is just a game and the whole world plays it"
"i want to use the word partner, but the relationship is more that just simple business. players have invested quite a bit into the game, as have developers from ccp. the partnership/marriage has had its ups and downs, but this new phase feels like the last series of blow-ups before the final divorce. the playerbase feels like the ccp partner has decided to take all the resources from the marriage and run off with them. the ccp partner apparently feels that the player partner is a completely unreasonable partner and thus, the player will no longer see the prior rate of participation without giving much more than he/she was giving previously. i'm not sure if this parable has much life to it, so i'll leave it here for the csm and readers to see if they feel it's usable."
"divorce ccp now and shes still gunna take half yourstuff as well as all the cash you spent on her anyways"
"ccp employees invest in the game is a no win situtation if i read what you type correctly. that war is amongst them alone. all you can hope for is that they are fair and play by the rules"
"it'd be nice to be able to display this on two separate screens to cross reference your sales to your orders.support for this does not imply any prioritization of this.(i.e. i don't know if this should be a high priority upgrade, but i'd like to see people acknowledge it as an upgrade.)"
"harveybirdman esquire is the player responsible for the 'uncalled for', highly offensive, and dis-respectful post about ccp staff member kristoffer touborg.anddespite constant replies from fellow eve players telling him that he is out of line.despite ccp zulu being forced to write a devblog in relation to the above said post.despite the fact that he is well and truly wrong about kristoffer, who was only doing his job - which was being asked to discuss a highly debated topic within the mmo industry - and was really just speaking from an exaggerated hypothetic viewpoint for the pros and cons of micro-transactions.despite his @$$-hatteryhe is yet to apologise....he made an entire thread which singled out one person (kristoffer touborg), and virtually \"dragged him through the mud\" (words of ccp zulu); i therefore see it only fair if an entire thread be made about him, harveybirdman esquire, and that he make an official apology...and the 3 people who agreed with harvey, if you guys wish to apologise, you're more than welcome to reply with support if you think harveybirdsman esquire should apologise for his actions."
"are you afraid that harvey is going to pod you if you post on this thread?post! harveybirdman esquire is probably just an alt anyway... and perhaps he doesn't even care? at least you can show 'some' support for a man who's been unfairly treated"
"swynet, i can tell you're one on the many idiots who need things written in crayon for them, so here goes. the \"logoffski\" trick, whatever you want to call it, goes for ships as well as pods. and i was killing war targets in high sec, not killing pods \"just for fun\". read the post next time, not going to spell everything out for people like you. i'd really enjoy bumping into you in low sec and see who's licking up whose tears.and for people who say that mechanic is there to \"protect\" you... i simply don't buy that. i've been playing eve for years and have never once magically lost my connection in the middle of a fight. and if it did happen, that still shouldn't give you a \"get out of jail free\" card. maybe a power failure or whatnot isn't your fault, but it's not my fault either. allowing players such an easy way to escape from a losing battle goes against everything eve claims to be. if you're worried about power failures and losing your internet connection, stay out of low sec.if you are not being aggressed and log off/lose the connection/asteroid hits the earth and destroys the internet/ect... then fine, your ship/pod should warp out. if you're aggressing/being aggressed, then your ship/pod should go nowhere for five if you log/lose power/ect... it's used as an exploit far more than it's used as a \"safety measure\" or whatever. needs to be changed, that simple."
"you are an idiot. lots of people have issues with connectivity to eve as the servers are in london, and i hope your dumbass does get knocked off line one day and you can experience just what you are asking. i hope your dumbass starts to attack someone, and then, all of a sudden, you get knocked off, and the person you are attacking turns the table on your dumb ass and you finally log back in to find yourself in a station"
"no"
"no"
"i was thinking of adding some kind of hover lift inside the station hangar so that the user can get closer to the ship than before, just like the ones you see in clear skies 3. (i admit, i almost came to tears when i first saw the reborn clear skies. what a glorious scene.) that will give both a sense of scale and a unique perspective from the traditional \"camera drone\" view, not to mention making incarna actually more useful as the user will use the avatar as a frame of reference.since i thought that was going to be quite a lot of work (enhancing texture/modeling quality for all ships, new modes of movement to handle z-axis movement, etc), so i opted for this instead.edit: forgot the support."
"i still don't understand why captain's quarters are a station feature... i may be mistaken but aren't the ships supposed to have them?depodding in your ship also makes more sense."
"there are indications that ccp would like to break free of the vanity items model for microtransactions prevalent in the mmo industry. ccp prides itself on being a trendsetter.i think everyone agrees that microtransactions must fit seamlessly into the eve economy, that they must not compete with the eve market.how to do this?implement aurum in a manner similar to loyalty points. i feel this would be a perfectly acceptable solution, that serves both the purposes of ccp and the playerbase.how would it work? like loyalty point purchases, you trade some amount of in-game item, plus loyalty points and receive a slightly better item in return. in the case of the microtransaction, replace loyalty points with aurum.vote yes if you support this extension of microtransactions in the game.vote no if you do support this extension of microtransactions."
"no.no.no.no.no.no.no.no.edited for spam. zymurgist"
"if the items available through micro-transactions do eventually become character enhancing or stuff like noble ammo etc. (which will be a bad bad day), this would somewhat limit the abuse of the system (abuse by taking advantage of the size of a player's own personal real-life wallet) (one would thing at first) as they would still have to do some in-game grinding. i.e. players simply don't use their credit card to get an advantage over other players.however, the fact that we have plex's and a player can simply buy isk with their credit card and then use that isk combined with their credit card again to get aurum... it wouldn't work.perhaps i've mis-understood something? i'm not sure.but either way, i don't like the idea of having any items available by micro-transactions other than vanity items and plexs for isk.in the case that ccp sticks with vanity/cosmetic items (and plexes for isk) only; this proposal would perhaps make said vanity items like the infamous monocle more affordable?i imagine people like the fact that having a monocle as somewhat a rarity is good thing. kind of like titans when there were only a few on the server.. (and now everyone has them )"
"first problem, what hapens when you ahve 12,000 people who all have this \"premium service\" and decide to file petitions within a 24-hour period, thats several hundred people minimum per hour, so unless your also asking ccp to divert its eve-funding to some form of expanded customer service division, im afraid this idea is ridiculous realistically."
"not supported, there shouldn't be positionable issues to begin with on the scale we are seeing now. fix the code and less petitions will be needed."
"yes"
"and obligatory gold ship and \"i win\" button for everyone."
"i'm just going to assume that you haven't read anything about the ordeal. microsoft won't allow dust on the xbox because ccp wants control over the servers and updates, to put it simply. as for the pc, well they already have a pc game and they want to make a console one. ccp originally were going to put it on both platforms but microsoft didn't allow them too. i hope i clarified things for you."
"the inability of the csm to appreciate the current rage shows they are just as out of touch with the wider player base as the ccp management."
"failhad you been keeping up at all with forum postings, blogs and etc (i.e. many multiple forms of communication), it would be abundantly clear that the csm is engaged on these issues, and in a way that thoroughly indicates they agree with and publicly espouse the viewpoint of the community which elected them. that ccp are not listening - or have not been, previously; we shall have to see what may come, as supposedly will be - cannot and should not be laid at their doorstep."
"incarna is going to happen whether we like it or not, since the carbon framework is going to be used for wod anyway. we might as well be able to take advantage of it. frankly, i've been looking forward to ambulation for a long time and think the added immersion is nice.this isn't up for discussion in this topic.but i'm sure there are things that we can suggest to make improvements to incarna as it stands.here are my thoughts:1. the use of the old ui in the new environment is clunky. i would be happy with something new, designed from the ground up for when you aren't in your spaceship. we have big, pretty screens with very limited functionality. i was really disappointed when i clicked on the pi screen and just got my s&i window open to the planets tab. give us a cooler planet management ui that we can use in station.2. hangar view. lorewise, it doesn't make sense to decant every time we dock. it's supposed to be uncomfortable, and it's kind of odd to plop out naked right at the edge of the hangar itself for anyone to see. it would make sense to have a distinction between docking and disembarking. this way we can still spin ships and stuff, too.3. this is sort of related to the first two. we lost a little functionality when we got incarna. it's more of a pain to manage cargo and items between ships and stuff since we can't just double click and get into our ship's cargo. putting the hangar view back would fix that problem since you could just not disembark if you're doing a lot of shippy things like that. people are never going to be happy if functionality is removed from the old way and put in so you have to use incarna. however, i don't think people would complain if new functionality was added so that people would want to use incarna. see coming up with a nifty new window, that actually uses the screen instead of a popup, to manage and look at our planets. come up with a new corp management ui, and have that be used on that screen. give us more control over the big screen and let us do cool stuff with it.4. obviously we want to see the other racial cqs and to be able to do some customization. i feel a bit like i live in a captain's closet right now.i'm sure that ccp is working on optimization and stuff so incarna doesn't melt any more genitals.any other thoughts?"
"hello i wanted to make a thread for all the issues for csm to bring up after the incarna ****storm.anyways lets get started1 captains quarters - simply put, we want old hanger view with an option go to cq, we dont care how or why but cq is laggy on most machines, overheats others and just isnt as functional as old hanger2 mt future - the only thing in the eve world u should be able to buy is ship skins. no weapons, modules, or really anything that would change how the game is played. vanity items are the only thing that can be sold. in the wis world u can sell objects for rooms, clothes, other avatar accessories.3 mt price- look, the monocle is cool and all but the first thing u release is never the most expensive item, we need lots more cheap items for the nex store.4 separate graphic settings for cq and eve in space, cq takes much more processing then eve even on high detail.---------the next are issues pre incarna **** storm that are still broken-------missions- jamming in missions has become intolerable, it can take over an hour to do a gurista mission simply because your jammed all day. reduce all chances of npc jams be 50% at least as well as reducing number of jamming ships in all missions.content and future- lately many have questioned ccp's future plan for eve. address this pleasehybrid weapons are broken ( personally not sure of this but i see threadnaughts)super capitals online =/= eve onlinefaction warfare could use improvements --more to come if needed--"
"i'm under the impression that this summit is to focus basically entirely on microtransactions.basically, there are two particular circumstances where microtransaction stuff is unacceptable.1. where it provides someone an advantage over another player in any way ingame. this includes things like faction standing, extra skillpoints, but not things like monocles and ship skins.2. where it competes with players in any way in the economy. this includes things like skinned ships without input of something manufactured by a player."
"true to the nature of the sandbox, anything purchased in the nex that is related to either your character or ship should be destructable i.e. when podded you lose your clothes, when fancy painted ship is destroyed you don't get to apply the paint again to another ship."
"seperate settings for cq/ space is badly needed.test server forums needs dev feed back of some kind dayly. expand the bug hunter program to atleast give a summery of there know issues and a ccp response to them weekly.each team should be required to start a thread under there name in the forums with what they are working on and keep it updated and answer questions post there in.status of the last csm minutes when will they be out?status of the q and a thread are we going to get more answers this week or do we have to wait another week?a clear seperation and clear communication about the pay to win stratagie that will be present in wod and dust and how to keep eve vanity item only.pay to win items should not be usable in dust/ eve combat or if they are they should be easily targetable from orbit. dust on dust combat for planets can use the pay to win but have to take the chance that eve players will form up battle fleets just to kill pay to win items."
"well said, #1 & #2 especially.we want a commitment from ccp executive management that aur will not interfere in anyway with our player driven market and that vanity items remain just that, no effect on game play. nothing that can be used in game should have a means of procurement without including player involvement, i.e. ships, ammo, control towers, faction standing!, etc. 1. fix cq so that those of us who mulitbox can continue to run multiple accounts without having to drop and extra $500 on a new gpu or run an sli. i've run 4 accounts on my rig for the last 4 years. this is not possible anymore. give me the option to undock from my ship and venture into cq when i want. even if you fix #2, you're still gonna lose subs from those that can no longer multibox as they used to. i'm not gonna keep 4 accounts if i can barely run 2.2. although i absolutely hate mt,i can live with solely cosmetic/vanity items. that means absolutely nothing that affects game play. as a side note, you may find players more willing to accept mt if you offered some type of interesting accessories; i.e. i would love to see some of my alts running around in a bikini or nice underwears."
"this. i don't mind if ship spinning can't come back, and i'm sure ccp would consider very carefully before they created any mt items, but being forced to leave your pod whenever you dock is both ludicrous fluff-wise and needlessly inconvenient to multiboxers"
"i understand the desire for lots of open communication, but writing up daily reports like that does take time. i would not approve of bug-fixing time being taken up by report-writing time. but occasional communication would be nice."
"i fully agree with the op."
"* clarify ccp's definition of \"gold ammo\" - are services like \"plex for remap\" covered?* last year's csm summit after the \"plex for remap\" debacle did result in an agreement not to introduce non-vanity mts - apparently this didn't stop ccp from considering the introduction of non-vanity mts in eve nevertheless.what can ccp tell us to make us believe them that this time is different?* the general attitude displayed towards the customers in both the fearless issue and hilmar's email was pretty dismaying.how does ccp feel about this after taking a step back to reflect about their attitude? any plans to adjust the corporate culture in that regard?* how does ccp feel about its ability to attract and retain top talent? the glassdoor reviews are of course anecdotal and suffer from selection bias but the results of the employee satisfaction survey in the leaked fearless seem to confirm the broad story and give raise to concern.* some players only play eve for a few months, others for years. the latter ask for a degree of planning dependability that is untypically high for consumers.what can ccp do to give them assurances without losing the ability to react dynamically to the market?(i assume that ccp will agree that vets can be extremely uncomfortable but are essential for the meta-game and the success of eve) * can the csm be included in the internal company-wide messaging of ccp - i.e. can stuff like company-wide newsletters, bulletins, emails, ... be forwarded to the csm?"
"full removal of mt store and bringing back ship spinning.fixing hybrids/gallente as bonus."
"these two are the most important to me. regarding the first one, it looks like some of the csm think that a simple option not to load station environment will do the trick. they couldn't be more wrong. old ship spinning hanger is non-negotiable. see my sig for reasons why."
"i second all of what this gentleman said and remind ccp that your profits and loss' are determined by the players, not your experts who think they know what we want. the intolerance and deaf ear that you've shown to us in the past is culminating into the backlash you're seeing in and out of game. no company has ever survived screwing it's own customers (with the exception of possibly microsoft) and you'd be well advised to note that you're driving players off.the best advertisement you have is word of mouth of satisfied players. as the pio of my corporation i'm allowed to speak for our players. there is not one, without exception, player in our corporation who is happy with what ccp is doing. you have overburdened our computers, nerf'd the ship we worked hard to get, and turned a total deaf ear to our cries. as you keep going this route we will leave. i have already seen players turn friends off from playing eve and a couple players have already dropped accounts. when you decide to stop me from shutting off my captains quarters i give up. you will loose another four accounts because i can no longer play as i wish. please remember my words in the future when you need to apply for unemployment. you have a good thing here, please stop killing it."
"please print this out, make ccp read it all out loud, and address every point of it."
"please, for the love of god, don't even forget for a second that they're the ones that owe you, not the other way around. don't go in there thinking you have to work or make compromises. you don't. right now, you (and the playerbase) owe ccp nothing. please, please remember that.don't be turned simply by good manners and pretty words. be perfectly willing to say \"no\". you may not have much power, but you have the power to give them horrendous publicity. work with that."
"full removal of the nex store is for me the only way to start restoring some trust, its the only way to remove the shadow of p2w that will now loom over eve because actions speak louder than words."
"this"
"my message, if i was on the csm.1) option to disable / turn off / revert the cq content. its a resource hog, provides less functionality than previous content.2) mt. commitment that no core eve game changing items will be available. so thats ships, modules, skills, implants, ammo, bpo/cs.3) mt. keep it vanity and fluff and its fine. actually i'd be tempted to pimp out my pve ship with a custom racing stripe. 4) but... keep working on incarna, i get it. i can see where you're going. but one room, no player interaction, astounding prices, buggy implementation.. what did you expect us to say?"
"ccp is watching you, boycott ccp"
"seriously increase you're communication with the playerbase asap.use you're magic powers to make a sticky post of you're blogs. it's by far the best way to see what your doing to protect us."
"i absolutely agree. i've commented many times that the information flow to the community as a whole is spotty and scarce. they act like it's our duty to track them down and follow their blogs and postings. well i thought they worked for us not the other way around. if you insist on using only communications channels away from the the community, then as the op suggests -- get a stickied thread and post your link."
"start a thread for input already, get it in one place, get organized, spam it on mega threads, get votes going for hot/sore points.fs nows the time to prove csm is worth something, to arms people."
"\"you're\" is short for \"you are\".\"you're posting on the eve forums.\"\"your\" is used to refer to things that are owned by another person.\"english is not your second language.\"this distinction is subtle, but important. english is a ***** of a language. i assume it's an honest mistake because your thread is otherwise perfectly normal.and, yes, blogs are good."
"nah, swg went down much faster, and alot harder, like the hindenburg.... eve is sinking gracefully, like a fat-guy with ice-cubes in his pants, or the titanic."
"ccp probably could have gotten away with it if the leaks hadn't come out casting them as snidely whiplash..."
"to the csm,thank you for reassuring me that you guys are taking the fight to ccp on this, but what the player base really need is information and reassurance. mittens, we need another fireside chat m8 where you lay out the csm's policy and what's been going on."
"awesome, thanks meissa."
"corporatesh*t management"
"proposal not supported.thanks to all csms, who have been standing up and attempting to deal with this issue in a manner fully consistent with what the (apparently) far majority of your constituency is saying. this is a great credit. otoh, quitting as suggested - unless it is in the (eventual) context of an overwhelmingly massive shuttering of accounts in face of total intransigence - can only be disenfranchising to your constituency and counterproductive to ensuring ccp's understanding of this issue. that such might not matter, anyway, is a topic for separate debate.bear in mind, since ccp has abdicated its responsibilities to properly communicate to and with us, the csm are our foremost hope in this issue. they are the only ones at this point who may be able to deliver in a moderate and neutral manner what each side - ccp's and the player community's - needs to know to deal with these potentially game- and community-breaking issues in a thoughtful, reasoned and reasonable manner - instead of one driven by either timid and ongoing silence coupled with bursts of contemptuous hubris from one side, or unchecked emotion and irrational fear of the unknown on the other.i look forward with strained but still intact patience to your follow-up reports, and hope that some measure of sense can be obtained from ccp."
"i am not going to come here and say i speak for everyone like many others because i do not. one thing that caught my eye that i have not seen brought up yet is the idea of adding more slots to the fitting storage tool and selling it in the nex store. this should be part of a normal patch or an expansion and not sold to us imo. if they decide to do it anyways or anything like that, i will stop thinking of eve as having free expansions. this is just food for thought. i know that was a brain storming mail to begin with hat was leaked but i wanted to make my opinion known. thanks"
"the recent inclusion of a mt shop in eve raises some controversy. i personally don't like the way this plex for clothes thing is heading. so i decided to propose an evolution of the current plex for isk system to become a more flexible and fair payment system, because i want substantial player interaction for rl money.introductionfrom a game lore point of view, most 'hard' rules are enforced by concord, the plex is a renewable licence to fly a spaceship. so let's replace the plex with the more flexbile concept of 'concord influence' in a ratio of 1:10, and be more granular about the things that concord may allow or deny you:ci cost --- privilege0 --- you can log in and do stuff in station, and use shuttles and your pod in space1/2/5/25 --- you are allowed to use a frigate/cruiser/bs/capital ship without getting outlawed/concordokken2/5/10 --- the cost of a tech school/university membership, where 2 is for basic skill, 5 for rank 4+ skills and 10 is for rank 8+ skills5/10/20 --- cost per month for starbase charter for s/m/l towers, once the charter runs out concord 'clears' the moon10 --- concord bribe to reset your sec status50 --- concord bribe to instantly flag a single player in space to outlaw for 15 mins75 --- concord fee for raising the sec status of a low/sov. nullsec system to 0.5 for a month120 -- concord bribe to set any high sec system to 0.4 sec status for 2-4 hours (limited to once a month)240 -- concord fee to overlook cynos and capital ships in a high sec system for 2-4 hoursif you set old plex to cip to something like 1 to 10, with the above scheme a capital ship pilot will cost 3.5 plex per month. a noob will be able to start his career for way less than a plex per month, making eve more attractive for new players. a very basic game play as station dweller would be 'f2p'.new rl money sink would be the 'concord bribe' system. for the equivalent of 5 plexes you can seriously grief a player, for a few more bucks you can turn jita into a ffa. maybe this even has to be far more expensive to prevent excessive abuse ;).'travel advisory: due to a sansha fanatics suicide attack on concord communications facilities in jita there might be a temporary disruption of concord services. we advise unarmed craft to dock or leave system.'"
"i enjoy high sec ganking i do it very often. however i think it should be made a bit more difrficult as its easier and safer then ratting in 0.0 imo at least"
"serious internet politician for president?"
"nah, this would be more like the \"combat upgrade\", we arent forced to pick proffesions yet, though with the recent influx of whiney wow players along with the outrage of bitter vets, i unfortuneatly dont see proffesions being that far off."
"hi all,will \"monetizing your apps and services\" be an issue also?"
"1) mt can sell only cosmetic stuff for perso or ship.2) pls ccp make a planification for all modification you would like to make in eve. add planner on eve gate. with this structure every player can see when, the update will be ready and who work on them ( exemple balancing, pos et industry). that will be more clear for everybody."
"good stuff"
"i was discussing this on our alliance forums and this is the basic idea i put across regarding the balancing of supers,dreads and general stuff**warning, may contain a wall of text**sorry for double post, i tired to trim it down i swear :pall of eve is risk vs. reward but to me supers are not at risk 90% of the time they are used due to the multiple things that are stacking in their favour.dreads, carriers and rorquals are capitals, each of them has a type of siege that you use to get the most out of their designed role and they are all designed to be a risk reward deal by limiting things that might help you like jumping out, moving, rr and such.so to the point:sc's should have a siege module, add +1 high slot for a semi-expensive item (say 300-500mil?) that an sc can fit only 1 of. reduce the stats on them from 3 per level to 1 per level of carrier. this makes them a glorified carrier with fighter bombers unless you use this module. all the usual stats are restored when the module is activated. so we got the reward in the form of the crazy dps, now the risk. in siege the sc should not be able to jump for 10 mins and the log of timer should be increased to that full 10, also they cannot get rr in this time but everything else remains the same including the ability to move/warp and the 3 min log off timer outside of siege.i also think titans should have the same penalties for using a dd and need a slight nerf to tracking, nothing major. if you want to hit that bs u got to compromise alot for it but it should be possible imo. 10 mins is over 3 times the current log of timer and in theory you would require 1/3 the subcap fleet to do the job without nerfing the dps, tank and prestige that comes with a super."
"next topic: super blobs, what do?the faithful dread, killed so often it hurts to use them. they are clearly the bottom end of the scale when it comes to the risk vs. reward . so imo they need to keep siege but have a base damage and tracking upgrade aswell as siege giving a + 5% resists per level of tactical reconfiguration. +20-25% resists (the rev would need a balance here) is enough to make you able to get a rep cycle off in siege making you last even longer aswell as make you less squishy vs a super cap and the isk vs isk numbers suddenly favour he guy with more friends in dreads. to compensate they should also have the 10 min no logoffski timer. a dread in siege can't hit subcaps so it's already balanced their and it would make a group of them into a force to scare off a sc or titan.but this still leaves the issue of the current super blobs. if they field 90 sc's your gona need several hundred dreads even with the changes i suggested and even then 3 sc's can insta pop a revelation that already has that +25% boost to resists.my original thought was limit the number of supers that can be in a system, which is a terrible idea.so my idea is this instead: limit the mass that can jump to a cyno.this doesn't limit the number u can put in system but means you will need a lot more cynos to get in a 90 man super blob.*the next problem with the idea lies in ccp's idea of size when it comes to capitals.an archon has a mass of 1.11 billion kgan aeon is 1.51 billion kgmake the aeon have a mass several times an archon and maby this is in business.here's what im thinking:fyi, i picked amarr but the numbers can do all races.abandons should have a mass of 100 mil kg, that's pretty damn close to what we got now.archons have a 1.5 bil mass, they aint tinyrevelation in at 2 bil because meh balance imo.aeons have a mass of 5 bil, huge hike up but its a super, cry some more.titans in at 10 bil, because they are huge in comparison to an aeonreferencethe cynos mass allowance should be based on the cyno skill or a new skill and possibly allow a t2 variant of the cyno.basic cyno is 5bil mass + 5bil per level of cyno or new skill up to a max of 30 bilto the skip types with my suggested numbes that is......600 abbadons a.k.a. is not gonna really screw with titan jump portalarchons get 40 from 1 cyno. i cant name the last time i saw 40 carriers in 1 cyno, so no change.rev's in at 30, possibly an issue but if they get the buffs stated it would balance it out.aeons, 6 per cyno. oh boy, now we hit the money. this limits them quite extensively as to how they can get aroundtitans in at 3 per. see above for oh **** comment.next issue: limiting supers like this means its easier to defend space ,which is primarily where u will see alot of supers. so in response to that ide say remove at least a timer from the ihubs to balance that out.(ide say the 50% armor timer, because it's just silly to me)andmake cyno beacons have a mass limit of 20 bil (aka 2 titans 4 sc's) every 5 mins (they can put supers in faster but at a staggered pace and a set location in system). to me this means that fighting in sov war will either be fast and big with multiple red cynos going up and a defence fleet is not gonna make the first timer or it would be slowed down with supers being added to the mix as time goes on and as it becomes safe to pop cynos. either way its much more fun for subcaps with alot more chances of supers being denied access into a system or getting a case of the deads.also, imo cynos should either a) go down once the mass limit is hit, and the cyno ship can gtfo or b) the cyno should break, possibly taking the ship out with it.ta da! you have the damage, tank, price and e-***** of having a super aswell as the balance across subcaps having issues when they encounter one, defending space and dusting off that old dread.td:dr make sc's and titans have a 10 min log off timer if they decide to go for a full on fight. dreads get a tank buff, cynos need mass limits, tweak mass on ships to get less supers per cyno. balance sov warfare to be less reinforcement timers to balance the added ease of defence due to this change.sorry for the text wall.thoughts and flames?"
"to foz--i honestly think that if ccp were to implement your suggestions, eve would instantly become a better and more balanced game. fully supported.let's hope this gets done a.s.a.p."
"after weeks of a minor comeback all the way up to no. 18 on the list, the megathron has dipped back down to the 20th most popular ship on eve-kill.net. on the bright side, it's still the no. 1 gallente hull on the list!now that incarna feature has been deployed, please abandon it (like all other features you implement) and fix gallente instead!"
"what's also messed up is that 13 of the 20 ships on that list are minmatar hulls.. great balance."
"i don't play nullsec, but i can tell you that until resources are distributed evenly, then there will always be a jita. there's no enough moongoo to saturate 2 markets (though if 2 could be set up that'd be a real improvement). ontop of that, there's the different regional variations in ice etc, they need moving and distributing from a central point. as to t3 stuff, there's nowhere near enough to saturate just the one market (usually...), if you want to really do t3, get into a wh, or just make friends with wh people and do some trade (hi!).regarding the scorched earth ideas, i really think that's something ccp should take a real look into. currently the way 0.0 sov is fought seems to involve big blobs of supercapitals and all sorts of stuff (yeh, we in whs laugh at your supers), with the addition of 'mini objectives' to cripple systems economically, based on a timer/cycle method, you reduce the 'entry level' to sov warfare. a gang of rifters fitted out with the module (probably a high slot item, no cloak can be used when it is on? we want fights, not cloaks) could then do some serious damage if it was organised enough. turn off those ihub upgrades (except the sov ones, that'd be bad), disrupt the asteroid belts, do all sorts of damage. you can fit it into the lore without much trouble, bonus points!"
"["
"no!"
"no"
"no."
"editno"
"cosmetic onlyi'm not bothered about the sale of vanity items for stupid cash... if people are dumb enough to buy them... hell there will always be doinks dumb enough to waste thier cash.ccp said they would sell anything that changed game mechanics and now they need to stick to thier word"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only."
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"no!"
"nothe games are f2p with microt, or pay per month, not f.. hibryds."
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetics only"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetics only"
"no."
"no"
"nojust no ... this is not a good idea ccp"
"no. please dont **** the eve"
"noooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo"
"no.microtransaccions = fail"
"no"
"no to microtransactions!!"
"no ccp!!"
"no :("
"no!!!"
"nowe already pay for plex, plex to isk and isk for anyting...."
"no."
"no"
"no!"
"no!"
"make the storebpc only!this is how it should work.i have a list of items in the store all of them are bpc's (each bpc has 5 runs on it)lets say this time i pick monocole so i drop $60 bones and get the bpc...i then have a list of ruff materials that i need to make the awesome monocles...so i jump in my hauler go over the the planet and start making the base materials i need...once i have the materials i then go back to the station and open industry and start a run cycle to construct the monocles...i can then sell this item on contract or market or my store(when i get one) for isk...$60-$70 = 1.4 billion isk = 3 plex for one 5 run monocole bpc... i sell each monocole for one billion isk now i have made 3.6 billion isk...do mt this way and i dont think people will have a problem with it...make the arum store bpc onlypersonally i would want my store to be a \"west cost choppers\" where i install awesome engine trails and paint jobs..."
"no!i mean i can live with cosmetic only, but man we pay subscriptions dammit!"
"noat first i would have been ok with just vanity items. but it opens the door to p2w items. so no the nex needs to just be gone."
"cosmetic only"
"[cosmetic only]at reasonable prices. no completely silly ideas now."
"no"
"i vote no.we pay with $$ and time already. if it were done with isk i would have no problem (as long as it doesn't cost more then a battle ship for cloths).thank you"
"i vote no for any kind of micro-transaction"
"vanity items. sure.but once people can start buying ships and in game products the fun stops. because the ingame eco and politics are seriously the only truly unique things about eve."
"no"
"cosmetic is fine."
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"cosmetic onlymust have lower cost, not $70! that is just nuts, want to make more money? sell at lower cost and you will sell more!"
"no"
"no"
"no.that's like faillaserdrake or missileapoc. seriously ccp, why would you even consider it?"
"cosmetic only."
"cosmetic only"
"only if eve online went f2p otherwise no."
"no"
"no."
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only!"
"no."
"noi also support removal of all current microtransactions."
"cosmetic only"
"noi would vote cosmetic only if it meant cheaper vanity items, like 10 shirts for a plex."
"no - not in any way!"
"cosmetic onlybut with reasonable prices. if this cant be achieved, then scrap the idea.dont ruin a great game"
"no."
"no"
"no"
"nomicrotransactions kill the sandbox we want more content if they have to raise subscription to do it so be it.with in reason (repeat within reason meaning less than 5 dollars more ) by content i dont mean just bull**** clothing, i mean some new missions would be nice i have been playing eve since 2007 and i haven't seen any new agent content in the last year have your non vanity items if you want just seed em on the market or better still seed the bpos and let us make the stuff thats how the sandbox is supposed to work either way there is better ways to make money than putting the squeeze to your loyal followers i hope you don't fill our sandbox with concreteseriously we are passionate cause we love this game and would hate to see it die"
"no. it isn't with the spirit of a virtual game to sell virtual items for real money. just because everyone else is jumping off a cliff, do you join in?"
"no!!!"
"yesim all for the vanity items side of the new aurum system as it has no impact on the game .. appart from the people who will be primary if you have a silly eye thingy on your portrait im even up for so called \"gold ammo\" and other such items but only if they come in the form of a bpo (though i do understand that the leaked memo was a brainstorming memo and nothing more) where i would draw the line is the sale of sp, as it takes time and effort to get the better ships and the skill to fly them also takes time to master my 2 pennys"
"no pleaaase !"
"no"
"no!"
"no."
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"no - micro-transactions kill the sandbox and ruin immersion."
"no"
"no!!!this is killing eve otherwise!"
"no mt @ all"
"no,also remove the aurum shop from he market page, it doesn't belong there."
"no"
"yes, with it being vanity items onlyunder the provision that any vanity items get destroyed/looted when the capsuleer dies.the clone died, thus everything on said clone should go too.i want the tears of people who just lost a $70 monacle."
"no.microtransactions will destroy eve. ccp have always fought the norm and done the different thing all along. what the f*** has changed? why are you greedy ******** following the other greedy companies like ea, activision and blizzard?ccp go back to doing the different thing. not this in-game microtransactions crap that will destroy the game. aurum sucks, nex sucks, microtransactions suck. leave it out yea?"
"no!nuff said"
"no"
"no"
"no!"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic onlynot that i believe it will stay that way."
"no ."
"cosmetic only(its basicaly a no, but if 12 year olds like to steal mommy and daddy's cash for a shiney item of no use, fine by me)"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"no."
"no"
"cosmetic only."
"noi don't like microtransactions atall. but they are in the game now, and are not going to be removed. either they remove the sub for eve (which would wreck the economy) and go the whole hog with microtransactions (this will see many people quit completly) orgo cosnetic only. if they do this it would be nice to have full clarification that this is all it will ever be while ccp owns and runs eve."
"cosmetic only."
"noand tu vieja en tanga ccp :)"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only."
"cosmetic only"
"no to microtransactions."
"no mts"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"hell no"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"no!"
"cosmetic only"
"noit never should have been introduced but as someone else pointed out, it's already in the game so........cosmetic only"
"no"
"no."
"no.absolutely failing that: cosmetic only."
"no"
"no"
"no"
"hell no!"
"noooooooooooooooooooo"
"cosmetic only.\"no\" in regard to items that affect gameplay!"
"no"
"no"
"no.why in a game of internet spaceships ?"
"no"
"no !!!"
"noresoundingly no"
"no"
"no - i'll unsubscribe if this turns to just an another \"pay rl money to win\" game."
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic onlyi've been playing microtransaction supported games for many years now, paying only occasional token charges not because i wanted something from the store, but rather because i felt that a free game was good enough to pay for. this will not happen with eve, as the game is not free, so there is no need for me to even remember what the cash shop icon looks like.eve has been dying since before i joined in 2006. and yet i am still playing it now in 2011. i will probably still be playing it many years from now, shrugging my shoulders in a silent \"so what\" while the forums invent new creative ways to hyperventilate with every expansion.cash shop? so what. *goes to fit a new fleet bs*"
"cosmetic onlywant to be a peacock .. fine ... dont want anything to effect an outcome of a fight to be part of this bull****"
"no"
"no!"
"hell no.p2win + subs is completely ******ed. i don't even condone microtransactions for cosmetic only as it will serve as a bouncing board for the p2win transactions in the future. believe me; i come from a place that has compound tax up to 78% (we're still paying for wwi and wwii taxes!!!). that's how they introduce crap like that to the population... a trickle at a time.a little harmless micro-transaction here, another one there... some special limited time only ammo, then the mcrib becomes part of the mainstream menu as it becomes accepted by the public and wham! t3 machariel with 12 gun slots for 500$...hell no..."
"hell no!!!!"
"no!"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"yes!!!can't wait to buy skillpoints with rl cash directly from ccp to distribute as i see fit rather than being forced to go the rl cash -> plex -> isk -> character bazaar route. go ccp!"
"no."
"cosmetic only.\"no\" in regard to items that affect gameplay!"
"cosmetical only."
"no!"
"cosmetic only"
"no.learn to live within your means. seriously, what horribly small percentage of customers ever said, \"gee, i can make stuff out of minerals, but it would be *awesome* if i could make it out of real dollars!\"there is can be almost zero player based demand for a feature like this."
"cosmetic only"
"no... its a spaceship game. nobody cares about stupid costumes. we can buy barbie dolls for that."
"no"
"cosmetic only ... if and only if it is really micro (1-2$) and not macro (60$) transactions (isk to $-wise). with an official statement that should pass as law as long as ccp exists: that there will not be anything that actually affects gameplay/industry in any way whatsoever in the vanity store."
"hell no.though its a bad time to ask after the weekend. a week ago i'd have said cosmetics only though now my perceptions have changed and i don't trust ccp enough not to try and smuggle in $$$ for remaps or +1 per monocles."
"no"
"no"
"no.i pay 30$/month. you have a wonderful game here.you even managed to make a game where players want to use more than one account.don't screw it just to make some quick money."
"cosmetic only, and i would like to see prices of current offerings lowered."
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only.if some people like to pay for clothes and ccp wants to make money from that, i dont care, people can waste money on cosmetic as much as they want, they are not changing the performance of the game.but for example when it comes to buy faction ammo for real money, wtf?"
"no to micro transactions.micro transactions , dlc , ... ruined to many games allready!want to earn extra ccp ? do percentage discounts for each extra account u get, this can only be good business.fix the old problems like alliance rights and stuff that people are asking for ages , if so many ask for it, would you not think it would improve the game? to keep a steady flow of new people joining (and staying as well) while keeping the older players happy wich in turn helps the new player to integrate into eve. listen and fix what is wrong all along and dont ask more when u in fact u have debt to us, the players....incarna is the right step forward but without fixing the old problems you create a crumbling foundation."
"no.dont kill eve, please :("
"no"
"no."
"no"
"absolutely, no"
"nocategorical no, just a very bad way to go. truly horrible, really. once played a silly car crashing game with micro-transactions, was one of the first players and did buy some mt stuff, it basically made non mt willing players serial losers, quickly saw errors of my ways and quit asap. was just a giant cash suck fest that was repeated endlessly in other games. once the genie is out of the bottle there is bugger all chance of getting it back in."
"no"
"no! hell no!"
"no"
"no."
"no"
"no"
"no unfair advantages"
"cosmetic only. pink drakes i can live with."
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"no !!!!"
"noo"
"no"
"no"
"no."
"no"
"no."
"cosmetics only"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no......"
"no."
"yes"
"cosmetic onlyand feel free to raise the prices. a lot. seriously.-ava,diy-sports.com"
"no, hell no."
"cosmetic only.and for reasonable prices."
"cosmetic only"
"no. there is a reason i can't play all the other mmos with cash shops for more than 28 minutes. it's the complexity of this game and a playerbase that take great pride in their game that no other seems to have. remove the complexity by allowing shortcuts in exchange for real money, and enjoy having a mediocre game full of people that cannot think for themselves. and we thought local chat in jita has been terrible all this time. just wait."
"no"
"yes"
"yes, this makes sense to me from both a performance perspective and an rp/immersion perspective too.the npe could still start in the cq then move on to either the hangar view/in space. undocking directly from the cq should be an option, as should switching back and forth between the cq and hangar view (e.g. via a 'leave pod'/'enter pod' button). you could even make the pod on the cq balcony interactive so it's possible to enter it from there...o7mag"
"+1i could even live with a variant of the old 'do not load station environment' mode, where a static pic of the current ship was shown, as the non-cq setting. maybe something akin to the incarna splash screen.i typically run 3-4 clients. running cq on all"
"+1 good idea."
"yes"
"1.0"
"no"
"+1the 'loading' screen is immersion breaking."
"+1 ( i dont like to be forced to use something i cant use )they already forced me to make a face for my main characters, it took me 2 hours to finish then. my geforce 6200 just cant handle it.===============================================yes i want the o"
"i like wis i do. but as a mission runner, docking and undocking alot and being forced to get out of my ship to hand in the mission every time! is just not needed.a cutscene with the option to make it skipable to disembark from your ship and venture out into the station would be perfect."
"@op: i do not think ship spinning should come back for the station view, if you want to spin your ship do it in space! so i guess for number 1 i would prefer the old hanger view with \"load station environment\" off.some ideas to make incarna not quite opti"
"cq should deffinately be a further step that the podpilot takes from the old docking/hanger station. why this wasn't done from inception i'll never know.so yes, thumbs up."
"+1 yes yes yes"
"excellent post, op. everything that cq could and should be. +1."
"1.0"
"1.0"
"i approve +1"
"not sure about the cutscenes as it might increase loading times. which are already terrible and make low/nullsec station strategy greatly crippled.sorry didn't finish, +1 about the space>ship spin>cq thing. though i think there should be an option to go straight from cq to space."
"+1cq is immersion breaking.having controls seen through over the shoulder perspective that open up windows as a first person perspective hud is extremelly disorientating.i find the whole incarna cq experiance a bit \"out of body experience\" ish , if that m"
"i support this thread to, except the part where i would need to watch my pilot coming out the pod and all that each time i want to enter the station walking enviroment.as for over the shoulder fpsish view i think it is fine the way it is no need to throw out dev time just because some people find that still a point.no keep the fps view, it is fine."
"i suggest supporting follwing petition as it was created earlier and we need to consolidate :"
"1.0"
"agreed. plus, let me leave this piece of information here. csm, i beg you please, sit on ccp's meeting room floor, and don't leave iceland unless ccp agrees to the following:from here."
"completely agree with op, having just read zulu's blog part deux i'm a little concerned this might not be addressed as he was mainly talking about aurum, have any devs actually acknowledged the station issue?"
"1.0"
"signed"
"yes, this makes sense to me from both a performance perspective and an rp/immersion perspective too.the npe could still start in the cq then move on to either the hangar view/in space. undocking directly from the cq should be an option, as should switching back and forth between the cq and hangar view (e.g. via a 'leave pod'/'enter pod' button). you could even make the pod on the cq balcony interactive so it's possible to enter it from there...o7mag"
"+1i could even live with a variant of the old 'do not load station environment' mode, where a static pic of the current ship was shown, as the non-cq setting. maybe something akin to the incarna splash screen.i typically run 3-4 clients. running cq on all"
"personally i have nothing against the captain quarters and their loading all the time globally, but i'm certainly against it been not optimized. right now on my 2gb ram, q6600 and nvidia 560 gtx it takes 25-30 seconds to load - that's just bull****. and the bad part is not that it loads 25-30 seconds, it's how it affects the performance of the pc itself during that time. even the eve window freezes and thinks a while to execute my commands. so practically i can't do anything during that time. i have 2 windows usually and if i load 2 of them in space - i get 100-110 fps at max quality settings (including 8x aa) for the 1280x1200 windows.load captain quarters and ups - we have 2 windows at 15 fps tops staring at the wall. look at the interactive displays and it goes down to 10 fps. on 560 gxt... y'r kidding me, right? it's absolutely apparent that it is not optimized. at all. totally, absolutely, 100% not optimized. it would be good to hear if the work is being done and what is the progress on that. right now i just have disabled the cq, because despite my readiness for the incarna - it just interferes with the game (even if i play 1 window - it's just hard to do anything while cq are loading). and to say the least - why even bother to load cq when i just dock, swap the ship and undock in 15-20 seconds? just that my video card spins it's wheels up to 100%, cranks up it's cooling system and my power supply unit becomes hot as an oven (650w) and cranks it's cooling from 30% to 100% speed (do you know how loud a 120mm fan is at 3000 rpm?)?and i will not start with graphical bugs - 10 minutes in cq and i get a few bugs and glitches witch just make it unplayable (like avatar stuck at one place and not moving)."
"it's always been promised that incarna would be completely optional.this promise has been broken, this needs to be rectified."
"+1 ( i dont like to be forced to use something i cant use )they already forced me to make a face for my main characters, it took me 2 hours to finish then. my geforce 6200 just cant handle it.===============================================yes i want the o"
"exactly! make no mistake, i love the whole cq/walking-in-station thing, but the \"leave your ship\" button (i.e. optional) would've been a much better way to do things i think.and hats off to ccp for making this game, it's what pc's were made for!"
"cq off should return to spinning ship.not \"here is the door...\""
"yes.space>ship spin>cq"
"absolutely this.i actually have no software/hardware problems with incarna, i actually like it somewhat (aside from eve being a memory hog for some reason and the *cough* elephant in the room but that's not what this thread is about.), but a disembark button to actually leave the ship is a must."
"absolutly yes.in fact, i dont use it because its mandatory. if i could get in the hangar and press a button to see my cq i would do it from time to time. now i only see a wall with a door and never get to cq."
"give us our docked spaceship view back. insert a button that says \"leave hanger\" to enter into cq wis incarna."
"damn straight. i kinda like cq, but i don't always want it, not to mention the time it takes."
"please bring back the hangar and add a button for walking in stations"
"1.0"
"i would love the hangar back with a disembark option, as i do miss the functionality and the fun of it. it also seems more logical not to unpod for every little thing or quick hangar visit."
"supported"
"returning the normal ship spinning view with an option for disembarking would be a win-win situation for everyone."
"supported!"
"i just have to applaud both of these quotes. the first one is very true. and the second one is genius!"
"mt doesnt improve the game at all. it just allows ccp to sc**** in cash from some muppets stupid enough to waste it.no..... you're just mad because you've got a little blaster..."
"that is a fantastic idea. i could easily get behind that."
"ccp wants mt, then let us keep mt. demanding the removal of mt would be overreaching."
"remove mts and aurum completely."
"there are already plenty of currencies in eve - isk, plex, lp, navy/pirate tags ... imho everything in-game should be available to purchase for one/more of the above, and should involve a player either mining/making/hunting for the item (i.e. not bypassing the in-game economy). we don't need another currency!that's just my 0.02isk.o7mag"
"remove mts complitly witout eny retun.voite with all my 4 chars."
"yes"
"no........ to micotransactions no..... to aurium i have been playing since 2007 the gtc to plex to isk works fine don't go no further eve does not and will never need a secondary currency isk is good ccp i hope you don't fill our sandbox with concreteseriously we are passionate cause we love this game and would hate to see it die if you need more cash raise subs a few dollars ( note a few means under five ,feel i need to clarify this in light of ccps idea of micro ) and in turn give us some new missions i'm sure no one would complain if you were honest and said look our production costs are going up and we need to generate a bit more revenue as such rates for playing are going to 19.95and the aur well it was a bad idea we will just seed these non vanity items on the market or put em in the lp storeor better yet seed the bpo and let us make em that is how the sandbox has always worked in the past"
"no micro transactions"
"ccp can't be trusted with microtransactions."
"mt are bad"
"no micro transactions"
"no microtransacations.2 accounts cancelled and just resubbed to perpetuum."
"no to mt!our monthly payment of 15 dollars should be enough for ccp to design 4x4 pixel monocles."
"sup. mts beyond plexs will ruin this game, vanity or not.+1"
"yes"
"hopefully"
"no mt"
"/signed"
"no mt. i don't even like plex very much.. also, last day as ccp customer. o/"
"removed!"
"timemachine?"
"i support this."
"/signed"
"ccp will never take them out now, even if we all quit. but i agree they should go and they need to go for the long term viability of the game as it was conceived.so yeah:+1yank the mts out by their roots."
"i used to have a moderate view on mt for vanity, but with recent events i now think differently.i have absolutely no illusions that there is any chance of ccp reversing it's direction on mts, but i will still register my opinion on the matter."
"yes."
"+1 to remove mt."
"why ruin the perfect system in place now? this makes me feel like i play a cheap game."
"no microtransactions -- none all items must be maid by playersremove aurm. or my 25 accounts stay cancelled."
"yes.i've always been against \"micro\"transactions in eve. it's a subscription-based game. keep the business model clear.they are also horrible for roleplayers who are into this for immersion. 200 million!?!?!? isk for a shirt on the market? only one place in the entire universe to buy clothes from, with a fake currency called \"aurum\"? for real?all of this content should be tied into gameplay and enhance it, instead of being used to milk players."
"you might as well ask if we want eve to be free and everyone at ccp to work for nothing. but since that won't happen:i would like to have microtransactions for vanity items only, and a lower subscription."
"no microtransactionin all the games i have played so far the game breaking mechanicinvolved with the mt items has always being game destructiveand killing all the fun involved in those games.and even if they stayed with the vanity only,the very pricing of them is just stupid.paying the equivalent of some 'real life' productfor your char to wear ? what kind of world are they in ?"
"yes. get the poison out altogether."
"remove the nex all together.the reason i say this, is that every p2p game that has added a mt store, has always, in every case started the way nex has, so called vanity items. within a year all these mt stores have so called \"power items\" for sale.the company always states \"just vanity\" or \"no plans\", and yet they wind up doing it.removal is the only way that we can be reassured that it will never happen, otherwise, just get use to the idea that we as players are being slowly conditioned to except the inevitable.i really do hope ccp proves all of us wrong."
"yes.all of this can be implemented via existing game mechanics."
"this... and then some."
"i support this thing"
"signed."
"/signed"
"signed"
"the noble exchange and vanity products are sickening bull**** of the highest order. this game is going to hell like a rocket."
"yes"
"dear csm,can we get a current dev roadmap for eve? what features, fixes, and tweaks are planned for the next year or so?tia!"
"given the fact that the in-development pages haven't been updated since fire was discovered, i'd have to agree with this notion. nothing set in stone, of course, but a general outline of what to expect in the coming months and years.supported."
"right now the most limiting factor, other than the learning curve, for a new player to enter eve is the fixed rate at which skillpoints can be acquired. even someone who wants to just go out and tackle in a t1 frig still needs to put a few days of training into it before they can do out and do that.new characters really should start with all skillpoints required to fly and fit a t1 tackler, but that's a different topic altogether.ccp should sell skillpoints for rl cash!as a rough estimate one can acquire 12 million skillpoints per year. so go ahead ccp and sell 1 million skillpoints for $15, or 1 million skillpoints for one plex.this shouldn't jade the bitter vets any further since they didn't \"work\" for their skillpoints either, they merely paid for them and waited for the training to be completed. new players will have the option to skip the wait by paying up, or just pay monthly and wait."
"it was brought up before and the community said hell no!!!that would give an advantage to someone for spening rl money. we as a community do not want non vanity items being bought with rl money. even vanity items should be made by players. this game is a player driver economy. keep it that way!"
"actually, what really is true is that there is a very vocal minority who rages against microtransactions on the forums. eve has 300k accounts (give or take) and only a miniscule percentage of those participates in the forums and only a fraction of those who participate express their dismay with mt.this is just to put things in perspective. the overwhelming majority of players is either not opposed or doesn't care one way or another.it's pretty obvious that your \"we\" didn't include me or people who think along the same lines so please don't pretend that there's any kind of consensus on the issue.in addition player consensus is basically irrelevant. ccp will do what they want to do, anyone who's been playing this game long enough knows that (mom nerf, carrier nerf, aborted capital ship overhaul, to name just a few). the csm is just a pr tool for show and has no decision making authority or influence over corporate decisions. ccp does what it wants and during the few occasions where ccp did something the csm wanted it was a feature that ccp was going to implement anyway.corporations are motivated by money. the eve population is stagnant at best. concurrent player count has been flat for the past 2 years or so. new players don't join eve because it's simply not worth their time to spend two years of their life waiting to get into some ship and fit it properly.selling skillpoints would adjust the prices characters fetch on the character bazaar downward, but other than that it wouldn't have any substantial impact on the game economy.why shouldn't people who are willing to spend rl money have an advantage? gaining an advantage due to one's financial position is the whole point! people who have rl money to spend irl have an advantage over those who don't. players who have isk to spend in-game have an advantage over those who don't.money buys advantage everywhere, that's the natural order of things. the only people who tend to be opposed to this are the poor and communists. ;)"
"this is the ultimate for me, they add skillpoints for cash i'm never coming back.basically it will allow new players to skip years worth of training. training i have spent years on and subs.i'm all for giving newer players a few more sp to player round with at the start, used to be 225,000 think it's now a lowly 50-60k.stealth cyno alt nerf is stealth"
"i do respect pros and cons and there is no problem for me to accept other opinions, but i have some questions to you:i think your are talking about total registered users ever (accumulated), but how many are active.if you can give me a prove, i'll change my mindnot opposed ok - but there are no real numbers available.i talked to a lot of player ingame, and they were shocked as we explained them the meaning of mt and the possible consequences.we did it on a normal way!and they simply didn't know what ccp thinks about them.the main problem is some player didn't use their brain and do not think beyond their own nose.just to make it simple: 1. you are going to pay twiceif its a f2p game sure no problem. eve isn't.2. addiding non vanity items will destroy the player-driven economy(i'm not going to explain this here again)finally it will kill the whole game. the very good input given to the \"forum in rage\" has been done by vet player and/or player with the keen intellect to recognize the direction our game is drifting to."
"true, you have spent time and money.new players will still spend the same (or heck, even more if ccp sells sp at a premium) money, so they are not getting a deal.time, yes, they are skipping the time you spent, but so what? arguably you also received entertainment value during the time you spent whereas new players have been \"missing out on the fun\". irl each generation has it easier than the previous one. the argument that the next generation shouldn't have it easier solely because the previous generation had a hard time isn't valid under any consideration. i saw some ccp video ahead of fan fest a couple of years ago where oveur was keeping track of every account and they wouldn't let him go to ff unless it's over 300k or some such. in either case, let's say it's only 20,000 actual people playing this game, it's still just a very small percentage of people who are openly upset about this.1. no you won't. first, there is no requirement to participate in mt. you can play the game as you normally would and completely ignore mt not spending any rl cash on it. second, let's say you pay for sp, you still aren't paying twice since you keep continuing to accumulate sp even after you bought some. third, and perhaps most importantly, you aren't paying twice because the purpose of your payment for whatever non-vanity item is to obtain the item at an instant thus receiving the item and freeing up time. you are trading money for item and saved opportunity cost. to put it in a different light, you are paying ccp to buy the free time back you would have spent on the grind.2. no it won't. ccp isn't stupid. whatever non-vanity items they may provide will not be available in-game by player-made means. so if they are selling you a faction ship there will be no way for you to get the same faction ship in-game and conceivably it would be a \"notrade\" item that can't be transferred to a different character. will that kill the current faction ship market? hardly, because plenty of people will not want to spend rl cash but rather pay isk for faction ships which are available in-game.will selling sp kill the player driven market? nope, it will merely adjust character values.non-vanity items is really a different discussion from sp though. there's no global downside to start selling sp."
"you can already do this by buying plex and selling it for enough isk to buy a character."
"this is a bad idea, give it not everyone is on the forums but it is a good sampling of the population.ask the thousand in jita, and they will tell you unanimously it is a dumb idea."
"+6 implant - 250 mil+7 implant - 1 bil+8 implant - 2.5 bil+9 implant - 5 bil+10 implant - 10 billooks go to me. plus they can be destroyed."
"obviously, this is meant to be the equivalent aurum amount rather than isk. not sure if that value has fluctuated yet."
"simply put no, never. training times means players are tought patience. can you deal with patience ?"
"so your argument is that when a person pays for entertainment time then instead of receiving entertainment value they should be taught patience?my first character was created on october 28th 2003, i know how eve works. i also know that in a day and age where lots of entertainment offers are competing for one's limited time a game which requires you to be patient for two years is doomed."
"patience is fine, it just doesn't exist in this game. you can already purchase sp for real money via plex in the character bazaar. all this would do is make characters more customizable. instead playing a toon somebody else created you can play your own, with your own skills, name etc. can you deal with reality?"
"as still a relatively young player, i have to say, from my perspective atleast, this is something i feel strongly about.selling sp will break one of the major things that brings people back. people take breaks to train long queues sometimes, and its stupidity to offer a speedier alternative as it will result in loss of immersion, loss of cash as people will get bored quicker by ataining goals fast thus resulting in subs being ended quicker and a detrimental effect on the long term veterans who influence the game overall. any scrub just jumping into any ship simply deprives the pilot of experience, and means a lack of balance between players.to ask for such a thing is rather idiotic to be honest. you break the time investment many people have placed into their characters, as well as god knows how many other negative effects. think before posting such suggestions."
"firstly, i'm interested to know how people taking breaks to train long skill queue's improves immersion for you. it seems like the opposite is true.second, characters are already sold for isk on the character bazaar. a brand new player can use plex to purchase a titan pilot and titan on their first day. (i realize it would cost many thousands of dollars, this is theoretical.) if a +6 implant (which would shorten skill queues by a very small amount over a +5, and can be easily lost) would break the game then how is the game not already broken?.. it's not broken because nothing can replace the experience of playing vs the skill point of a player. the rookies in titans will lose the titans regardless of sp.third, it is clear you are new. think about your points before making them."
"i wasn't debating implants so don't be cute. i was talking about direct sp sales. implants, viable but outright sp sales are idiotic. you can feel free to debate this with me but even you will have to admit unless your clueless it's a slap in the face of long time players. think before talking. this topic was not about implants, it was about selling sp outright."
"true, i guess when people refer to selling sp i figure there has to be more to it than that. straight up sp selling would be out of character even beyond ccp's recent pr nightmare. it would be like eve just straight up selling isk (not plex, but hard isk). eve wouldn't sell straight sp it would use some other medium. i don't think you have a valid fear. sorry, not being cute just overestimated you."
"i do agree that this would be bad though. thanks for your contribution."
"preliminary drafti have had much positive feedback (including outside this thread) and so began a preliminary draft. you can find it above! there is no massive change, merely explanations and expansions to the key notes."
"charles bronson."
"1.0"
"1.0"
"jmho: +1born in-game: march 2006.canceled: june 2011.the wallet has spoken, ccp lost.again jmho.oh, wow, another post from me on page 1!"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"2.0"
"in the interest of preventing conflict of interest from occuring, it will be assumed at as the draftee, azelor delaria is in support of the petition. the characters quendishir and anya klibor will be prevented from offering support in this, as they are one-in-the-same."
"1.0"
"1.0"
"65536.0"
"+1unprofessional conduct at its least palatable."
"1.0"
"this won't gain any traction, but i agree with the fundamentals. the ceo is the centerpiece for a given company and represents the measure of its ability and the scope of its vision. it really doesn't matter how noble the exchange of ideas can potentially be if the leadership has an iron lid on customer respect and service. the buck stops at the ceo and so does the responsibility for what ccp is doing to the customers it needs to keep.eve online is a dying mmorpg, but i don't mean that in the sense that most people are going to take it to mean. eve is dying because it is becoming more and more obsolete as time moves forward. it is only a matter of time before a serious scifi mmorpg contender displaces eve as the sandbox space game. so i can understand ccp's progressive moves in a direction that will diversify the ip and compliment the current playerbase with an even broader market with a distinctly stable history of loyalty.but, as with anything, how you handle change is the marker by which the viability of your future is handled. you cannot disrespect your current player base for the sake of future proofing, because that will have the effect soe already tested and failed at with swg. eve and swg are two completely different games, but the base concepts of the coming changes are the same: appeal the product to a broader market than originally scoped. the problem is that you have to consider the current integration of the product with the market you already have.yes it is true that a company will never grow without new transactions and that accounts on the books are earned income. but keeping that earned income is paramount to maintaining a black bottom line. perhaps ccp is taking a calculated risk with the loss of accounts vs the gains of the nex, but it is a risk that is completely unnecessary and is only going to hurt the most important facets of the community: the credibility of ccp and the viability of eve as a marketable product. all things stem from those two factors. you can't have a solid and loyal customer base without both of those things being maintained entirely.some of us love this game so much we invent new reasons to play or generate ideas to improve it, some of mine you have used in the past. but not even the most loyal customer can truly overcome losing one of the two aforementioned critical elements of the business foundation.do i know the magic fix for this? possibly, but without all the relevant data on it, neither i nor anyone else is truly qualified to make the hard decision.you can mr. p<U+FFFD>tursson. you can save this relationship with one paragraph. many of us are waiting to see what happens, but you can be certain that you will lose more subscriptions if things are not resolved.some fires smolder long after the firefighter has drowned the ignition source."
"+1people are ****ed off and grieving because they think eve is dying now, from a cause that can be completely averted with liberal application of the phrase \"no, we are not.\""
"i +1 this not for the fact that i believe it will oust hilmar, which it will not, but it will shake his confidence in his vision and he might look towards a new way that is more in line with the players."
"1.0"
"pretty much exactly how i feel. in particular, the pricing of the nex store is a side issue."
"1.0"
"hi csm,lucky for you you have a month to read the last 5 days of posts. not sure how you'll keep up but the above is a good start. pippa's post was also excellent.i doubt this really needs to be said, you play the game like we do but :expansions and patches that contribute rather than reduce bugs. we're fed up. didn't we get a promise about this recently. iirc csm told them we'd rather wait than rush on incursion and they listened. short memories, alzheimers ?clean up current content before we get new stuff. balancing and fixing the multitude of problems that exist atm would be just as good as new content. vanity only in the nex store. and lets get serious here. what's the use of going through all the trouble and resources of creating it to have it show up dead on arrival ? \" if \" we have to live with it then at least get it to work properly. combat wear, industrial miner uniforms, enough of the tea with the queen uniforms. and ask them how much for their shares. i'm still convinced the player base would be better shareholders than the dummies they have now."
"a good summary of my thoughts.edit: oops, forgot the thumbs up"
"you have my +1"
"i agree whole heartedly.+1"
"you have worded my sentiments perfectly. support."
"this is pretty much how i feel about this mess. you have my +1.the only thing i'd consider adding is that ccp adds a little more people working on the space flying part we have (balancing or team bff for example) so it doesn't feel like it's been left on minimum attention in favour of the new shiny stuff."
"+1 well summarised,although my priority is the need to be able to see what ship your in, with cq off and quickly change it (drag and drop) and load unload cargoes drones when i want to be in and out if station. cq will find if want to dock and do admin, m"
"i have one thing to add to this excellent list of issues.mt not prioritizedi want to make sure that no matter how successful (or not) the mt store becomes, that the focus of the development and coding teams will remain on gameplay. if every new update has tons of new 'bling' for our ships and bodies, but very little fixing/rebalancing of broken game mechanics, that's not acceptable.eve has to be the top priority. fix the bugs, restore the balance to ships, weapons, and pos warfare. if the art teams can get a few new shirts ready for the store then great.eve is a spaceship game with a store to buy virtual goods. eve is not a virtual goods management game that allows you to fly spaceships!"
"1.0"
"for me this issue is about non vanity items, and the ridiculous cost in the vanity store.they really need to clarify vanity items as well, are we going to see bars and shops that have been so loudly trumpeted by ccp being only available through aur? will hiring a corp room reflect the price of hiring an office in a station.personally i have no problem with vanity items but anything that effects a players tactical or strategic play is a game breaker.what has really concerned me is the pr disaster of the last four days!!!! this is the blame of the ceo, hilmar's failure to address this situation personally to the player base is appalling leadership of an organisation. he needs to get a reality check from this.his trip to gateshead should be cancelled and he should publicly apologise to the player community for being so dismissive, scornfull and arrogant towards their feelings. the fact he has the arrogance to stand in front of a trade audience that have been laughing at him all weekend is stunning. he should be preparing for this meeting with the csm and trying to save his company.ccp is clearly in trouble with its clients, it clearly has internal problems and dissent. they have drifted from disaster to disaster recently and their delivery of content has been appalling. words mean nothing it is actions and visible actions by ccp that stop this becoming a bigger diaster than swg."
"the csm must ask what happened to the old ccp.what did the old ccp do? they listened to what the players wanted! examples? the players banded together to form sort of alliances. what happened? ccp introduced alliances into the game.or players lived out of industrials in deep space. what did ccp do? they introduced pos.all of these gameplay elements were optional, no one was forced to participate.what is ccp doing now?they force people to participate on their new content. look at how they introduced the new forums, look at how they introduced cq - only after massive technical problems for many players they made it optional to turn it off.so my questions: 1) why is ccp since a few development cycles now enforcing stuff on players that they don't want?2) will cq stay optional?3) is ccp planing on giving us back the old hangar functionality?"
"while going through all the usual stuff get them to increase the number of saved fittings back to a reasonable number or revert to the old locally saved system, it's obvious now that it was a shameless attempt to charge us for functionality they removed."
"i updated all the question with the information given in this thread and only trough mail"
"i've posted this else where but i think it's time that we should have a written constitution (copy of my original post follows)given the recent events i think it's time that we had a written constitution, a binding social contract between the developers and the players. eve is a virtual world and ccp like it or not is the defacto government. as citizens of eve we need a constitution so that we can hold ccp to account and ensure that our virtual world develops and progresses in manner that meets everyone's needs including the needs of the developer (read government) to earn more money or raise a little extra cash provided that it doesnt come at the expense of game balance. what we need is security and safe knowledge that the game that we all know and love is worth investing in both finacially and morally. that we can make bets on the future and know in advance what significant changes are planned and approved by the majority of the player base as a whole.i've mentioned before there are some things yet to be developed that i would happily splash out a little cash for every now and again, so i'm not adverse to spending more money, but i am adverse to pay to win or pay to change the balance of power or pay to unlock features that we used to get for free etc.some of the items i would like included would be:1. online votes for new features with all implications fully explained by the devs2. a release of ccp from including 2 expansions per year (quality not quantity)3. a five year development plan written in detail available for all players to read and check etc4. all agreed points of policy to be binding and once passed irreversible5. an agreement that the constitution once set up can not be revoked or changed6. no new costly artwork for arts sake unless it's part of the written development plan (no point to the new augeror etc) this will reduce costs etc7 no change foistered upon the community without prior consent.i'm sure you will all think of more please feel free to add if you think a written constitution is a good thing that can benefit both the developers and the player base."
"what measures will ccp put in place to ensure that the dust514 will not become the first peice of \"gold ammo\" for aurum/plex when it becomes fully interactive with the eve online universe?seeing as us pod pilots are supposed to be able to hire dust players and effect sov/pi, and as dust514 will be a mt funded game, it is most likely that plex or aurum is going to be the currencey of hire."
"this this is what i want!"
"for my 2isk worth, here are my issues, in order.1. a guarantee that no gameplay affecting items will ever be for sale in nex.2. return the ship hanger and make the cq something you click through the hanger to get to."
"actualy guys no mts at all in eve wie nedd to stand a ground this time. if wie will alow now mts in eve that means after some ccp can **** on us again and bring soemting more pay **** in game. witout asking us if wie realy wont it."
"1) i like the idea of the cerebral accelerator for limited duration,however i feel it'd best be for new players only so that they can catch up to their friends in-game. my mate has only just started playing and i've given him implants and a skill plan etc. but it's taking sooooo lonnngg for him to be able to fit ships and be able to do anything when i take him with me on roams.2) in regards to the prices of the current vanity itemsno one is forcing you to buy them - all that needs to happen is for ccp to have more vanity items available and have new items added that are cheap and affordable - this way everyone can show/express some personality when they play doll-house and dress-ups with their avatars; the people who're prepared to pay the price for the expensive ones can be even more unique/expressive than others (or are you the kind of person who gets so jealous you're going to riot in front of your town hall because your neighbor can afford a porsche and you can't?)also this:3) items from nex storing being destructable? ...i guess ccp won't complain if it means more re-occurring transactions. ...personally however i'd like the option (hypothetically speaking ) to take off my best clothes if i knew i was heading into battle4) paint jobs, bpcs, having to repaint - makes perfect sense5) no convenience charges e.g. having to pay for 50+ fittings - as paying monthly subscriptions we should expect this6) this+1**edit** i know i didn't exactly contribute of any new ideas (sorry about that); rather i modified some of the ideas already mentioned and justified them. i also justified some of other people's ideas as they'd been picked on by other players.cheersp.s. i know the cerebral accelerator is a character enhancer, and i know in many of my other posts that i'm totally against this kind of thing; but if you read the rules i've put forward to govern the use of this, i feel you'll all agree that it will be quite harmless and won't impact anyone - no more than plex for isk already does at leastp.p.s. again... no noble/gold ammo or +9 implants etc. please!!"
"ccp have breached the trust of the playerbase, we were promised no mt 12 months ago, they went ahead. we were told mt was vanity only they then tried to introduce a scorpion for sale.they have said fearless was an internal discussion document only, why discuss what you aren't going to introduce.to restore trust there is only 1 option, the closure and removal of the noble exchange and the complete removal of aurum from our wallets.actions speak louder than words."
"ccp really think they can pre-load csm via assembly hall?sp for $$$? nice one!thin end of the wedge."
"all of it sounds good except; cerebral accelerator.only way that should be accepted is if it can only be used up to a certain point, say 10-15mil sp for example and just a small boost."
"just to clarify.. ccp didn't actually 'promise' ..they merely said that it wasn't their plan.also your post is off-topic. this is a thread for ideas - a proactive thread. not for pathetic trolling like yours.take it somewhere else hmmkay? thx"
"haven't you taken your daily dosis of medicine?"
"permanent or temporary gain is no big difference, it would upset the gamebalance (whatever balance we might have) and further enrage a playerbase that is at the edge. especially sp, which is the most permanent advantage imaginable in eve, is in my opinion an absolute no-go for the store."
"no. no skill points for money, no skill point acceleration for money. nothing should add gameplay affecting items in exchange for cash. the nex should never create something out of thin air that affects game play in the slightest. the golden rule should be if you want something, figure out how to offset the gameplay effect with a gameplay cost. kind of like the conservation of energy, it can't be created or destroyed only transformed. (if i remember right. :)i've suggested elsewhere that one could purchase additional character slots for cash as well as paying for training for 1 extra character on that account. you can't train two character simultaneously on one account currently. this would allow us to customize our subscription somewhat and is basically the same thing as multiple accounts except that you would only be able to play one character at a time. i think this would be an appealing option for people who can't or won't multi-client/box/account.i've also suggested skill transfer as an option. my reasoning behind this is that it does not add anythign into the game, it just moves it. the skill had to be trained first, the skill bought, etc. i propose that it work by purchasing an item blank, onto which the skill or memory of that skill is transfered (the donor loses that skill), that item can then be sold on the eve market for isk. a prospective buyer must first buy the skill book, then use the skill blank to transfer the skill memory to that character. 1 blank per skill, 1 blank type for each skill level and multiplier combination. these are the sorts of items that should cost upwards of 80 dollars and naturally in game would be accordingly priced.this strikes me as fitting within the lore perfectly, everything is up for sale even your memories."
"this one i won't back down on. the rest seem ok, but not this one.the ability to deck out your cq better in a single station as your home base would be nice. doesn't have to be too ambitious first up, just a couple of hotspots for the odd potted plant or sculpture. not all of them have to be mt either, you might collect a chunk of wreckage from a ship and display that as a trophy (possibly with a minor aur charge for mounting) or everyone's favourite, corpse tubes! buy the tube for aur, it comes with a plaque that alters to show the name of the corpse. the corpse, however, you have to supply yourself."
"give an inch and they take a mile......allowing just a small hole in a boat will cause it to sink.... eve already has enough holes letting water in...."
"but it'd be only for characters who have less than say 1.6mil sp.. like the 100% bonus new character used to get before the scrapping of learning skills.all that's going to happen is a character will be able to go from 50k (or watever the starting sp amount is) to something like 1.6mil in about 5 weeks instead of 2 months or something (these are by no means good estimates, you should just understand the point i'm trying to make)..which is enough to fly a rifter rather well. then you can't use the cerebral items anymore... wouldn't it be good for when/if you invited a friend to start playing the game that he was able to actually do 'something' in the 21-day trial?i'm experiencing this right now with a friend, he's almost at the end of his trial and he can't fit much on his rifter yet. furthermore if i change my fit on my rifter to the same as his (and have loads of free cpu & powergrid) i'm still doing wayyyy more dps and have a much bigger tank and i'm cap stable while he's lasting less than 2 minutes.would you seriously have an issue with a player who's 4 or so weeks old being able to do a little bit more dps and have a little bit better tank? ...you'll still beat him, but rather than owning him, it'll last a bit longer and be more fun for both sides i think....at the end of the day though, i'm not too worried if this does or doesn't go through, as i managed to convince my mate to subscribe anyway i just thought it would've been nice you know? and completely harmless...."
"which is precisely why i don't want \"well, ok, just a little in game advantage, ok?\" i'd love to see some new ships in our spacelanes, but they have to be either the same as existing ships (and require one of that ship to build/buy) or available to everyone, for isk.as to the boost, new players have the \"all learning skills at 5\" boost which more than makes up for the old learning boost."
"yeah fair enough"
"mt of any form is the small crack that will let the flood waters in....don't forget dust is going to impact sov mechanics in some way and they are full blown mt. what are the odds that ccp will use that as an excuse to turn the crack into a gapping hole????"
"mt is here and is here to stay. instead of resisting it, which is futile, it's better to go with the flow and try to steer. admittedly, there are cool things that i wouldn't mind shelling out a bit of cash for. the one stipulation: no in game advantage, at all. this part of my philosophy on the thing is the only part which is completely inflexible."
"i see what you did there!i agree that ccp isn't going to deviate from the mt path. that isn't going to stop me from voicing my concerns and making others aware of the situation either... well atleast until eve finishes its death spiral that is..."
"i could see a cerebral accelerator item in game to allow multiple characters on the same account to be in training at the same time. it would do nothing to increase training time on a single character."
"supported"
"i support with the following thoughts:it's pretty clear that the noble store is geared towards the new user as well as the veteren, so having items available for purchase individually at higher price-points than they would sell for isk after being manufactured is perfectly fine. as long as we have a way to manufacture the items ourselves as well.instead of purchasing bpo directly, we can purchase the item we want to mass-produce, and there would be the chance to reverse-engineer that item. instead of purchasing bpo directly from the store, we purchase an item and can reverse-engineer it, with a chance it will generate a limited run bpo. based on your industry skills, it would take several tries to get you a bpo that you can use. this way you can keep the prices a tad higher (still should be much lower than they currently are) and would allow for people to make a small investment of time & currency, and then the market won't be so artificial."
"so basically people can make isk from vanity items rather than just selling plex for isk?"
"clothing, should be buy direct, persistent, and not bpc.everything not entirely vanity (and that includes the \"alternate paint job\" ships) should be sold as bpc with at most a couple runs, but not alot."
"this has potential and is probably a 'core' idea already in process by ccp.there is undoubtedly a new market about to be revealed to allow players to customise not only their appearance but their surroundings and of course the ability to produce and bring to market 'exotic' goods of their own design.look to avatar featured developments such as second life and the player created market therein for purely vanity items. based around virtual currency with a rl value and even an exchange rate.this brings on the need for outlets such as ingame stores owned and operated by players and when wis becomes a reality then the idea of browsing in such a store becomes feasible.exclusive dress designers, furniture outlets, low lighting rigs and jukeboxes for the casino/disco/bar/crack house?my current idea is luxury toilet paper. i feel there will be a demand.i have been advised by a colleague that my business model is paper thin and i'll likely get 'wiped'.though i tend take his advice with a pinch of salt as he's a bit of turd ... keil"
"i would support bpc's (not bpo's)we already have plenty of \"out there\" fibers for hyper modern clothing polyaramids polytextiles supertensile plastics sylramic fibers industrial fibers microfiber shielding + genetically enhanced livestock for wool and leatherand you could argue that a monocle was manufactured from an occular implant combined with minature electronics and silicate glass or morphite crystals.lots of bpc ideas are possible, and you can give them very large -ve me's to keep construction costs high. (ie: lots of waste trying to select only the purest materials for these high end vanity items)i'd support it, but request that all vanity items (both useful in game and purely pretty pixels) so that they can be created and destroyed, allowing for continuous demand. i mean, if you cant wreck them, sooner or later every one in the game will have one and they won't be unique anymore."
"id like to see a clothing bpc using pi goods."
"offering bpc's for ships with customised hulls would create unfair competition on the market place between those manufacturers want to make the original ship and those making the customised one. you also split the market supply/demand for a product in two. now you have items people have bought off the noble exchange effecting the income of other players. customised hulls should work like a body shop for cars, you take your car in, they customise it for you and you get a shiny \"new\" car back. while these new prettier ships could still be put on the market, it doesn't take anything away from the original manufacturer.the other problem with offering bpc's rather than complete items is that it further limits your market only to people willing to engage in the manufacturing process. using the body shop analogy would keep it open to everyone without compromising the in game economy."
"that's how t2 bpc's work already. you supply the t1 item plus other materials and receive back a shiny t2 item.so bpc's bought in the vanity market should be the same. for clothing, straight build, but for uber ships and ammo, you still need to buy/build the t1 item, and acquire other specialized materials and then have someone with supreme skills build it. if anything, it adds to the t1 market as anyone wanting a vanity item will need the t1 item first."
"bpc means production cycle. this is eve.don't spawn things from thin air, this is not eve."
"i have similar idea. ccp could let us make this items, but make us pay for using production lines in aur, for example, or in form of some sort of tax.but i like the bpc-bpo idea even better."
"make the storebpc only!this is how it should work.i have a list of items in the store all of them are bpc's (each bpc has 5 runs on it)lets say this time i pick monocole so i drop $60 bones and get the bpc...i then have a list of ruff materials that i need to make the awesome monocles...so i jump in my hauler go over the the planet and start making the base materials i need...once i have the materials i then go back to the station and open industry and start a run cycle to construct the monocles...i can then sell this item on contract or market or my store(when i get one) for isk...do mt this way and i dont think people will have a problem with it...make the arum store bpc onlypersonally i would want my store to be a \"west cost choppers\" where i install awesome engine trails and paint jobs..."
"yes, good idea.bpc's ofc, bpo's would not make alot of sense for ccp.and inlcude all items, so clothing as well.also make all items destroyable, so this includes the clothing when you get podded."
"agreed"
"... except starbases, but yeah..."
"1.0"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"this is the first issue csm should tackle with utmost priority, eliciting a clear and definitive response from ccp."
"mt is here to stay, may as well get real about it.this seems reasonable. better this than aurum for sp. ideal? no. but a fair compromise.add sp remaps to the list, alot of people would pay for those. hopefully if we can support enough reasonable ideas ccp will be too overworked to come up with stupid ones."
"i'd resist skill remaps, makes skill points too fluid. i'd prefer to maintain skills as a hard asset. the skill transfer is fairly rigid and maintains that a skill point trained is a permanent skill point invested. there is no way to convert it into something you'd prefer without somewhere along the line someone investing the time to train the skill you'd prefer.you could buy the transfer blank, drop your unwanted skill into it and sell it on the market, the isk could then in turn be used to buy a transfer blank with the skill you want and you'd have to buy the skill book itself of course. i'd wager most people are only going to use this when they want a change of pace or trained the wrong skill, so while the demand may be huge for those who simply want to acquire new skills as quickly as possible, the supply will be i expect considerably less subsequently driving up the price considerably. so imagine that you've bought a transfer blank, used it and put it on the market. your going to roll the isk price of the plex that bought your blank into the price you charge as will others. demand will drive the price up further. those that whish to use plex to sell for isk will in turn have to convert even more plex into isk. this is win for ccp, while further lightening the rmt's wallets and spreading it more thinly without adding any new skill points to the game. i would think this would dilute the impact of rmt's trying to buy power on the world now given that they spend all their money on ships and items and what not. how much money will they spend on skills instead of ships? just some thoughts."
"i don't have a lot of problems with what you've listed as such, but what worries me about moving beyond vanity items to things that provide functionality, even if it's only a convenience thing and not an ingame advantage thing, is that it opens the floodgates.ccp comes up with a new, cool feature and has to decide whether to give it to us for \"free\" (for our 15bux), or if enough people will pay extra for it to make it worthwhile to release via nex instead."
"i completely agree. i'm just hoping to influence what is behind those flood gates. once the market was up even with just vanity items, it became inevitable that game affecting items will find their way into it. promises to the community are easily forgotten when there is money to be made. i'd like their to be a queue of palatable ideas ahead of all the crap we don't want to push the release of such things back as far as we can.if they start charging people for gameplay features/skill types/ship types/areas/etc while simultaneously requiring a subscription to play then eve is well and truly dead. its one thing to offer a few variants of existing in game items or non gameplay features, and another thing entirely to create nex only features. if we get to this point then we've been podded.the only reason any of those things are even moderately acceptable in other games is because they are f2p."
"i can see your point in topic 1 and 2the rest is just wtf why not give people free content as it should be normal ffs. you pay your ****ing fee for a reason.1st server, support, 2nd contentwhy should every \"non combat\" item cost reallife money - i dont get the point, incarna was announced a long time ago, they always talk about how \"awesome\" it will be, and now have to pay rl-money to use this new features properly. even more worse are guys wanting even more stuff to buy in the nex-store, stuff the should get for free don't get me wrong - i really see the point and advantage in payed services like sp-resets but the other things you are mentioning like -having a wardrobe or the possibility to add custom stuff in your cq should really be normal content added sometimes. it is just wiered they talk about an awesome and big addon and you have to choose from 9pants which are actually just 3 because there are 3repaints for each."
"guys come on. you can currently still buy vanity items for isk. spend 350mil buy a plex then by cloths. its not that hard. the main issue is why anyone would spend 1.2bil isk on a monocle. the big issues are game changing items should be built by players not spawned. ccp have spent years changing the markets. pi and so on.also as i said above they are just ideas you dont have to like them. but my guess is that aur is here to stay because they would have spent alot of money on the coding to get all of it to work. so now we need to find things that they can fill the store with that will add extra things to eve for the people that like shiny stuff. for those that dont and wont use cq why do you care about cloths that you will never buy anyway?"
"actually, i want to use cq, and all the features incarna has to offer. when i first heard of 'ambulation' (the name this umbrella 'feature' itself it was going by when first proposed, as you know \"ambulation\" simply means \"walking\") i was a massive supporter of the idea.i simply do not believe -additional- expense is justified for use of any of it's content. the monthly fee is progressive, and the amount paid is cumulative. content creation should be no different... otherwise, charge me once, like a normal non-mmo title, then **** off. ;)"
"do you have access to a titan? if not then you are not getting access to all the content in this game and by your logic they should give you one for free.you still have access to buy everything with isk like every other module in the game.aur is simply a method of keeping the plex prices up so that when they stamp out botting it doesnt effect the price too much.explain to me what part of the game content you wont have access too?"
"you assume i support plex either. since it (and people like you, by proxy) are using it to justify mt's in eve from the angle you are doing now... i no longer support that either.but it was a good point you made, before i regained my sanity.:p"
"a hoolah girl. i have been making it a custom to whereever i went to keep a stack of exotic dancers in my cargohold. since the ships were massive and a hoolah girl on the dashboard wasnt visible. it grew outto be a corp motto. \"never go without the dancers\" but ever since incarna we are back to the human level again. so time for a hoolah girl!"
"take out all the virtual items.lets buy real eve t shirts real eve mugs real mouse mats etc for plex or paypalturn it into an online shop"
"ship paint would be pretty awesome, but personally i would only think about buying it if it was either reusable or super cheap.personally, i would be ok with paying one dollar for ship paint if it were a one use deal. if its reusable, maybe five dollars?clothes are meaningless at the moment other than to look at by myself in the cq, so i wouldn't spend more than a dollar or two as it doesn't show off anything other than to me. increase the stuff that is being sold in the cq and allow players to interact and it might be a bit more fun, but for the moment i'm not interested in clothes at all.i like the idea of being able to dump skill points, maybe a set number of skill points for a certain price point? i have a bunch of industrial skills that i wish i could reassign to something more combat oriented. maybe do it in chunks of 100k skill points per \"package\""
"no can do. this makes too much sense. (+1)edit: this is why it makes too much sense - it's clear that the nex store is targeted for stinking rich players with too much isk on their hands. virtual monocle, real quafe t-shirt, what's the difference? these stinking rich players help offload plex from the market in either case, this act drives up plex prices and helps even more guys purchase isk with plex. ccp makes more revenue.also, rational (and irrational) people may actually purchase plex with real $$ and buy a real t-shirt, whereas only the real nut jobs will purchase a plex with real $$ to buy a monocle."
"i had this idea few weeks ago when i was trying to plan what characters i was going to have on what account, i have three accounts as of this moment.now my proposal is to allow subscribers to expand they're accounts instead of having fixed number of characters it would depend on youre subscription fee.this would also include introduction of multiple concurrent sign-ins for the same account.example:single month subscription for single accountsubscription fee ... character slots ... concurrent logins/active training queue14.95 eur ........... 3 ....................... 129.90 eur ........... 6 ....................... 244,85 eur ........... 9 ....................... 3this would not cost more then having multiple accounts (could even introduce a small discount for players with multiple accounts, thus favoring vets and really dedicated players). and this would not give any advantages over having multiple accounts except you can more easily choose what characters you can log in to.example: player with two accounts and six characters.nowaccount ... characters ........ concurrent logins/active training queue1 ............. a, b, c .............. 12 ............. d, e, f ............... 1problem: character a and b can never be online at the same time.proposalaccount ... characters ............. concurrent logins/active training queue1 ............. a, b, c, d, e, f ...... 2now you can have any combination of two characters logged in at the same time.p.s. hope my \"tables\" above are understandable, i don't know how to make proper tables on these forums, didn't try html, do these forums support html tags ? please advice if you know :)edit:forgot training"
"+1 support"
"as much as (or more than) anyone, i would love to see the hype as a drone juggernaut. especially since hybrids--or at least the gally line-up's ability to use them--is subpar compared to the other gun systems.does this mean i think the hype should become this drone boat? i want to say yes, but i don't know. i do know that the eve community will very likely not support it simply because it's different. that's fine, change isn't supposed to be easy.however, if you're really trying to make a proposal that people will get behind, do so in a way that doesn't make them feel uncomfortable with 'different' ideas. e.g. changing the gunnery or repair bonus to something else somewhat related. in that way, it will be better able to fulfill the role it's designed for (and why people bought it). and hell, might as well throw in a role bonus for drone speed or webber-drone strength to compliment it's supposed role as a blaster ship. but then people will say, \"no way. just fix hybrids.\"the problem then comes back to hybrids (which aren't going to get fixed any time soon)...and around and around we go."
"well it doesn't have to be a drone juggernaut. it just needs to have a specific role and unique flavor. right now its just a very expensive ship that doesn't get used much because its semi-mediocre. i just want the ship to become something interesting. my drone idea is just one of many that have passed through the forums. i think we need to at least throw some numbers around to get a feel for the ideas available and feasible. my drone control unit idea has a fair share of complications, however i think it just needs a bit more to make it worth the extra 45-50 mil in comparison to a megathron."
"+1 supporti agree its a bit of a damp squib in the \"what the heck is so special about it\" stakespersonally i think it should have bonuses towards pvpdomi is widely used for pve and very good at it as well. mega is competant for pve + pvp but not outstandi"
"i think the poor ability is partially to the slot layouts of the ships.the hyper for being a armor rep ship has pathetically low number of low slots, bump it up to 7, and keep the same number of mid slots.it does seem odd that the domino (best tier 1 bs) has the most utility slots of all of them, most lows and mediums, i would bump up the numbers for the other ships so they are at least equal or surpassing the low tier ship.but drone boat hyper, what would be the reason of the dominix then? too redundant. maybe make the mega a ship with a mwd bonus, or a missile boat."
"how about keep the hype the same but give it another lowslot"
"i like the idea of adding another low slot.in reply to the comment on why since we have the dominix, i think the dominix is a low-tier ship anyway. it costs a third of what the hyperion costs, i would like to say that that enormous extra cost is enough to warrant a better drone boat. i understand it would directly conflict with it, but if you made the hyperion's drone count sensitive to battleship skill, it means the dominix would be used by those who don't want to train battleship v, then the hyperion would be made more useful the more levels you have. if you get the numbers right on the ship and whatnot, i bet you could easily make it better and still fair."
"i, honestly, think it needs a higher maximum speed or an ab bonus. if we consider the megathron a toned-down vindicator, the hyperion should be the poor man's machariel. it could be a wonderful neutron blaster boat... if it could ever get in range."
"honest question i asked myself: why is hyperion so cool and rokh so bad?"
"edit for emphasis: rtfp"
"no more lies"
"i'm with khamelean. i'm not an alt of a dev, i don't work for cpp, i just play the game. this is an alt i rarely use, just training skills.all i know for a fact is, with incarna, this new noble store shows up and i can buy clothes for my space barbie at an outrageous price. then this leaked newsletter shows up, and everyone treats it like it's the eve game plan. the presentation on eve news was extremely propaganda worthy, only taking a few pieces of the newsletter and the general tone of the piece is for you to be against what is, at this point, purely speculation.everyone take it down a notch until there is real proof that this is the direction that cpp is going down. then we can all quit en-masse if this is true."
"everybody lies!mt is the way forward to attract new players to an otherwise stale and dated game before the game kicks the bucket. it's called boost in trade speak. it's a money grab before the end. the end being potentially a couple of years out once the mt sales die down. that's the reality of the situation."
"i dont care what eve is planning, i dont care if it will be ****ed up. i have all faith in ccp that they will make the right descisions on how to make eve better. all those protesters are banned becouse they repeated an offense, a ban or a gag of 4 hours should be considered a warning.if eve will be ****ed up, alot of people leave. if it wont, many more people will join.the council should make sure that the voice of the people will be heard by ccp.all those people are afraid that their favourite game will be gone. if 2000 people are demonstrating, they are not showing hate against aurum, they are showing love for the game as it is now."
"i found this:"
"+1 i m support this !"
"dam rong button pls delite!"
"you can just turn of the station environment.no lag, just a pretty picture."
"yeah, my blindness was epic, proposal was out there already*sorry*- the door - was a temp fix for the multiboxers, would love tosee a permanent fix.( and it seems to requere a very little efford from programming side )rp value / emersion would stay intact , the only change what is made thatyou volenteerly leave your pod, instead of getting automatic kicked out of it."
"yes, this makes sense to me from both a performance perspective and an rp/immersion perspective too.the npe could still start in the cq then move on to either the hangar view/in space. undocking directly from the cq should be an option, as should switching back and forth between the cq and hangar view (e.g. via a 'leave pod'/'enter pod' button). you could even make the pod on the cq balcony interactive so it's possible to enter it from there...o7mag"
"i can live with this. i could even live with a variant of the old 'do not load station environment' mode, where a pic of the current ship was shown, as the non-cq setting. maybe something akin to the incarna splash screen.i typically run 3-4 clients. running cq on all of them is imo not an option."
"+1 ( i dont like to be forced to use something i cant use )they already forced me to make a face for my main characters, it took me 2 hours to finish then. my geforce 6200 just cant handle it.===============================================yes i want the o"
"ship spinning back or a image of your ship so you can easily see what you are flying if you are flipping between clients."
"/signed as in the other threads about this same thing"
"agreed again.btw guys, how hard is it to spell hangar properly?"
"i support thispro tip to ccp: this would reduce the heat on cq performance \"problem\" by great deal while you work on it. i for one think cq's performance is quite impressive for first version, i know and understand that this is only a small portion of \"walking-in-station\" and it will take time to release and tweak it."
"good idea spacing :) lets hope the dumbasses up there in iceland learn to get a clue"
"+1 please make cq and walking in stations optional."
"i, personally, don't like the idea of docking, leaving ship, leaving capsule and dressing just to drop loot into my hangar and then undress, enter capsule and reconnect to the ship"
"qft"
"if so, can you find out if they plan on making the mac client windows equivalent anytime soon?what about at least squashing bugs? or answering bug reports, i have plenty in for them to respond to.have fun, iceland should be beautiful this time of year"
"bump because everyone hates macs and they suck"
"i endorse this topic"
"on twitter he's @trebor_csmnot only a 'mac guy' but he wrote one of the first mac games and more."
"people play video games on macs?"
"the problemccp's only source of income is eveinstead of focusing development on a top notch independent and unique quality product, ensuring organic and sustainable growth, greed took over: first impossible to meet subscription targets were set and failed, second alternative projects were consideredccp now has two ambitious projects on the forge (wod and dust)both projects have independent financing needs and put a strain on ccp, forcing the company to take larger steps than it's legsinvestment is being derailed from eve to finance these other venues and recent expansions have suffered from this (unfixed bugs, half finished features, un addressed gameplay concerns and several blunders)ccp is using eve as a milking cow / golden goose to finance other risky venuesthere is no evidence that both wod and dust will be successfulif these projects are commercially worthy, finding external financing should not be a problemin a mixture of over ambition and paying to much attention to fotm trends in the gaming business world, ccp has somehow lost track of the core original nature that made the company and eve succesfullthis internal management decision making shift has affected the relationship between ccp and it's customersproposalccp should make an internal shift back to it's roots, it's current reality and it's original identity as a companyccp should make sure eve gets the proper investment levels to advance and further develop the gameccp should stop searching for other ways to further increase revenue streams from eve, instead abandon or delay other secondary and unrelated projectsccp should stop bleeding eve players for money in ways harmful to current gameplay fundamentals, specifically:announcing a clear policy on microtransactions that prevents the sale of non vanity itemsremoving all immersion breaking relationships between aurum and in game items (plex/isk/etc) - dollar/euro/aurum/beans for monocle is ok, monocles costing more than a dreadnaught is stupid (no problem if they are expensive as long as no direct relation with in game stuff)ccp should work with the csm on a long term todo list of things to be fixed/implemented in eve, with deadlines and showing serious commitment to the gamethis list should be announced to the community and it's implementation monitored by the csm"
"hi there csm,i won't state the obvious about the recent termoil eve has seen but simply wish to bring a thread to your attention for the up comming sumit.there are now some 15+ pages of support for the issues i've compiled into a consice list as raised by the community to be put to ccp for them to address.as you are all going to the extraordinary meeting i thought it may be a useful resource for you given the thread has been extremely constructive with little to no rage/emo/trolling:"
"hello,i believe the csm is fully aware of all the issues involving gameplay (mt, 99$ dev fee, etc) and will come to a compromise with ccp that more-than-half satisfies all around. but while this is going on, don't forget the people who fought to keeping eve what it should be and were banned for it. one of these people has a reputation as being helpful on the forums, and there is another possibly too. these should be un-banned and even given a free month.i cannot speak objectively about hellicity. so i will beg you to evaluate the facts and come to your own conclusion, but to please consider them.hellicity organized hulkageddon which caused noobs to leave eve, and they were often the sort of casual people with a sense of humor i liked to play with, as well as i'm sure impacting ccp's bottom line. i am the organizer of greifergeddon, the point of which was to show these noobs that eve had a place for them after all. now all the people i talk to in my corp... the people i created greiefegeddon for... say it's good that hellicity is banned. they can do just fine without hellicity and me making drama all over the server. but on an entirely selfish level,i miss hellicity, and i want him/her back. hulkageddon forced me to confront it and grow as a result, and i even discovered to my great amazement that i was capable of enjoying pvp -- provided i was still in a hulk mining veldspar when the gankers all blow up around me. in all, hulkageddon added to my gameplay. i now think hulkageddon was a poor example of sandbox play but a potent symbol that players control the game, not ccp. (and now i have an answer to \"why doesn't ccp do something about this?\" because the alternative chases out bigger and better sandbox players.)now, if you look at the facts, smacktalk, like in this video has been part of eve for a long time, and often directed by carebears toward pirates. it at times gets out of hand and actually, i have to say smack talk is the main reason i avoid pvp.if ccp wants to take an issue -- and a consistent issue -- with threats to someone out-of-game i think i would honestly welcome it. many of these situations can benefit from a gm reminding people that it's just an internet space ship.however, it is very unfair for someone who probably did the only good deed toward the community of his life to be punished for some smack talk that is only a fraction as harsh as what goes on in that sphere of the eve universe on a constant basis.in conclusion, in addition to lobbying for all the known issues we all know about, i think the csm should after a consensus has been reached that benefits eve as a whole, revalaute the role of the people who have been banned in their efforts to prevent ccp from sneaking gold amo in without us noticing. hellicity maybe a separate case but i admit i am more motivated to post this by hellicity than the others who are probably more deserving of being un-banned, but whom i don't know because i generally avoid the forums. p.s. -- can u make the mining lazers a bit thicker? i cant see them on a corp mining op so nothing to screen shot.again, this is my personal opinion about hellicity, and at odds with that of the people i care about. (edit 4 spelling n grammer)"
"this proposal comes in two parts, with the second highly dependent on the first.proposal part 1 - vanity items should be destructible. if you are in your pod and your pod is vaporized, then so are your sexy new jeans. you lose implants, you lose the monocle, the jeans, the boots .. all of it. if they release a gold plated abbadon, i am sure that it will be destructible, so the same should go to other vanity items.reasoning: vanity items are meant to serve two purposes, isk sink for players with billions of isk and nothing better to do and a cash income for ccp. if vanity items are persistent then the available market will soon dry up. make the item destructible and you open up the chance for people to buy an item, lose it and have to buy it again. if not, you are plugging the sink.just to bring up the pixels/rl paradigm that ccp loves... i bought my wife an lv diary, a small luxury item, but still far more expensive that my wage bracket. within 12 months, she lost it. also think about the guys that buy porches, ferrari's and lambos and wrap them around a tree. luxury items can be destroyed and need to be replaced in real life, so why not treat pretty pixels the same?proposal part 2 - put vanity items on kill mails (pods only) vanity items should be rare, so if i pod someone wearing a monocle, there will be a big fat bonus in the kill mail. sure.. the flimsy little thing is destroyed and i can't use it (vanity items never drop only pop) but the kill mail looks pretty. at the same time .. add implants as well. its been requested for a long time, so now is the time to make it happen.reasoning: eve is a sand box and adding vanity items to kill mails will be part of the fun - i can see a future game, similar to hulkageddon having a \"1 billion isk prize to first kill that includes a vanity item\". these are rare items and if you are silly enough to lose one then people will be sharing the link to your fail kill mail for years to come. it will be part of the game.techo bit:issue: ccp has stated that since pod death means that a toon is instantly teleported to a new clone, and that kill mails are generated a few processing cylces later, they cant tell what implants were lost as the clone that \"died\" no longer exists when the kill mail is generated. i am certain that the same resoning will stand for vanity items.solution: similar to an orca having an \"ore bay\", give pods a \"vanity bay\". the vanity bay is not accessible nor seen by players, only by internal code routines. as soon as a pod is created, a copy of all implants and vanity items are loaded into the vanity bay. if the pod is destroyed, all items in the vanity bay drop just like any other cargo (i am ok with 100% destruction of these rather than 50/50 drop/destroy - the stuff is unique and fragile). if the player enters a new vessel (exits pod) then those items are either removed from the pod, or junked along with the pod's 64 bit item id."
"you know, i just might accept non-vanity mt items, if we get to destroy them along with their owners. however i still think non-vanity items out of thin air are too destabilizing to the economy and player achievement to work at all."
"matches my own views so ccp please look into this."
"so they would give no tactical advantage, they would cost real money and they could be destroyed at any time? might as well just throw your money in a fire. who would use them? you might get a couple of people who are super keen to show off how wealthy they are, but how long would they really keep that up?"
"i agree. i would not use the vanity stuff... you would not use the vanity stuff, but you can be sure that someone will. so why not have it listed on a kill mail? if its in the game, make it a part of the game."
"everything in eve is expensive and takes time to get the ammount of isk needed even if you can buy it via plex it's either lots of rl money or time. everything in eve gets destroyed and will get destroyed in a mater of moments. why make it different. i'm sure that way the apparatus items can get cheaper but then people would buy more. it will make you think more to make your pod survive also it will make you think even more if you want to suicide clone to another place. it has to be risk vs. reward. that was why i started to play eve that will keep many other playing and investing time. alot of time and patience."
"rule 1 - anything that can be bought with real money must also be able to be purchased with isk. there should be no part of the game that cannot be accessed by players who aren't willing to pay more than their monthly subscription fee. as long as rmt goes through the noble exchange store this should continue to be the case.rule 2 - items added the noble exchange must not compete with items on the regular market. player sellers should not have to compete with ccp for the isk of player buyers.as far as i can tell, anything that falls within these limit will not \"break\" the game. if anyone can think of a scenario that this would not cover, feedback is welcome :)"
"please post in relevant threads rather than starting a new thread.e.g. here"
"cos seriously, the load time is getting horrendous.this is mainly an issue for those living inside wormholes, where you bring in some modules to switch out with your ship etc. over time, you end up with more and more items, until you get to the point where hangers take a noticeable time to load (and no, i'm discounting bookmarks).point 1 is it's annoying and there's no reason why not to do it game-play wise.point 2 is it might be worth checking the server load that it generates to have 120 items instead of a stack of 1, i'm not an expert in any way, but it might be a saving."
"real money -> plex -> isk -> shiny stuff = okreal money -> plex -> aur -> shiny stuff = not ok.the distinction may be small, but here it is. in the current version, all the shiny stuff is produced/built in eve. plex is only used as a way to get isk to get that stuff. we do not want a system where plex/aur can be traded directly to ccp for exclusive, game altering content, even if those things could then later be sold on the market."
"the above is entirely correct.also, some of the things that were proposed for aurum, are not purchasable with isk - like hangar slots or faction standings."
"i completely see what you guys are saying and, belive me, don't disagree... but what's the difference? yes, faction standings, skill rempas, hangars, etc. could alter and unbalance the game. but would it really be any worse than the current impact of plex?if there's a faction or corp war, and one player pumps unlimited funds into buying fleets of superships, whose side is going to win? i heard an in-game discussion the other night about someone that spent $15k to win a war. extreme example, but it can happen. i'm not taking the side of ccp nor the side of everyone who is so against these changes. i personally don't really care either way, because as far as the balance and fairness issues go, i don't see how this is going to make things any worse than than plex already could."
"the problem is that you magically conjure ships out of nothing with aur. if you need to use isk there has to be someone supplying those ships, so you cannot just get infinite amounts of them anywhere you want.at the moment you buy a plex, go to jita, sell plex, buy ships. someone had to mine the minerals and take the time to haul, produce and research the blueprints. while the supply is large, it's not unlimited. sooner or later the plex prces will drop and the ship prices rise.if you could exchange the plex to aur to ships, no industrials could get their share devaluating the industrial gameplay. you could also go to null deep behind enemy lines with no logistics in place and be able to wage war effectively with magical ships popping out of nowhere."
"as long as items on the nex don't compete with items in the regular market, i would be happy. for example i have no problem with trading in a ship already built by players plus aurum to get a visually customised hull back. this won't effect other players in any way except getting them more exciting when they get to blow me up."
"i hate to sound like a negative jerk, but i personally would not trust just the csm and ccp devs to work this situation out. therefore, i propose the idea that we, the community, demand that three well respected, non csm, non ccp, experienced, and active members of our community go to participate in these talks, with transportation and lodging provided by ccp.these individuals are pillars of our community, and in my humble opinion, have helped shape eve, in the game, and on the forums.these upstanding individuals being:chribbaliang nurenakita ti believe these members would keep the csm and the \"fine\" ccp reps honest, by an wealth of respect from the community, pull in game, and the knowledge/ability to put to voice the concerns i would argue the entire community shares, barring an incredibly slim few.i know i am rather unknown on the forums, but i have been jerked out of lurking to post this out of sheer concern, concern for the game i love, that we all love.regards-migrator soul"
"since hilmar is still probably flush from his 52 first-day monocle sales, i don't see why they can't afford bringing in 3 -additional- moderators to this very important discussion. right now, the exta 'transparency' during the talks (guaranteed by gaining three more available 'perspectives' on the event, and what is achieved... if anything) is probably worth more to ccp's continued bottom-line than any single suggestion or decision they could feasibly make... and follow-through with.+1"
"indeed. the monocle sales can easily foot the costs. also, i believe that it would ease quite a few community member's minds.my question is, would those members be willing to go?chribba, liang, akita, would you all be willing?if yes, then i think that would be one of the best routes to go."
"chribba"
"sounds good to me - just use the monocle sales to pay for them to go. i'm sure they'll more than cover expenses, right hilmar?"
"o that demon is the big elephant you been talking of in the room."
"from the time of anomaly's nerf to toady.how has ccp utilized the csm?have you been involved at any level?i ask because its seems like ccp tossed you into the closet and locked the door. and now pulls you out to use like some sort of damage control, t-1 at best.as for how i see it."
"when eve was young, development focused on helping players to do what they wanted to. when players began forming ad-hoc alliances, ccp introduced formal alliances. when players began using secure containers and logged off industrial pilots as supply depots in deep space, ccp introduced modular starbases. somewhere along the line, this changed and ccp began cultivating an adversarial relationship with the eve playerbase on a strategic level. eve players have shown little enthusiasm for incarna, eve gate, and other recent projects, and ccp's response has been to try to force players to use them.**i pulled this from massively.com. its very straight forward short and delivers a strong message. please keep this in mind when your in negotiations in iceland."
"hey sizzims, when your there, can you ask them about the fear of the pos coding, and if we are going to see a user-friendly pos system in the future? there is a player in the suggestions thread with a really funky looking idea of replacement pos's that seems to have gathered a lot of good reaction (over the 5 years the posts been alive) - thats just one of many options. ground up or reworking of code we dont care. anything thats not so anally micro-managed is always good too... cheers, tex."
"make it possible for ccp to fix this mess.thank you."
"replace the \"csm please...\" in the title with \"ccp please...\". and the \"ccp\" in the actual message with \"yourselves\".i'm only half joking."
"your half right.or full right? wouldnt that be left?oh god...."
"i know friend... i know.*puts arm round op's shoulder...*we're screwed."
"-cries-"
"ok. all the constructive comments/replies i'm getting from people (including other threads) have convinced me. words aren't enough it would seem.i suppose then that the rioting and threats of un-subbing are the only course of action we can take (however the really nasty and dis-respectful words/comments are not); and the cheeky manipulative voting schemes and biased information etc (which seem to have stopped or lessened) aren't cool either.go forth and riot - do what you must.i just hope it's all over soon"
"fact:please visit your user settings to re-enable images.sound familiar????no plans for mt???? welp we got it!!!"
"yep.. thanks for that.do not judge me on this but i don't think \"we do not have plans\" equals breaking a promise though. it just means they haven't followed their original plans (i'm not saying i agree with this).i agree this is disappointing and it's against what a fair amount of players wanted. however you must also understand that there are many players who don't mind it (as it hasn't affected them) and there are also players who've purchased these vanity items and are enjoying their little fashion accessories.also, plex for isk is a form of micro-transaction so if that's what you're upset with, they committed this crime a long time ago - and it works and the majority are happy with it as it allows players to run multiple accounts without paying real money and it heavily reduces all the illegal isk farmers who sell on their websites and also stops their annoying in-game advertising. cheers"
"here is a link to a thread i made a few weeks ago:read meit contains quotes and links from ccp discussing dust and it's mt based system. it also mentions how dust will tie into eve and how that tie will impact our eve. by proxy mt for advantage is already scheduled....the difference between plex for isk and full blown mt is that plex is designed for 1 thing and that is to extend game time. plex could only do that until incarna came out. plex does not allow you to bypass the player run economy, player run industry or the player run market for items. mt , even vanity only, bypasses it all. in effect mt paves over part of the sandbox.not judging you---- i agree that ccp's statement does not provide for a \"promise\" of no mt ever. companies don't just flip a switch one day and decide to change operating models. companies don't wait till the last minute to add a feature that requires modification on a massive scale (new menus, remodel existing menus,new items, new categories, new currency, new exchange system etc..) at the last minute. this is something that ccp has planned for a long time. i would be willing to wager it was on the drawing board when ccp shadow made those statement. i would also be willing to say that this change with mt was being coded 6 months or more prior to incarna's release. copmanies don't change their operating models that quicky when they reach the size that ccp has."
"vandrion in the thread you've linked above you make some fair points in your op and provide some supporting quotes.i replied to this op (and try to be both objective and realistic) and we agree to disagree. which is fine.and you're right to have fears of what may come but we must all understand that it's all just speculation ..and if ccp have any sanity and sense they won't let it happen as your fears predict.**for those of you who aren't sure what i'm talking about - what i'm referring to is regarding dust 514 and unrelated to game altering items bought directly in eve."
"the csm was not told about any of this, which is why they're able to be vocal about it. if they had signed ndas about these features they wouldn't even be able to say they weren't told."
"exactly, and they wouldn't of informed the csm beforehand, if the topic wasn't up for discussion with the playerbase. ironic then... that zulu states that the csm is being drafted on short notice, at this extremely late-stage (probably, to simply be 'told' what is going to happen from now on). it simply gives credence to the belief that the planned 2-day csm trip is merely ccp's latest move to publicly legitimize mt as an eve-acceptable concept, altogether."
"i believe the trip is just designed to cool the population down a bit, give ccp the ability to say they did something (i know. funny right?) and for them to cave a bit on pricing for tribble token items. all of this to try and lower the volumn from us rabble rousers! it has even sunk to a new low.... tons of threads are appearing praising mt and the fail that is incarna. look in the threads... these folks go silent as soon as they are challenged... i can only think of a few things that would cause this:1--trolls----- sorry, all the usual suspects are screaming about mt and incarna2--dev alts---- it has been done before....3--paid forum flunkies---- happens all the time.. companies hire pr firms to trash competitors or hype their own products...4-- kool-aid drinkers---- even these guys no better then to jump into this crap-storm....."
"firstly, they need to allow dust players (who don't play eve) a way to get items and fund their character's development so they're not owned by all the eve players - furthermore the eve players don't have to spend large amounts of isk if they don't want to.we don't know how ccp plans on doing this and controlling it so that eve isn't affected in a negative way (or no more than the current plex for isk system).due to above statements, and many replies i've read in this post, i don't feel mt in dust will be an issue - and i'm sure ccp won't allow it to have any significant impact.and yes the vanity store allows items to be magically created, rather than player generated via our player driven economy/sandbox but they're just cosmetics and they don't affect us (remaps and standings on the otherhand are debatable yet still i don't think they'll be too much of an impact).to the op.. you comment that is bold and underlined... that is speculation and i doubt ccp will allow this to happen. i.e. purchasing items in dust will likely just be (as mentioned before) just to help with pimping out characters so they're not left with the 'equivalent of a noobship' every time they die; and this won't affect eve as you so fear.thanks"
"we will have to agree to disagree on the matter tbh.gear will be purchased in dust with rl $$.dust will have a yet to be determined (at least publicly) effect on sov mechanicsdust and eve= one universe//one wardust mt will have an effect on eve and that impact no matter how minor is the crack that i feel ccp will exploit regardless of the half truths and promises that come out of the csm meeting.between himar's email and the fearless newsletter my opinion is we will have mt sooner rather then later.....i fully encourage anyone reading this post to go to the threadtitan here and read the unedited news letter and email. it is very enlightening to say the least."
"the missile launcher hard-points on ships are hard to see, also it seems odd that the ships that can have missiles and turrets just have empty space when using missiles.put a silo, or physical launcher. make it like turrets but a pod of missiles. dam the old models, just say or visualize the junks of metal that are sticking out that barely look like missile pods are something else. fix the models latter, but fix the hard-points now."
"everyone' (well, the forum majority, by far, it would seem) *is* working together mattio... you just find yourself on the 'outside' of that. on the outside, the majority would seem rather chaotic right now, but this ever-changing \"majority\" is really in the largest amount of agreement on a single topic than ever before in the history of the game."
"however it would seem that all that's happened is a massive ****storm of hatred has happened over the 'fear' that other stuff 'might' happen further down the track.we've made our point. we've been heard.now we must accept the little fashion accessories (which many player have already purchased and are using), (oh and not to mention that the people who're on the forums are in fact a minority compared to the amount of people who're playing the game right now) - as i was saying, we've created a fuss/fud and we've been heard.all we can do now is demand that they keep their word on having the store be for vanity/cosmetic items only and perhaps discuss alternatives/solutions... enough with the counter-productive, unpleasant behavior."
"no."
"i've been thinking about why i find mt acceptable for non-functional items but not otherwise.i don't think eve can let players buy non-vanity items because it is both a game and a world. it has rules and structure like a game, but is also a sandbox where everything is part of a single connected whole.compare this with, say, a bioware game or a story-driven mmo. those are \"games\" but not \"worlds\". in those setting, being able to \"buy your way forward\" in a story line, or being able to buy more story, makes sense. for multiplayer portions of those games, i suspect that mt will be tolerated exactly to the extent that it doesn't offer a significant pvp advantage. eve on the other hand is all pvp - even the pve and industrial parts are inextricably tied up with the large-scale pvp warfare.on the other hand, compare eve with something like second life, which is a single \"world\" but not a \"game\". there is no pretence that it is anything other than forum for social expression - there is no game balance to wreck. i think eve would benefit from tools for social expression, but not at the cost of breaking the game."
"i'd like this, but it wouldnt endanger csm... csm gets in on the upcoming expansions early.a survey in game now would be \" do you use cq\"a csm question would be \"when we integrate dust how many minerals do u think this this and this should cost to build, also should we add skills to make dust equipment\""
"1. scrap the current system of aurum, and allow aurum to be purchased directly in packs - 1,000, 2,000, 4,000, etc.2. drastically lower prices for clothing and all current items3. introduce limited-run blueprints that we can manufacture with pi goods, using pi manufacturing nodes, which can be purchased with aurum4. allow plex to be purchased via aurum, not the other way around5. allow aurum packs to be purchased via isk - 500; 1,000; 1,500; 2,000; 2,500...essentially i'm stealing the microsoft model with their credits system. by purchasing in packs, you are often buying more than you need, and unless you want to, you aren't purchasing way more credits than you really need.right now, if i purchased aur with plex, i've blown $35, and let's be honest most of us will gladly spend $5 or $10 on a whim, but $35 for some reason just doesn't justify in-game items right now. for god's sake - there's a recession going on.lowering the entrypoint will allow more people to get used to the idea of purchasing vanity items. also, the market of eve doesn't suffer because there will be items hitting the market that have been created using the blueprints. while the blueprints themselves are purchased for a bulk amount, that bulk amount ends up far cheaper than purchasing the singular item directly, and allows the capsuleer to profit in game currency. for instance, if you purchased a blueprint for pants for $35, that blueprint has a limited run of 150. this allows the capsuleer to get back their initial investment plus make a hefty profit, play the game that ccp has created, contribute to the overall industry of eve, and the pants they have created have a natural production cost and selling cost.ccp wins because people are using their mt strategy, and more people are playing eve as a result. no buy-win either."
"troll: 1regular poster: 0"
"post proof or it didn't happen."
"*shrug*perhaps. it's been known to happen.nope. i don't make a habit of rewarding laziness.troll confirmed; now applying the \"jackass\" principle."
"csm alt troll confirmed, which underlines the fact there is no evidence. the csm have made no official response here or elsewhere.they've undertaken precious little engagement with players they were elected by. they made more posts here in the one week before the election than they did in the three months since."
"well, it would help the immersion factor (like 2.) if they would not sell boots that cost more than several battleships, and refrain from any releasing any other immersion breaking content, as this is the expansion mostly roleplayers have been looking forward too, as far as i can tell.so far, the immersion breaking factors pretty much diminish the whole immersion that incarna does offer to practicly zero. and then i'm not even counting the more frequent client crashes when i'm having ic conversations."
"so, all people want to do is complain about mt? nobody has any real suggestions on how to improve the content that's already here?"
"all of these things are pretty much given but since ccp is so :smug: about incarna being the most awesome thing ever created by mankind i really doubt any of these concerns will be addressed ever since it would break their precious bubble. i hope it'll happen though (granted that ccp take a firm stance against rmt in all forms or i'm out of here)."
"1) nerf angel ships etc (anything not gallente) and faction mods so people can't buy plex then exchange for isk and buy overpowered ships/modules to gain an advantage over us peasants who have to grind for isk as well as flip burgers to pay our sub."
"just sqeeze a clear and precise answer from them to the non-vanity mt items question. don't let them get away with dodging the issue or answering with vague metaphores. if they try to dodge it, demand to know why can't they answer it. keep pressing them until they give a clear answer to you or your trip will have been a waste of time on that front. whatever their position and intentions are try to pin it down to something concrete to the best of your abilities."
"the most important issue is what they have been doing to eve. they can't possibly be proud of how eve evolved (not) lately. most resources seems to go to dust and wod, eve get minor fixes.i actually gave ccp some slack about that, as i guess many others did, but now when they start to milk eve's subscribers i simply can't tolerate it. the truth is that they overextended and now they are trying to squeeze every penny out of eve and make us pay the checks their hubris signed.ccp: don't fly what you can't afford to loose! it is time to let dust and/or wod suffer instead of eve and eve's players.i really don't care about mt prices. trolls have monocles to buy, that's about it. however, since incarna pretty much is a mt shop i think it is a bit disgusting that a whole expansion is targeting a select few players instead most of eve's playerbase. seriously. what is that about? it's like releasing ships that only swedes can buy.now when we have had a look behind the scene i am in fact against the mt shop. it is a flawed concept in eve. i will never use incarna because it is all about mt and not about the players. in incarna i get to use mt, in eve i get to use the player's market. also, it is temptation. let's face it, ccp is really, really tempted to start mting everything. that latest blog make me give them some slack, but it is pretty obvious that they will try to introduce everything they can get away with, and the goal over time is to make us accept more and more and in the end greed will break the world.ship spinning. seriously, don't mess with my ship spinning. before this fiasco, i assumed that i would use incarna from time to time but not all the time. now when i am forced into that mt closet and get a glimpse behind the ccp scene... no thank you! for me incarna is the symbol for mt greed. it is all about mt. no thank you, let me keep giving you my money to play spaceships instead.ccp, you need to fix your own house. take some time to think through what the eve players have been given for their money these last few years. take a look where the resources are ending up (i would not mind if you released that info for us to see) and ponder where eve will go in the future. in know you have this vision about a fantastic virtual world where you have peoples, cities and whatever, but that is however far in the future. a map to how to get those things is important. this includes fixing communication and cooperation inside ccp as well."
"i know the summit is concentrating on mt but the issues revolving around incarna as i see them1. confirm no plans now or in the future for mt that bring advantage to the player - be it sp, remap or \"golden ammo\"2. confirm that such items as the golden scorpion will be released either as a bpc (preferable) or in a part exchange deal3. return of the hanger view with the option to exit into the captains quarters with an option to start in captains quarters4. considerable amount of performance optimization is needed in cq - both generally and for multi clients. inclusion of seperate graphics set ups for in station and in space5. nex store prices are excessive and should either be reduced or more budget ranges introduced soon. surely better to sell from a financial point of veiw 100 items at $1 than 1 item at $606. functionality of cq needs to be expanded on rapidlly if its going to be of any interest at all, introduction of the other station interiors for variety is needed"
"pre incarna **** storm that are still brokenmissions- jamming in missions has become intolerable, it can take over an hour to do a gurista mission simply because your jammed all day. reduce all chances of npc jams be 50% at least as well as reducing number of jamming ships in all missions1 captains quarters - simply put, we want old hanger view with an option go to cq, we dont care how or why but cq is laggy on most machines, overheats others and just isnt as functional as old hanger2 mt future - the only thing in the eve world u should be able to buy is ship skins. no weapons, modules, or really anything that would change how the game is played. vanity items are the only thing that can be sold. in the wis world u can sell objects for rooms, clothes, other avatar accessories.these two are the most important to us. regarding the first one, it looks like some of the csm think that a simple option not to load station environment will do the trick. they couldn't be more wrong. old ship spinning hanger is non-negotiable"
"realistically that battle is lost - better to draw up secondary battle lines to limit its impact"
"bring back the hanger.we know you have spent a lot of time making cq but forcing people to use it isnt the way forward"
"i know ccp has been pushing for new ways to use micro transactions as other companies have success with them and i'm fine with that as everyone needs to try new things and adapt to the market, rather than yelling at ccp about it though i would like to give suggestions cuz i know it will happen and better to embrace and shape it than cry about it.now i am only going off of rumors but one that sparked a huge conversation in my vent server was selling skill points. we all talked about it and felt it was a bad idea but we also recognize you already sell skill points through the character bazaar and thus if it had to happen through the new system we agreed maybe it would be ok for a training multiplier so you could train at like 1.5x faster or something for x amount. everyone would hate it i bet but you know everyone would do it which we laughed at.another personal topic i have been pushing for is character name changing for 1 character per account. after the characters name was changed all people who have that character on their contact list would receive a email stating what the name was change to... if you pose the argument that characters hold your reputation, i disagree to the fact that you can trade characters and your reputation is not your own anymore and that name means nothing anymore. i have traded 3 characters and its so easy to shed a identity that i can't see the problem with renaming 1 character per account. the link to the topic i have been posting in was made by another but it has support. name changing topic"
"yeah right i'm sure ccp would like the csm to inform them on the players opinions on these issues.i can't wait for ccp to tell us what a productive meeting it was. and how the csm is really an invaluable tool for them to understand the players position. surely due to the hard efforts of the csm ccp will commit \"x\" which they were going to commit to anyway given the outrage on the forums. but whatever have the volunteer pr squad (csm) come out to claim credit. that way ccp can talk about how they really listen to their playerbase via the csm and its not just a sham pr stunt."
"this omfg, this.indestructible mt clothing items set a very bad precedent. where do you draw the line? would mt vanity ships be reimbursed upon destruction? would mt uber guns in dust be refunded upon death? can we not see how this destroys the sandbox?also:free helicity, liang, and the others who were banned to bring all of this to fruition. assuming the csm meeting gets ccp back on track, these heroes will have actually done ccp a favor. ccp just won't realize it until after the first 50,000 $2 miniskirt sales."
"there are a lot of micro transaction games that just spam advertisements over their deals that they're having. frankly it gives me a headache playing them and is a turn off and one of the reasons i avoid mt games. frankly i would hope that eve online doesn't just put advertisements everywhere. i pay a subscription to ccp to avoid commercials like i pay netflix to watch movies and shows without commercials!"
"i know what you mean. i'm the kind of girl that will walk out of your store, if you pester me with whatever's on sale. i go in to get what i want, then get out. don't bother me with crap."
"tbh i dont care if the billboards in game were sold off as adevertising space for revenue. ccp are clearly in desperate need of cash and if selling billboard space to coke or sony or whoever doesnt bother me, i can filter that out of my in game experience like i do when i watch tv(yes im over 35 so i do actually still watch it)however what i want to know from ccp isdo you plan any non vanity items for aur?"
"good suggestion."
"what a ****. folks this person represents the p2w individuals that hilmar wants."
"mine:"
"that's a problem.you're not even all using the same way of doing things.from what i saw mittens is posting his stuff on some public goons placethe only csm i saw posting often on o-forum is whitetree, and we didn't saw him these last days.add your twitter also, as it seems lots of you are using it a lot.but decide on one way to get each of you, and make it clear.just ask yourself this question : \"how can the community know what we are doing ?\"you'll see the answer is currently hard."
"thanks, although i had your three. mention to your cohorts that theirs would be appreciated also."
"i didn't include the others' because i seriously don't know if they have one.trebor and i also have been posting a lot (mostly in devblog comments threads and in thread in the general section, but in other places as well). you can also find me answering questions in-game.if you follow #tweetfleet, you'll find seleene's and mitten's. i don't tweet. hell, before this i didn't even blog :p"
"i know meissa, it's just to make you see we are lost.i have even opened a twitter account and registered to ponies forum only to follow these things... cause some csms use these.currently we are all raging at how ccp is bad at communication, but here's you're also bad :pyou said a few times csm6 were all agreeing on tons of things, add the way you communicate please :)how can the crowd trust you when they can't follow what you're doing ?the crowd is saying that you communicate more recently, but it is because you do, or that you always did it, but currently have more people relaying the places to check ? i don't even know... cause it's hard to check."
"well, all that i wanted to point out - this is not just microtransactions rage, this is a cumulative effect. all this changes is a threat to the current players virtual goods and skills value, something players are investing their time and money. it's a threat to their safety.so what players are basically ask for is guaranties for their safety."
"itt:the mob: the csm should quit! *rabblerabblerabble*the csm: we won't quit!the mob: the csm shouldn't quit *rabblerabblerabble*"
"they should not quit. what an insane idea.this is the moment they can make ccp understand that they need csm, as well as showing us that they can make a difference. i had pretty much ignored csm as a pr stunt up until now, however... now there is an opportunity to make csm into what it should be.good luck csm :)"
"if the csm quite nothing would change one iota.not saying the csm going will change any thing though."
"csm obviously shouldn't quit before their trip to ccpland. but, if it becomes apparent that ccp is going to push through regardless of csm input, then the entire csm resigning simultaneously could have an impact.maybe not the desired impact, but it would have one. (likely it would spawn another round of articles - possibly expanding to news organizations outside of the gaming arena)if i were on the csm, i'd probably resign. the argument about possibly being able to change things from within more than from without doesn't actually mean anything if you can't change what's truly important. (i.e. all the talk about theoretically being able to change game mechanics pales next to being impotent about the creation of a new currency in the game)"
"10 go to iceland20 have emergency summit with ccp30 go home, write minutes40 have nda check by ccp50 * press play on tape *60 goto 10run"
"it would appear you are all on drugs.pay2win was introduced with plex. i am astonished that such a fuss is being kicked up when we all already allowed credit card pvp into the game a long time ago.rmt, better ccp get the money yada yada yada *yawn*i do indeed support the fact that in a store something should not be magically spawned. i do indeed understand that when you sell a plex you get isk someone, somewhere, has earned.all of these arguments make sense. truly they do.what does not make sense is that everyone is raging about paying real life money in order to get an ingame advantage. i feel like i am taking crazy pills(i didn't actually invent the piano key necktie though i wish i had)ninja edit. csm should not quit over an issue that is confusing enough for me to seek out zoolander clips."
"add any vanity item you want to nex.add pets as well if you want!do not re-add features that we used to have, take them from us, and then charge us aurum for them (eg ship fittings)"
"i dont think any gun, ship or anything should buffed nerfed or any outside effect introduced as balancing. races are not equal. lately there is huge effort to bring symmetry to this game. creating static balance with obvious strategies will destroy eve most uniq characteristic.leave races alone, leave ships , alone. create dynamic balance with new items and features. we dont live in balanced world. lets nerf us airforce planes and balance with italian airforce. so they be in balance. please leave eve realisticplease stop these stupid ideas and leave this game alone. minmatar was warrior race and it has to be stay like that. it was worst mistake in this game to delete racial diffrences."
"you sir, know nothing about fitting ecm ships or using torps.max skills, 1089dps, permajam on any subcap without eccm, and cap stable unless you run the mwd and/or smartbomb. it can be fit with different rigs and a zmt3000 implant to get 1255 dps. its only vulnerability is to large drones. so get yer jams on quick.widow solo bs hunter-killer.lows:3x cn bcs1x utility low (i prefer a pds ii for more cap/shield/fitting. but you could go dc ii, 4th bcs, speed/agility mod, or meta 4 sda for better jams.)mids:4x hypnos multispec ecm1x meta 4 tp1x t2 warp disruptor1x quad lif booster rockets1x sensor booster ii w/scan res script (can be replaced with a webber or warp scrambler ii)highs:5x t2 seige missile launchers w/inferno rage torps1x improved cloaking device ii1x large notos explosive chargerigs:large warhead flare catalystlarge particle dispersion augmentordrones:5x hornet ec-3005x hammerhead iino implants required. but if you want some more dps you can invest in a zmt type implant to increase you raw dps. couple fitting points: obviously for solo work you need a warp disruptor/scrambler of some kind. that means close in work. so the range bonus of racial ecms is useless. also, the cumulative jam chance with 4 multispecs is better against a single target than if you had a rainbow rack. tp is great because it takes that 450m signature radius of a bs and pumps it to 650, which is just what your explosion radius is with rage torps. your flare rig brings the explosion velocity to just about 100m/s, which is just about the top velocity of most bs. the sebo is to compensate for the slower lock time due to the cloaking device and let you get your jams on before they can lock you and send out drones. the smartbomb can kill a flight of medium t2 drones within the buffer of its shields. if you want, you can swap the sebo for a webber or warp scrambler. but tbh, its a pain to get in range of a web/scram with a widow, even with the cloak. medium drones for extra dps, and small ecm drones if the shiznit hits the fan and you need to gtfo."
"i love freckled redheads <3"
"i believe that quallity is way better than quantity"
"i think eve needs to spend an expansion cycle or 5 on fixing and polishing the exsiting content which would give them an even more shiny base to add their new content. i remember a time before the devs complained about how many lines of code they had to change to make something work in their new dev blogs."
"a lot of what i'm going to say has already been said, but i'm going to do a little speech on capitals.carriers have always been (in my mind at least) the best bridge between capitals and sub-caps. they are vulnerable to sub-cap fleets, can kill them, and are of course useful in capital fleets. carriers are good where they are in general (even if a couple of them need tweaking).dreads currently are for hitting stationary or near stationary targets. this actually makes sense to me, especially since they must enter siege mode to even out-damage a bs (or even some bc). at 4k dps, dreads make good heavy hitters. they're not brokentitans are (now) relatively balanced. after the removal of remote dd and aoe dd, titans have a very good place at the top of the capital field. their dd is now balanced, their other damage (if people so choose to fit) is respectable, their ehp is understandably enormous, and their support abilities are valued enough to be used.the weak link is supercarriers. first of all, why can't they dock? they're not really that much bigger than carriers. for the insane price inflation of supercarriers over carriers, you'd think they'd be bigger. either make them physically larger, or dockable. this is just a minor concern however, and is not the real issue. supercarriers in numbers are almost invulnerable to everything but other supercarrier fleets. this just begins a \"who has more supers\" race, and whoever wins the race, wins the battle. this is stupid. why should eve's multi-layerd, almost infinitely complex combat system come down to who has more ships? one of the inherent problems here is that the eve veterans have been getting fat off of countless sources of income including moon goo that most players will never see. the top tier players can then afford to field many, many supercaps. there is way more isk being made than destroyed, and that needs to change to fix 0.0 warfare. a supercarrier's abilities don't necessarially need a huge nerf, there are a couple things that would fix this problem.first of all, their immunity to electronic warfare is much too powerful. it made sense when there were very few on the field, but they've gotten out of hand. as much as old players will whine about me saying this, supercarriers need to die more. the rarer the best ships are, the more accessable 0.0 warfare will be to newer players. as much as i would hate my supers dying more often, eventually we must realize that eve will hit a critical mass so to speak. too much old money and assets in the game will mean that it will become increasingly difficult for new players to make it. players should be prepared to choose in the coming years between keeping playing a game they love, and losing a few more supers.something else that would help solve this would be a new damage dealer/anti capital - capital ship. the dread is a good damage dealer already for pounding installations, and stationary capitals (even if at the moment supers can do it better).there are two ways to go about this: 1) make a dread-esque super cap (imho a bad idea since there are already titans and dreads, and would basically all but obsolete dreads)2) make a sort of fleet defensive capital ship that provides an umbrella of safety against supercarriers. how i think this would easily be done is essentially have the ship target and engage the supercarrier, but instead of directly affecting the supercarrier, it effects the supercarrier's fighter bombers in some way, mitigating their damage, disrupting their uplink to the supercarrier itself, etc. being able to kill flights of fighter bombers might be a bit overpowered (especially if you consider how expensive they are), but i actually think that 'disrupting their uplink' would be a very good way of doing it. in fact, it could be brought to sub-capital warfare in general as well for specialized ship classes.additionally i think there should be a way to destroy outposts. i'm out of characters though."
"@foz: what you are suggesting with the cyno mass requirement sounds very similar to the wormhole mass limitations. it is one of the reasons why w-space is much more friendly towards small corps and alliances, namely that there are limits to the amount of "
"the idea of wh mass limits was kind of what i was after with the cynos as in a sci-fi universe it would make sence for th wh's and jump drives to work the same.in regards to the cyno idea itself, the masses are just off the top of my head but you can see the direction im going in and im sure ccp could find a way to make it work.dreads are broken, if they arent then they would be used more. i tried to give them a more heavy hitter vs supers mroethan structures idea in my post but i can see how maby its a little ott.as for gallente the balance is in the hybrids. increase the rails damage by around 15-20% and your good and increase blasters range by the same but to compensate maby a 5% reduction in dps.with that gallente ships could still have non-laughable long-mid range dps while not having loler short blasters with a range that requires you to sit on theto be effective."
"i feel that capitals are fine. gallente carriers and super carriers are good. their sub caps need a boost. super caps need a nerf and somehow need to become difficult to build. there are too many out there."
"just my 2 cents:1. gallente needs a serious rework, ships/bonuses/hybrids the whole bunch2. caldaris poor hybrid ships need some love too while at it3. minmatar need a bit of nerfing (eg restriction of dmg types for starters)3a. dont forget to hammer the angels back in line, dramiel im looking at u4. dreads need some love to counter the hordes of scs5. ew ships in general could use some rework6. bring that tengu back in lineps: changes to the jumpdrive mechanic would be a sure way to balance all those cap hotdrops. 90% arrive in the right system (10% in the surrounding ones)50% of those at the beacon, rest randomly all over the systempreferably with getting rid of those cynos as they are a joke in the 1st place."
"one (imho) huge problem with 0.0 is afk cloakers. somebody can essentially go in a good moneymaking system, cloak, go afk, and come back at intermittent points during the day to look for people to gank. this severely inhibits some operations. something that would fix this would be to make cloaked ships prob-able. now i don't mean that they would be just as easy to probe as other ships, but the cloak could make their signal strength almost zero, require specialized probes, etc. it should take much longer to scan them down, but still possible. as it stands, you can disrupt an entire system with one character who isn't even at their pc. this is just as unfair as macrominers."
"no."
"noooooooooo"
"nothe way eve is setup, it can concievably run for many years with constant updates. vanity only items are the first step to not vanity only items, which are the first step to the game's demise."
"cosmetic only."
"no"
"no"
"vote no"
"no"
"no"
"yes to microtransactions.i would appreciate polls be made in a neutral tone as this one is bias. i am finding the immature 12year bash ccp, i am constantly seeing intolerable. where are all the adults i have come to respect in this game."
"cosmetic"
"noooooooooooooooooooooooo!!!!!!!!!!!!!i hate how ccp is trying to do micro-transaction on us. worst, they are doing micro-transaction wrong. worst even yet, these might not eve stick to vanity things again. ccp lied to us about not doing any micro-transaction, what do you think they won't lie to us again?"
"no!"
"never had mt ... hum plex? anyone?saying no will not change anything, at last can say cosmetic only because if they do it cosmetic only it will not affect game and bring money for ccp (without unbalancing since it will be only items for people who want to show off) you need a better cosmetic only argumentation (op)(also whats wrong with mt as long as its not obligatory to play ... wfc)"
"cosmetic only"
"no."
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"\"cosmetic only\""
"nothat is; i do not support any microtransactions in this game, current or future."
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic onlyponies and rainbows... ooh, butterflies!!!"
"nodon't ruin this game ccpthat's all i want to say."
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only."
"no."
"cosmetic onlymore money for p, but without breaking the game balance and industry profession."
"cosmetic only."
"no"
"no"
"no. absolutely worst case cosmetic. anything other = end of eve."
"no!"
"no!"
"no.too big risk that advantage-for-money items appear there one day."
"no"
"vote cosmetic"
"noget a new loan to develop wod and dust514"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"**no no no**"
"noalso, topic starter = man of epic truths. kudo's for this protest by resigning from the csm."
"cosmetic"
"no"
"no"
"big no!!!"
"no"
"no!"
"no"
"no!"
"vanity only"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"noit's a big fat no. i do not want to see eve turn into tf2."
"no"
"no,don`t destroy the best game..."
"no!"
"no.i have read the newsletter and agree with the characterization of mt as cosmetic, convenience, and power  that said, my no vote is really for yes cosmetic and convenience, no power. you want to spend real money or plex for a nose-ring or purple hair  be my guest. ditto for expanded hanger space or even the ability to sort/retain wallet transactions a certain way. but not for game-changers! one of the really great things about eve is that (like real life) you have to make the effort to improve yourself by doing something other than just blowing stuff up (i.e. training). sure, some training takes a long time and i hate spending 20+ days to get a level 5 skill as much as anyone  so what, thats life. but the ability to by-pass that and (for example) allow a rich noob to buy the skills and a cap ship when theyve played the game for 2 days and complete equally with 3-4 year players will (in my opinion) absolutely ruin the game. its not elitism or unfair advantage for a player that has put in a great deal of effort to achieve a level or experience to expect noobs to do the same  it is blatantly unfair to change those kinds of rules after the fact! obtw: its very disappointing that dust is going in this direction  i have no idea what the numbers are, but do mmos that use this approach have the same level of play loyalty that eve does? i doubt it. obtw #2: a company makes a long-term profit by having a long-term satisfied customer base  not by maximizing profit when the outsource."
"nonever liked plex in the first place. allowing plex and mt still fuels the illegal isk banks and spam. while i understand people who don't have a lot of money for a monthly sub will feel the pain, it will also clean up the profit from bots and hopefully remove the incentive for them to stay."
"no"
"no!"
"no !i considered to vote \"cosmetic only\". but that would just leave the back door open to force it down our throats at a later stage anyway.(truth be told, i believe mt for non-vanity stuff is a done deal, and if anything may just be delayed to give 'em more time conditioning the community for it. from ccp's point of view, the purpose of the meeting isn't to decide mt for non-vanity or not. it is to get the csm to agree on a acceptable way to wrap it in for the community.)"
"no"
"no."
"no!(mts for gold ammo etc. forced me to end other games and starting with eve btw)"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"noeve is addictive because its a little \"hard mode\" compared to other mmo"
"no!"
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"no!!!!!!!!!!!!!"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"no ... and furthermore hell no!"
"no"
"no!"
"no"
"n-o spells no!"
"no!!!!!"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"no"
"vanity only"
"vanity only"
"no"
"cosmetic"
"i'll vote to allow cosmetic only. what do i care if you have a monocle? nor do i care if your paladin suddenly sprouts minimatar wings. if it adds an ability or item usable ingame, no way. i used to be totally against any sort of rmt, but i use plex to fund my accounts. after having been in swg last 45 days for free, i also don't have a problem with paintings for your quarters or a stupid hat. (tcg)i do however have issues with it granting abilities, buffs, uber items or anything else.of course, swg didn't benefit so much from rmt (trading card game) did it? it's cancelled on dec 15.if you want to spend 50 bucks on a vanity items that's nothing more than a few pixels... i say go for it. i'd rather not see rmt exclusive items that grant any sort of advantage, whether it is ship, item, intel or mobility based."
"no"
"no"
"no"
"cosmetic(please avoid the item mall idea for actual useful stuff and keep this stuff limited to fancy tigerstripes on my loki and a stripper for a cq)"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"no."
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no !hell no !absolutely not !never !wtf ???"
"cosmetic only."
"cosmetic only. if pay-to-win items/ships show up, i'm going to make it my mission to blow up as many of them as i can, hisec or otherwise."
"noi'd say cosmetic only but with \"greedy\" people you give a finger and they take the arm...porcodio!"
"cosmetic onlybut only if:you require an ingame earned/traded item for every microtransaction item.this may seem like less mt fun, but it should actually be more mt fun.i was typing a reply to motivate my answer, but it got so long it turned into a new thread:the cash to isk market and vanity items mti've read a lot of arguments lately for and against mt in a competitive non f2p mmo, but i feel that the core issue is not being stressed enough: the ability to turn cash into ingame wealth or power. isk, not just power items. so i try to explain my understanding of the eve market and the effects of cash flowing into the game. i also explain why i feel that ccp can't control the cash to isk market the way they seem to intend, and i propose an alternative mt system that includes a control by the player base and market. you may not agree with me, but please join the discussion about cash to isk/power through vanity items mt :)"
"no"
"no."
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"cosmetic only."
"no."
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"+1cut scene should be optional or non existent.i work in space, play in space and explore space. and if truth be known, i prefer to sleep in my ship. why do i want a huge room with nothing in it? give me options and let me be as simple or as complex as i "
"1.0"
"i like this idea, although i always imagined clone jumping to take place in it's own special facility on station."
"massive +1"
"dear god no. terrible idea.people are whinging about load times as it is, and you want to insert cutscenes?great intent though."
"well, the op proposes making the cut scenes optional. i'd love to see them at least occasionally."
"supported."
"1.0"
"1.0"
"+1, great and probably cheap idea.i feel bad thinking of all the showers that are wasted on stations games."
"this would be much nicer compared to the current cq. however, the ability to undock directly from the cq to save time should be kept"
"because cq interface is below any standardsalso i like ship spinning, it's what i've paid for these last 3-4 years. at least it spins smoothly."
"i like the look of cq and i think incarna has potential. however there are times when i need to do internet spaceships stuff and not be distracted by rp stuff. the current approach make this a hassle when it doesn't have to be. please see the sense in returning to us the features we love while still adding new ones we will (hopefully) come to love."
"supported"
"+1 ccp please do so!!!!!"
"definitely yes"
"yes, please do this"
"supported"
"/supported"
"sorry can't support this. some feature may have been promised or proposed have to be left behind because of programing difficulties.i do not want to play a game that is going to to spend $20 million on allowing me to launch my frigate out of a mothership when that same $20 million can be put towards making wormholes, t3 cruisers.you have to be able to apply your resources to where they have the larges effect. when time changes and your gradual replacement of the code makes that feature practical to implimement... then pick up that fallen feature on your way though."
"i should point out, that i agree on return of static background only if they rework it in a far better quality. a screenshot of a tengu in high res and high quality in old dock looks bad, because background has poor quality."
"incredibly eager to see this done.space --> hangar --> cq --> wis"
"/supported"
"the csm has been invited to iceland in a few days time to address the outrage over the mt issue.it vital that mts for game advancing items should never be brought in, but the issue over cq being mandatory and not having the old hanger with the option to disembark should not be forgotten and swept under the carpet by ccp. at the very least, confirmation is needed that the option not to load station environments will not be removed."
"i would love to see the same option the dev had when he first showed it! make it optional."
"when the devs showed us this, they had the option as a button in the traditional hanger view. i said, \"well, i'll go along with it so long as that system comes with it.\" what's the one thing they left out? that ****ing button. traditional hanger...right now.oh and, say no mt as well. (sorry, had to say it, sorry)"
"support this"
"supported"
"this. docking is optional. undocking is optional. entering lowsec is optional. entering 0.0 is optional. entering wormholes is optional. mining is optional. manufacturing is optional. invention is optional. trading is optional. exploration is optional. selling plex is optional. running missions is optional. belt ratting is optional. doing plexes is optional. doing sanctums is optional. maintaining a pos is optional. holding space is optional. factional warfare is optional. planetary interaction is optional. fighting off incursions is optional. heck, even entering jita is optional :d. i think you see the pattern. please stop messing with my sandbox ccp."
"/signed"
"i support"
"/supported"
"i can't believe i haven't voted here ealier - absolutely!"
"here is why ccp shouldn't do this:they could spend the time doing other better thingsincarna is already a cpu hog. the more things flopping around and simulated, the worse it gets.since you all posted in here, you clearly all have internet connections. you can get much better footage of boobs flopping around than an internet spaceship game."
"everyone loves jiggle physics. although this would mean needing to add a \"jump\" button"
"dead or alive has wobbly breasts it'd be a great idea, adding some real immersion and perhaps giving us something to do other than spinning ships. on the other-hand, as mentioned by previous posts, there are more important things that need to be fixed first"
"and just how much of the aforementioned resources were spent on the arsty, yet functionless captains quarters?i say that cq sets a precedence for designing form over function and that ccp would be totally behind this.the bottom line ... well while you are modelling movements of fat depositions you could also look at the bottom line ....+1 for the lulz"
"the other poll is exaclty this whitehound.the original post was made before there were any microtransactions other than plex."
"sorry i can't tie ccp's hands to compete in the current market.this micro transaction is an opt out option i don't have to pay for.60$ monical - dam right!- how else are you going to limit the popularity of an item. any other suggestions in making an item rare.the only mistake ccp made was not to include some penny purchase items. i am all for micro transaction to open up npc services, like character moving between account or other npc services, as long as plex is involved so no one is left out in the cold.if you are worried about people being able to buy a win... you are 4 years too late, since 2007 a person has been able to exchange timecodes for titans."
"this thread is clearly shutting the stable door after the horse has bolted. but +1 anyway."
"get rid of the nex store to show that you are listening to the players."
"yes.i will not support any development that makes any part of eve in any way inaccessible to anyone with a subscription, this includes vanity-only stuff.furthermore, the half-\"we're still doing the right thing because you can sell vanity items on the market\" is - in my opinion - much worse than not selling them on the market, as this is a direct injection of value into the otherwise completely (save for a few npc items) player-driven market.i oppose of any form of microtransactions (in eve, not in general) making any part of the game available only to those that participate in mt (either directly through $ -> plex -> aur -> item, or indirectly through isk -> plex -> aur -> item).any in-game change requiring a microtransaction to be made at some point is not only against the spirit of what new eden has become, but inherently limits the game for those not engaged in these transactions.finally, making any game content (vanity or otherwise) available solely through microtransactions gives the developers a very notable incentive to create sub-optimal free content;i would be interested in flying a specifically branded ship - like the scorpion ishukone watch - but making these skins/vanity options (not even minding the economy implications of providing bpcs, bpos or even ships being injected into the market) require microtransations means i may be forced to fly a sub-optimally skinned (subjective) scorpion, knowing full well that a more interestingly skinned scorpion exists in the game i pay for, only it is not accessible unless i (or someone else) pays $ for it.... i really am not able to put my concerns regarding any mt in eve into any concise form, and as such some points are vaguely described. and most points not even mentioned.this post will have to do, for now.to reiterate:yes, i want microtransactions removed altogether."
"excluding plex because it is the lesser of two evils makes no sense, it is either or. plex made a huge difference to me as i can play/enjoy the game and \"pay\" for it at the same time .. but the fact remains that plex represent the ability of rl rich people essentially being able to buy isk and by extension advantage.ps: note that the proposed mt is vanity only so technically that should be considered the lesser evil as it does not provide an unfair advantage to users.directly, perhaps not. but 'giving' ccp a secondary revenue stream will allow them to do more for the game as a whole .. kind of like banning pesticides, no immediate benefit for the individual but mitigates pollution of fresh water supply to the benefit of all.giving the militias uniforms .. \"u mad?!\" that would be the ultimate insult, like handing out eating utensils to starvation victims .. just sayin'"
"introducing micro-transactions circumvents the basic player-driven sandbox economy that made eve the great and unique game it is. definitely remove for me too."
"no to mt"
"no microtransactions, ever!"
"microtransactions goes against the concept of a player driven economy. i had looked forward to both incarna and dust 514 as means to create new professions and new ways to expand on the excellent economy of eve, however with this move i think ccp is moving away from the player driven economy which will hollow out a major part of eve."
"-1not supported"
"yes"
"plex is the lesser evil of 1) redistributing isk to players spending $, and 2) rmt/botting.putting players in direct competition with rmt/botting is - in my opinion - the single best argument for having plex in the first place; players with no scruples have always been able to buy isk from botters/rmts.with plex, the majority of these sales now happen legitimately between players, and ccp gets a share as well (as opposed to the rmts/botters).the ability for players to buy their subscription from other players (who bought a subscription voucher from ccp) using in-game currency - meaning you can play without personally paying $ - is a nice added effect of the anti-rmt/botting initiative.the redistribution of isk towards $-wealthier people is a (very) unfortunate consequence of plex, but in my opinion this consequence is outweighed by the resultingreduction in rmt/botting.the ability to obtain a subscription voucher with in-game currency is an interesting bonus, with an unfortunate yet necessary consequence.what is vanity mt the lesser evil of, exactly?vanity mt is not a necessity, it is not unavoidable, nor does it actually solve an issue.quite the contrary; instead of having vanity content available to every subscriber, you must pay additional $ (or someone else must) for content that could just as easily have been available through the gameplay already present, without the need of microtransactions.if you consider non-vanity mt to be the greater evil, i must ask why the option no mt is not even considered.the only reason any mt content would be necessary/unavoidable (only thereby giving relevance to the question of the lesser evil) is if ccp are not currently financially capable of developing eve online.if this truly is the case, the evils to be considered include a number of options (not limited to these few, of course):ccp slowing down or stopping development/support of eve onlineplayer-destroyed significant plex quantities (liberating ccp from subscription voucher liabilities)subscription fee $ increaseccp successfully accepting good-faith donations (already indirectly possible through destruction of plex)providing vanity microtransactionsproviding convenience microtransactionsproviding game-affecting microtransactionspersonally (and it cannot be stressed enough that this is my personal opinion), evil #3 is the most appealing to me while still being probable.evils #2 and #4 would be wonderful, but are most like very unsustainable.#1 is extremely sad - and hands-down the greatest evil on the list.#5 is only very conditionally acceptable to me, but still problematic - not to mention much less preferred than other options.i could see #6 being likely, but only ever acceptable (to me) insofar as conveniences are also equally available through in-game means - without depending on plex or other $-paid things.finally, #7 would ruin the game for me, and i would most likely see myself forced (through principle/ideology) to cease playing.tl;drif ccp are having financial trouble, i would not mind an increased subscription fee - or even destroying an additional plex each time i consume one.i would mind any form of microtransaction being added (something that - sadly - has already happened).if ccp are not having financial trouble, there is no necessity (and no player-catering reason) to introduce content as microtransaction (and not regular) goods.- i should probably start my own thread. -"
"i would like them removed completely, but i doubt that would happen."
"remove it, now!!! it is too much a risk for eve to have mt! i would settle for clothes and paint jobs for ships as market items, but nex has to go, period."
"signed in the blood of cancelled accounts."
"+1 to the no mt at all ever for ever and ever vote."
"1.0"
"remove all of it and honestly i couldn't care less what happens with the ppl who bought vanity items.best thing would be the if all the items where simply vaporized and taken out of eve completely to be put as non-items in the avatar creator instead."
"supported."
"please ccp, no microtransactions in eve, it just breaks eve.sand box or litter tray...... sand box every time"
"i'm totally for getting rid of the new mt store, or moving it's items across to lp stores. since cq and wis are really only a way to sell mt items, i say get rid of them too, for good."
"harvested gas takes a fair bit cargo space. i have heard of hurricanes, ferox, typhoons, have been used to do this jobpoke this idea people of eve, to see the introduction of a dedicated gas harvesting ship, similar to a transporter in size, resonable cargo space, with the bonus for compressing gas to a liquid as per rl. average measurements of the gases' to liquid compression could be similar to rl comparisons. e.g. nitrogen gas 696cf(cubic feet)= 1cf liquid nitrogen, so a basic formula could be aprox 7:1, like the volume of fullerite-c32 is 5.0 so with 35 units harvested would give 1 unit of liquid.having a module say mid slot or include within the ships design capable to compress the gas to liquid.not to forget cycle time bonus per level, there is room to improve this bring it on ccp."
"hehe, you said gas is a highly volatile market... hehe, gas, methane."
"supported."
"got to agree the emergency summit should include a published dev blog roadmap"
"i do think this would be nice, even if just to get people excited (in a good way) about future developments."
"support. with the stipulation that this roadmap is the actual roadmap, not the \"future vision\" crap they feed us every once in awhile."
"the export of fleet history saved me more time then i guess ccp realizes. i really don't understand why it was just taken out. at least if you are going to take the export feature out, have the ability to copy all/copy selected your fleet history window similar to chat windows...maybe a log file...something would have been nice. taking the ability away for really no good reason without any feature replacement is just bad customer service. it just tells me it only matters what ccp thinks about features...not what the current eve community might want or need."
"tuskers idea is good. ok, hookbill is still best faction frigate imo but at least it's not impossible for others to win it. i dont agree with cynabal turns to sfi argument since based on my experience, navy caracal can win sfi. it's not easy but certainly possible."
"+1 for this idea"
"1.0"
"let's just start by stating the fact that sp sales are already happening and they are immensely popular both on the sanctioned forums via isk (which is rl cash via plex) as well as on 3rd party sites for rl cash straight up.so it's really not clear what you are talking about when you say they would be idiotic.i am a long time player and i wouldn't feel slapped in the face. i would welcome the opportunity to buy sp from ccp directly rather than by proxy. when you buy someone else's character for rl cash (via plex to isk) you are stuck with their name, their portrait (for the time being, till you get to change it for plex), with their history (that you as buyer are rarely 100% aware of), and with whatever choices they have made skillpoint wise.when you pay ccp straight up for skillpoints you have a much stronger bond with the character you create not because you paid for it but because you decide the name, the appearance, and the skillpoint allocation. that is an argument that's based on logic rather than emotion.all i have heard in opposition to straight sp sales are arguments which are all based on logical fallacies such as appeal to emotion, fear, pity, tradition, etc. but not one argument that's actually based on logic.if you have one to present i welcome it. i am curious as to what logical reason there can be to not allow sp sales."
"your completely off the mark in regards to selling lp. character purchases are not limitless, and thus, are trained by paying accounts. if the ability to outright by lp was introduced the following would happen;rookies would no doubt jump into something large and powerful and lose it quickly. thus, the eve market itself would suffer due to supply and demand issues.nullsec alliances with people who rmt (lets not beat around the bush, it happens) will have the ability to train supercap pilots in weeks rather than months, so instead of the current trend of them being used in countable numbers, we would end up in a cluster**** of supercaps online.you would be spitting in the face of oh say anyone who has played the game more than six months and has invested time and determination to get where they are. the sandbox would quite literally be turned into a kiddies swimming pool, urine and chlorine and all. your either an excellent troll or completely deluded. implants are one thing, selling sp outright is the road to f2p and iwin buttons. it balances nothing and simply screws the sandbox epicly. feel free to vainly try make points about the bazaar, but understand the bazaar will always have limited toons at limited times regardless of how frequent sales occur. sp sales would literally destroy everything that makes eve what it is. it should take time to train for ships. it should take time to get t2 weapon systems. if you hand it out for cash, you remove the entire point of the sp system."
"i won't argue with you because you are clearly set in your view and no reasonable and logical argument will even be considered by you. however, the point of the sp system is and always has been to have players pay a monthly subscription fee for eternity to come. invested time and determination has nothing to do with it because all you needed to do was pay and wait. it takes neither skill nor determination to do so. sp have always been handed out for cash, just at a much slower pace.unlimited titan pilots? so what, there are only so many titans being built. the pilots have never been the limiting factor when it comes to how many titans are operational, it's always been the availability of new ships. if you had any insight in that level of alliance warfare you'd know that."
"you're pretty naive if you think those with rl cash to spend don't already have an \"advantage\" over you."
"originally, as in all of my posts, i'm against non-vanity items that can give a player an advantage.however, humpink makes some valid points, and the arguments you guys throw back at him are either quite poor, or humpink has some pretty good rebuttle... humpink seems to be winning this debate in terms of providing good reasoning (my personal preferences aside).if i may say however, (again i'd like to remind you that i'm originally against non-vanity, items), if, yes if, and only if ccp was going to introduce non-vanity items, i would hope that they would also involve spending of isk and for anything sp related, have very strict rules apply - i.e. only characters with less than 1.6mil be able to buy such items or something.i mean seriously guys.. if you truly ignore your own prejudice, for just a short moment, and consider what this will mean for the game (trying to think of the positives)...- new player experience will be so much better- you can invite your friends and they might actually enjoy the game rather than get bored so quickly and give-up- (i'm sure you can think of another one)and consider this!!are you seriously going to be against the idea of being able to blow-up an expensive ship that's been fitted and flown by a noob?more easy kills guys! better kills too!and more players in general!yes, there are a few cons/negatives... everything has cons! but people are creating (or already have created) cyno-alts! they are always going to be a factor.. this minor change (which we've had before with the 100% training bonus to new characters, and before that characters started with 900k sp) will hardly make a difference... (yes i know we all had the learning skills removed.. but this as i sad before is only a short little boost for newer players to give them a little helping start) ..or are you threatened by a 1.6mil sp character in a frigate which is probably poorly fit?are you jealous of later generations having it a 'little' easier than it was for you in your first month?(again) are you against having more people to shoot at? more people to buy from you? sorry for long post.. but i think people really need to just give it a little thought (without prejudice)reminder: i prefer there to be no non-vanity items at all! but if ccp is going to do it regardless.. this one i could live with cheers"
"do you realize what you are saying? instant afk cloakers. instant cyno alts. instant suicide gankers. the rmters will love it! now they can use some of their rmt'd isk or cash to make new toons fully capable of botting at max profitability instantly!what do you think of drakes? wait until you get a corp populated entirely by day old noob toons in fully-skilled missile spewing bricks!or worse, they cash out for a nyx+pilot. with sp, ships, and skills all available for cash, every swinging **** in nul will be sporting a super with spinners.as for the real noobs and not just the new toons owned by experienced players, they will get eaten alive by vets. ccp will have to deal with a never-ending stream of petitions from 12-year-olds who stole daddy's credit card crying about how the bad men touched them in inappropriate places on their super dildo ship, and they should get reimbursed because they didn't know they needed a cyno alt to go anywhere.so, no. i do not and never will support sp for cash. (no, don't talk about implants.)"
"no."
"this.also i suspected that after a year if ccp ever implemented that p2w sp for $$$. many noobs would say to the real veterans, \"lolol why you no buy sp? you are a noob! you're in a drake and i have a nyx with all sp maxed out!\"sp for $$$ take away the fun factors in eve."
"i can imagine the never-ending stream of mails on the killboards with supercapitals and faction battleships sporting comedy fittings.please no. the idea is stupid in every possible way."
"maybe $1 per 50 sp, maybe. but 1,000,000 for $15? you're mentally ill."
"this is circular... the idea is \"stupid,\" or not, in the context of the game, on its own merits. you're asserting that ccp isn't stupid. why? because they don't do stupid things! and why is this not a stupid thing? because ccp isn't stupid! logic fail.-smoke and mirrors about faction ships deleted, because behind that we have...-ya don't say. here's a thing to ponder:during that time of skill training and game playing, what ships did you fly? what modules did you fit?now, a large chunk of people pay for skillpoints. we must assume it's large, or ccp isn't doing it, seeing as they're not dumb and all and this is going to work out well for them, right? so all those players skip the frigates and crap modules. hell, let's make a pyramid: a small percentage of them go totally nuts and spend ridiculous amounts of real-life cash to get right at capital ships. we'll ignore those, because they're outliers.a larger percentage \"stop\" at battleships. instantly, they've bypassed frigates, cruisers, and very likely all of t1.most of them, at the bottom of the pyramid, skip crap frigates, or maybe frigs altogether and go for cruisers. we must assume they *at least* skip the lowest rung or two of ships and modules, or else *there's no point in doing this.*so. having removed a huge portion of the demand for all those items... how exactly does this not affect the economy again?"
"honestly - this is not a downside. yes, inexperienced pilots with no clue whatsoever will be flying around with very expensive things, not knowing how to use them or what 0.0 means or any other damn thing. if you think about that for a minute, you will realize there's no downside to this.i'm just not sure it will overcome the weirdness it will do to the economy, and the economy is kinda 99.9% of the original vision of this game."
"originally players started with between 890,000 and 912,000 sp based on what they chose for race/etc. rather than creating a giant screwball with buying skillpoints, provide a bank of discretionary skillpoints that can be applied to get them going, to the tune of around 400,000. essentially giving them the chance to pick up those all important first skills without having to wait while they train to continue the tutorials, and enough to spare for a few options."
"no extra sp for cash ... i have over 100 mil sp, taken me 6 yrs to get to this stage, why should i be penalized for my time and investment in the game only for someone with very little intrest in the game, logging on and buying 20 mil sp at the drop of a hat ... what is the point ? besides, each ship is unique, learning to fly a frig i.e. scouting will improve you as a pvp pilot later ... buying skills = jumping ship classes too fast .. obtain skill learn how to use ship and mods be a better pilot all round ......i think the skill system is a a part of makes eve good ... tbh"
"first off let me say that im not an old grizzled vet of this game i started back in 09 when i first found out about this game. i got my char up to about 8mil sp then i quit playing because no matter how much i played or how much i put into the game i only gained sp so fast. you know great on you for players out there that have been on this game since beta without you this game wouldnt be here. now with that said. why not do something like this if anything it will lower the price of plex slightly because more people want isk to buy the implants that means you get to play more for less. if you want to keep the player driven community going then make these items player creatable ccp wins because they sell more plex community wins because you will have more items in the community and you will keep more people playing for longer. yes there will be some cons like guys with 80mil sp running around with a head full of +10s but if there destroyable why the hell not. it will give the opportunity for players who would like to be more involed with the game a chance to get into more aspects of the game. i mean seriously people why the hell should it take almost a year of subs to finally get into the game. right now it takes about a year for 12mil sp maybe with these implants you could get 20-30mil sp a year. it would take years for a player like me to catch up to a player that doesnt have a head full of +10s and has been playing for long time."
"just because you conveniently twisted it into a circular argument doesn't make it so.reality has already proven that ccp isn't stupid. eve is still here after all these years and after so many other mmos (even big studio titles) folded. not only is eve here but it created enough cash flow to pretty much fund the development of dust. so yes, ccp isn't stupid. they will not introduce mt which will slaughter the cash cow that is eve. i am surprised that this even needs to be said.it doesn't have to be large at all. the code to issue skillpoints is already there, that's how we got unallocated skillpoints for that one downtime/rollback and for the learning skills. creating code to swap plex for sp isn't resource intensive and it's there for eternity to come. i obviously don't have hard numbers but i would imagine that 100 people pouring in $1,000 into converting plex to sp would easily pay for the code. everything else is gravy.would you drop a grand into a new toon if it is exactly as you want it? i know i would, but i also know that many of the players i know wouldn't because they can't even afford their current sub begging for someone to spot them a plex so they can keep going to fleets.plex for sp isn't for the masses, it would never be. it's the ferrari vs that ford taurus the majority of the population is driving. still, ferrari is profitable even though it isn't common, same with plex to sp.it's interesting that you feel that someone else obtaining skillpoints quicker than you did would penalize you. do you mind explaining what penalty is applied to you every time someone obtains a character they didn't wait 6 years for? do you cringe every time a character is sold on the current character bazaar?frankly, your feelings on this aren't relevant when it comes to the discussion what a company should do for profit and growth. you asked about the point. the point is growth. growth that hasn't existed in the game for quite some time. if you can't see why growth is relative and important then that's a discussion for another topic or perhaps some basic business courses.i highly doubt you would have the same view if you were just starting the game today. you don't want people to buy sp because you don't want someone to be up there with you. that's an ok attitude, but let's be honest in saying that it is about you and not the game itself."
"oops, missed replying to this;i think it's fair to say that if there was a plex to sp conversion many new players would skip frigates altogether. builders would need to adapt to the increased demand for cruisers and bc and the decreased demand in frigates.plex to sp would affect the economy, though i don't see how it would negatively affect the economy. plex to sp would bring in additional players, players that are not just the n-th alt of an existing player. there would be increased demand for products. that demand may not be on the low end of t1, but so what?my guess would be that few players would go all out and get the sp needed to get into a fleet fit bs, but i would also guess that many players would drop a couple plexes into augmenting their fitting skills, or get to t2 guns faster or whatever.there will be a shift in demand but new players create additional demand and existing players will demand other goods. the economy won't be doomed."
"the minute i see this in the game, i'd leave. it defeats the entire purpose and feeling of eve, patience, and working towards goals.not instant gratification."
"where do these sandbox breaking ideas come from? do put some thought into these ideas. removal of the time needed to train will impact the sandbox in a number of ways.progression in eve, difficulty, sps, money required to do things, are not linear and for good reason. diminishing returns is in some areas, and increasing returns in others are an important aspect of the sandbox economy, much of its balance depends on this. buy purchasing sp, that balance becomes distorted, some parts of the sandbox will be skipped over and additional, unexpected demands will be placed in other areas.selling sps is short sighted and will have a number of unfortunate expected consequences, and possibly even greater number of unexpected consequences."
"because clearly, clicking on a skill and waiting for it to complete involves work. news flash; eve is about entertainment and to most waiting years for something to happen simply isn't entertaining.your reply contained 122 words and 738 characters (including spaces) yet you failed to mention even a single \"unfortunate\" consequence. since you didn't actually contribute anything to the discussion i'll take the liberty to make a more personal suggestion and say that you should go into politics."
"i am for micro transactions but this idea is bada: removes the biggest isk sink from the gameb: prevents play for free isk grinders to have access to the game, there for destroying the plex market,"
"ok, want one? noob enters game, buys his sps up to doing lvl 4 missions. noob now never needs to buy frigs, cruisers, bcs, all the ammo, the fittings, the risks to progress his way up through the game. he does not need to purchase any of the products created by players that produce those lower level items. he does not have to deal with the risks that allow his goals to have meaning. by passing all the risks, that has removed all the game play opportunities for other players to present those risks to that player.happy? this isn't rocket science, wake up."
"new players used to(i think they still do, haven't made any since tyrannis) get a double-skill point training period such that it basically does the same thing you stated here, the first 1.4 million+ is double-speed. giving new players 400k points outright when they don't likely have the isk to buy skills worth investing those points in is rather messed up. essentially they get 600k+ free points, just spaced out across their first month/45 days or whatever.i would object to skill points purchasable directly through plex or aurum, but i am not completely against being able to buy skill points. an idea a buddy of mine and i bounced around before was perhaps having a \"skill points injection\", kinda like a booster. make a sort of \"skill point booster bpc\" that can be a.) purchased with lp from the various factions (something like 10k sp bpc for 100k lp and 20 mil isk.... not cheap at all), or b.) drop (rarely) from regular npc rats. i guess with having some freely available sources, a plex/aurum form wouldn't be that detrimental, just as long as that's not the only way.the idea (in a nutshell) being, 10k skill points (approximately 5 hours of training) is not a significant amount of sp such that it would throw out the game, especially if like clone jumping, you limit it to one injection a day (something about the pain of flash-memory learning to keep it in line with lore) and that it would be so overly expensive for skill points that it would not cause people to make supercap pilots by buying sp. after all, there's the character bazaar, pilots can be bought that way.by doing this, it will get the high sec people that want to move out to 0.0 the sp that most alliances demand just a little bit faster, the 0.0 people can get their little sp bonus, and the old disgruntled veterans (5th year for me) don't get angry at \"all the young whippersnappers who didn't have to wait for their battleship v training\"just whatever it is, keep it small, so that the bonus gained is not so much that it throws things out of balance."
"to you old vets who don't want some new players coming in and enjoyingeve without the stupidly long wait times of training you went through are idiots.i'm new 3 months playing eve i dumped $1000 down and boughta 100mill sp pilot $30 billion. i just finished 3 weeks of running complexesback to back in 0.0 space and bought a second 70 mill perfect tengu carrier pilot$15.5 billion from 0.0 loot i found. as you see people can already buy sp your arguments make no senseand are just knee jerk reactions of predicable resistance to change.i quit eve twice in the past cause truly the game sucks putting a glass ceiling on you stuckwhere you cant progress in the game unless you wait months for training to complete. compare it to world of warcraft just imagine if blizzard limited you level by time.so your stuck killing lvl 5 orcs for 4 weeks while you train to level 6. if blizzard did that wouldthey have 6-10 million players he'll no.ccp willl introduce this feature it will make them large amounts of money and it will increase the player base bring more people in for us all to shoot and ccp with more cash can make more investments into growing content and features for the game. it's all win win.you old vets are funny your arguments are like those of a child who will not listen to reason cause you hands are cupped over your ears.change happens go read \"who moved my cheese\""
"you know what? this will help vets more than noobs. consider ...vet player out in 0.0, he can crank out tons of isk chasing down rats and faction loot and lots of meta 4 items. he can sell all of this for a nice profit in high sec, not to mention all the isk bounties. he then turns around and creates a new character. he buys a bunch of plex and then goes off and buys skill points for the new character and magic himself in a carrier pilot, he knows exactly what skills he needs, he knows exactly how much it will cost him to create. he then takes that carrier pilot and ganks the stupid noob that bought his way into a dred before he knew what the consequences could be.older vets can out isk the new kids, older vets can buy skill points faster than the new kids. think about it for a moment. as for your buying character argument, this is false. this characters already existed, someone took the time in the past to create them, took the risks to earn the isk to purchase their skill books. went out and played the game and interacted with others to generate that isk to produce that character.character swaps are sandbox neutral. buying skill points is not."
"it's not rocket science yet you still fail to think it through and only consider the path of reasoning that fits your preconceived notions.let's look at your example in a little more detail.first let's talk about risk. where exactly is there risk in empire mission running? i really do have an open mind about this but empire mission running in a frigate, cruiser, or bc doesn't hold any risk. if anything it's more risky to get into a level 4 without knowing what you are doing because you just bought your toon.it is true that he doesn't need to purchase lower level items, but instead he is purchasing battleships, appropriate modules, and ammo two years earlier than he would have. he is still consuming resources, just different ones. that will affect individual producers but not the economy as a whole.if you insist on talking risk then other players now present that risk to the battleship pilot for a much more significant loss than suiciding a mission runner caracal in hi-sec.what about goals having meaning? there are two ways to look at it.one way is that nothing anyone does in an mmo has any meaning at all. waiting for a skill to complete over time isn't an accomplishment because all it takes is money and time.the other way to look at it is that the person who does not have a problem with dropping lots of disposable income into non-tangible goods has already accomplished his goals in real life. goals that allow him to not worry about rl cash he wants to spend on virtual stuff. now, which player is more accomplished, the one who spend 6 years of his life and $1,000 on eve or the player who walks in and drops $1,000 out of disposable income? i'll let the readers make up their own mind on this one.the third way (i know, it's a long way) to look at it is that it's really none of your business what someone else gets out of the game. just because you feel that waiting for something to happen gives you some sense of accomplishment doesn't mean that everyone else thinks about it the same way. what is true is that ccp's goal is to provide entertainment value in exchange for money. that's all that really matters. if ccp wants more money then they need to adjust the way they deliver the entertainment value. one viable way to do so is to provide \"instant action\" for players willing to pay for it.no one is disputing that there will be effects should sp ever be sold straight up. however, a well reasoned argument demonstrating negative effects has yet to be made. and no, \"omg they won't buy 60k isk kestrels anymore, teh sky is falling!\" is not a compelling argument."
"the loss of the mission ship for one, ninja looters, hauling your loot to market and not getting suicide ganked, deciding to sell or reprocess (much less learning the difference) sell to highest buyer or sell order. these are all risks, and each represents interaction with another player.what about the noob industrialist, the noob miner that is operating on a small scale, learning the ropes of eve industry and market? he looses potential customers cause they just skip right over his products.yeah that sense of accomplishment for overcoming those risks will mean so much more when everyone is running around with 150 million sp and gold plaited pants.listen to your self, you're going to try and equivocate this left and right aren't you?you can try to equivocate this point with me if you want to, but it is not going to do you any good. take your straw man, and put it in your bag of politician tricks.well he can go buy some plex and get a character from the character bazaar, a solution already exists that doesn't disrupt the balance in the sandbox, that's why it is there and acceptable to most players. well if it's none of my business, then it's none of yours either. who are you to tell me anything then or make any sugegstions on these forums at all?just because you do not like the result, doesn't mean sound arguments haven't been made. your head is in the sand."
"for reasons unknown you want to maintain the status quo and use deflection to in an attempt to avoid answers which are inconvenient to your goals.i'll leave it up to the readership to decide who made arguments that they are able to logically follow.the flaw in your line of argumentation is that you presume that all new players will buy their way out of whatever ship class. this is an unreasonable assumption. likewise it is an unreasonable assumption that an entire industry exist to gank level 1-3 mission runners out of the loot they are hauling off. does it happen? it probably does but the impact of some players skipping that content is no different than any other change to the game mechanics eve has seen over the past 8 years.at the end of the day neither of us has the hard numbers to see how many t1 ships are being produced, at what profit they are being sold, whether they are being blown up in empire or 0.0, etc. etc.what we can hopefully agree on is that ccp has those numbers and hopefully the ability to look at them and estimate what impact sp purchases will have on the economy.do note that the suggestion to sell sp for straight up rl cash also doesn't have to be an all or nothing type of deal. it could easily be adjusted in any number of ways such as providing a limited number of sp that can be purchased per character (say 12 or 24 mil to \"skip\" one or two years), or there could be a limit of how many sp one character can purchase per year (let's say 12 mil per year, just to make up a number), or any other conceivable way to allow players to enter the more meaningful parts of the game without having to spend a couple of years to wait for it.yes, yes, any trained monkey can be in a decently fit tackler in a couple of weeks, but it's 2011, people who don't already play eve don't have the desire to wait before they receive the entertainment value they are paying for.the skillpoint mechanic is the #2 reason why eve doesn't have more players than it does, the #1 reason being the complexity of the game. the complexity can't easily be adjusted, but the skillpoint issue can be overcome in a sensible way while at the same time still taking in the profit that would have come from that player if he had been subscribed all that time."
"be my guest, this debate has been around for years.if they want to bump up brand new players, that's fine, bump them up all the same, ccp has gone back and forth on this over the years. if they want to allow a way for everyone to get a bump in sp, then do it with an in game isk based means that all players can access with out having to go to aurum based micro-transactions, pay to win. keep it in the sandbox. this is what implants do and no one has much of an issue with them, everyone can access them with out having to go to rl money.i am not wholly opposed to sp accelerators via some device, what i am opposed to is allowing someone to purchase it outright with real world money. inside the sandbox, whatever, go for it, everyone can get at it, the costs will likely scale exponentially, like pretty much everything else in eve. plex may be involved in the process to acquire the isk, but plex is sandbox neutral in that regard.but, do be aware, no matter what device is used, veteran players will always out class noobs if they have access to the same thing, weather it's aurum based or isk based. it is not the advantage you may think it is.there are many other ways to encourage newer players and maintain retention, especially around that critical six to seven month mark besides tinkering with one of the bed rocks of this sandbox."
"makes so much sense!thanks for putting together such a great list!i'd love to do more courier work, but contracts are really cumbersome to work with right now and rarely worth the time to even find a suitable one, let alone fly it.\"hm, i'm flying from rens to x. i could take some cargo along for the way. that'd be fun! nah, it'll take half an hour even finding a contract that's relevant and doesn't look too scammy...\""
"1.0"
"in here!"
"even tho i have already stated my account (this one btw) will be allowed to expire on july 18th, my reason is for the technical part of running the game period. i also am maintaining a neutral stance until such time that results will come out for the better of the community at large.i also support the vote of no confidence."
"+1 this about sums it up."
"i'm pretty sure no one cares what we think at ccp."
"what will this document accomplish? are we going to vote him out of office?i can't play eve anymore knowing that the guys who put this show on don't thyink of us as fans, or even customers, but as subscribing (and they hope mting) piggy banks, which must be smashed open asap.this little piggy went to perpetuum."
"yeah im sure the board of directors is gonna get right on that. dork."
"lol.. you are so banned.this is completely dis-respectful.are you a share-holder? do you own a significant part of the company?we are players/customers.. we don't run the company and it's completely up to the company with how they deal with the game. they own the game. you pay for the privilege of being able to play in their world that they created. you don't own jack and your word don't mean jack.to suggest such a thing is ridiculous!(and i'm not saying i agree with everything ccp does.. i'm merely saying what an idiot you are )"
"it's a mutual agreement. i pay so they can provide. they disrepect me any way and i walk away. ccp was a company who caught me as a customer because they provided client-service. as in they provided an alternative to buying game changing items.they are doing something wrong if their player base is constant as i got at least 5 friends to play eve because of me. if they mess my eve experience as it was and should remain i'm sure i will have support from them when leaving. now consider how many others did the same as me, what will happen if ccp will upset groups of friends because of this.we as players asked for improvements and bug killing. they would have won more subcribers if they did that as i was an avid lobbyist for eve i am certain many more were lobbyists aswel."
"by all means."
"1.0"
"doesn't change the fact that this thread is going to upset some people at ccp and possible result in bans"
"1.0"
"yeah, i thought it was very strange that the ship itself is completely non-interactive in the hangar. looks like an oversight in the programming i think."
"there's a keyboard shortcut: alt-c, but yeh, it really should be as easy as it was with the mouse."
"seempulz"
"if you merge the ship hanger to the station overview the hanger is the first thing open by default when you dock. you can then double click on a ships name/type to open its cargo hold.i guess that really makes it a double click but its what i used to do anyways - it took me a bit to get used to the fact that i had to double click on the ship hanger and not the back of my avatars head edit: on second thought i want to be able to open my active ships cargo hold by double clicking on my dudes head"
"supercarriers need to be much larger. but they should still be called supercarriers. it makes sense why they're called that.real life progression: escort/light carrier -> fleet carrier -> supercarriereve progression: battleship drone boat ie: domi -> carrier -> supercarriermakes sense to me. the name is fine."
"supported."
"yes and from what incarna put out, they aren't paying attention to what were are doing. is not 90% of what players do in space."
"agree with the above. also, very much want my hangar view back, so i can elect to bypass all things cq with a more functional screen than the door."
"we pretty much agree with this, i believe. there's some wiggle room on the csm about 'services' - i don't give a crap about neural remaps for plex, but i'm comically hostile to gold ammo or the eve equivalent of lowes."
"/signedclear aswers will calm spirits of the majority of players even if the aswers are not in their interest."
"1.0"
"eve is a unique sandbox product, the result of years of efforts and love from ccpthe nature of the sandbox environment requires a close relationship of trust and understanding between ccp and the communitythe eve sandbox requires constant improvements, developments, bug fixes and gameplay additionsrecent internal reports have shown that the ccp mindset towards eve has shifted from it's courserecent expansions have shown ccp development focus is more concerned with other projects like wod and dusteve expansions should not be camouflaged parts of other games (incarna/wod)eve expansions should not be hooks to other games (tyrannis/dust)eve should not be used as a goose/cow to finance vampires or console fpseve requires dedicated teams of developers that not only fix bugs but are also 100% focused on making eve better and growing the sandboxexpansions should be meaningful, with content and gameplay additions that further enrich the gaming environmentproposalccp commits to >80% reinvestment policy of all revenues from eve subscriptions to be put back into developing evethis policy will be audited by the csm / community by reviewing annual company reportsccp is free to develop other gaming projects/whatever and can use it's track record and reputation from eve to secure external financing according to investor interest and required commercial viability assessments"
"i like this post and agree completely."
"i think 80% is a bit high. i'd be alright with 60% devoted to actually improving the mechanics and such for the game. incarna was the eye-candy expansion, adding no mechanics which benefited the gameplay itself, and thus would be part of the 40% invested in extraneous projects.ccp has spent an enormous chunk of their available funds in side projects, such as wod, dust, and wis. i have no problems with these projects, as i want ccp to grow, but everything in moderation. i'm wondering if, once these side projects are done, we're going to see more, and our beloved game is gonna be left in the dust.supported in concept."
"/signed"
"i would be happy with 50%."
"sorry can't agree with this topic.a company has to have its freedom to make its own physical policies.it has to think outside the box to compete in a real world.if it wishes to share 10 million in development in world of darkness which will in turn provide a 5 million in shared development back into eve every year for the next 5 years. then that is their decision. and i will support ccp on that."
"80% is probably too high given ccp have already got themselves in over their heads with wod and dust, but the idea is sound - the majority of eve profit above and beyond operating costs and salaries should go towards further development of eve. and not development of ways to sell mt items as with cq and wis, but improvements and additions to spaceship content.fix the bugs first. then improve existing content like boring missions, exploration, fleet warfare, sov, outdated ui, etc. finally add new spaceship related content."
"i would be happy with just 5% which probably is more than the one art team, team bff and team gridlock who are currently working on eve."
"we agree that ccp should have freedom to pursue different projects and think outside the box in order to compete in the real world.however, how much they can do this, on top of developing eve, is what this means to address. you are seeing the glass half full, where all these projects are sucessful and lead to improvements in eve without impacting it's development. but there is also the glass half empty, where these projects lead to so much resources being skimmed away from eve that in practice ccp is gambling with present assets for risky future ventures.other mmo's which much larger revenue streams can do this but their games have reached a critical mass where the % skimmed is irrelevant in absolute terms, thus not affecting development. i not only fear that eve has not reached this critial mass yet, but also that this level of critical mass for a sandbox mmo is much higher than for traditional storylined pve games.there is also a risk mitigation effect from having a portfolio of separate projects rather than all your eggs in one basket under the \"shared development\" umbrella. the fact is, shared development hurts the less risky projects (eve) and benefits the much riskier projects (dust and wod). if things go wrong, you lose it all because you gambled with everything you had...let's assume that 80% is a good enough figure. in practice this means ccp has 20% of eve revenue to develop other projects, and once initial concept/early stages are settled it can then go find investors and vc to fund them. if they are sucesfull, eve will also benefit from the 5 million \"shared development\" you refer.what won't happen with this is that ccp starts taking larger steps than they can afford, chasing after larger projects than it's real size permits. if eve grows, so do the 20% for other projects. ccp already has an advantageous position with the track record and credibility from eve. if these projects are good, they will obtain funding. ccp is better placed than 1000 other companies developing stuff from scratch - no need to skim off eve. please note that several sucessful games have been launched by companies with much less resources than ccp under this scheme - it is still a better setup to make new games than the one they had when they made eve, and we all agree eve is pretty awesome. why risk it for other things? and eve needs constant individualized and focused development. lots of it."
"personally, i would like to see this meeting that will take place broadcasted and recorded just as ccp did with ac9 (what a joke that was...oops...off topic). set up a special forum so that we, the players, can ask additional questions or add our input in real time.time to step up ccp and answer to the true investors of eve, the players.eve foreverpower to the players!cc"
"i'm a fan of this summary, have been since i saw it the first time. most of the csm is as well, it gets linked around a lot."
"my question would bewhat is the road map for incarna? what features are you planning on implementing and when? all this drama has ruined would should have been a wonderful achievement for eve and its players. give us something to look forward to again."
"t3 battlecruisers and battleships promised with the apocrypha release, where are they and why am i getting led in an infinite circle trying to find out if they're going to be released? we need time spent on correcting problems and finishing the unfinished projects of the past. if some of these cannot be finished we need a closure of some sort, something telling us what promises made will and won't be worked on now or ever.+1 on bring back the old hangar as an option. if my new vid card hadn't arrived last weekend i'd be unsubscribed already.a monthly or quarterly development report detailing the basics of what's bieng worked upon (or requiring everyone to post a monthly devblog for their team requiring the same) will go a long way towards accomplishing transparency and will keep confusion and additional questions as to what is actually bieng done from clogging up the forums and petition systems.passion.what more needs to be said here? unban 'em all, they wouldn't have acted out if it wasn't something they didn't care about.preventionto stop issues like this from exploding across the game and disrupting forums/tradehubs/lives/work kick around ideas not just at the office but get us involved. eve players as a whole are the smartest out there, we ruthlessly kill off the dumb ones every day. ideas that might cause mass controversy are the first things that should be brought to us rather than find out through subterfuge and information leaks, want to know if something might cause another riot? ask! there's more than enough of us to give a full spectrum of answers from as many standpoints as necesary.and yes i'd pay $5 to paint my hookbill black like it used to be."
"there's not a whole lot i could add that hasn't already been covered here, and i'm a fan of streamlining the graphics of captain's quarters and the growing \"ambulation\" aspect of eve, to bring the hardware requirements more in line with the rest of the game.this issue has also made clear that more and better communication between ccp and the userbase is necessary. freeing \"political prisoners\" would also be a sign of good faith, as a good many are just that (greifers not included).however, i'd like the ship repaints and customizations to be alot cheaper than $5, myself. i'd also like to see them sell for isk. it would be more realistic anyway, paying a work crew in isk to repaint your ship, like you'd pay to repair it... the bigger the ship, the bigger the cost, because there's more to paint.i have one more issue, it doesn't have to do with mt, but it does involve incarna... with the incarna expansion, drones were made to take aoe damage from missions. while i understand the reasoning behind this, drones have been the whipping boy for nerfs as long as i've been playing. i think it's about time they see some love, perhaps in the form of a complete overhaul, expansion in the form of specialized damage drones (like that we now have fighters and fighterbombers for carriers), but for all three size classes, a new ui, and perhaps some new gameplay dynamics, or even technical changes to make them less laggy, so that devoted subcapital droneboat ships in high-sec with number bonuses (and skills that would lead into carriers, rather than the current nonsensical \"training gunboats to use a droneboat\" skill training model) would not be such an \"evil\" concept.i'm probably the first to really notice that in the patch notes, but as a droneboater, it directly effects me, and does limit the missions i can run without paying more to replace my expensive tech 2 drones than i'm getting from the mission rewards."
"updated mainpost again, use colors to make it more apealling to read.and did a spelling check."
"i'm sure like almost everyone else on here i don't care about vanity items. if they want to price monocles at $70 usd then more power to them and good luck with that. however i think there's a grey area about what is game affecting and what is not. overall i'm not against being able to pay for something that you can grind to get. i draw the line at being forced to pay for something, in other words you can't get it through normal game play. my $.02 for the csm are as follows:things that don't cross the line:new ship skins that consume the basic ship to getclothes etc for space barbies and kensplexstandings (corp specific non-empire. i.e. cal navy not caldari empire) increases (i don't think this directly affects competition between players enough to qualify as p2w).extra fittings slots on the serverpets for barbie and kenthings that do cross the line (p2w stuff)gold ammo w better stats gold ships w better statsaur for spaur for access to regionsaur for specific skillsetc"
"i would like to see ccp rent out invulnerable 0.0 systems for aur on a monthly rental basis.i would also like to see the ability to upgrade such rented systems for some monthly aur charge. example upgrades could include a system decloaker that prevents cloaking in that system or access control lists for gates so that the gate will only let you through if you have sufficient standings.if the csm doesn't bring these ideas forward at the summit it will only confirm that the csm is just a pr tool."
"i would like to see 1 million skill point packs avialable in the nex for close to the price of a plex, either as a one time or once per year opportunity. aside from various compaints i have about the quality of the interface, the biggest eve turn off so far is the long wait time to get 'the really fun stuff'. selling smallish lots of sp would not negatively affect the in game player economy, would generate income for ccp and help keep more newbs in game by shortening the wait time to get the stealth bomber/cloaky hauler/hulk."
"well yes, so allow the items to be destructable, clothing should be destroyed when podded ( probably not perfect lore wise, but function > lore in this case imho ).so then they would be like implants. btw, implants can be pretty damn expensive, and people still wear them, so ..."
"supported from pi materials it would make sense even for clothing...oh and for the dude saying \"but player made stuff has to be destroyable\"incorrect stuff sellable on market has to be destroyable, and yes clothes are on the market... guess whatthere destroyable... want proof go get podded poof monocle gonelol i find it epic you all dont realize the clothes are bound to the clone, have you not clone jumped yet?"
"it would be more fun to implement shooting in stations and add a right to loot the body. and if you shoot somebody in the chest, his shirt and jacket are ruined. but all of this is just dreams... oh... sweet implant hunting."
"lol - you're out of date on your info. ccp changed this. podding does not cost you mt items. they're invulnerable."
"edit - i misinterpreted your post, you're speaking only to clothing so fair enough. i think you will find ccp does not want to sell bpos, they may do very limited run bpcs. bpos have no long term depreciation, in fact they generally appreciate in value as many people research them. if players can get a bpo, then why ever buy another from ccp when someone out there has a better one, plus the bpo holder can crank out researched bpcs.i suspect the \"blueprints\" sold in dust will be more like bpcs than bpos."
"good idea - it opens up a new source mineral market as well. ie requirement me to buy components from dust 514 to make my designer clothingthe price in aurrum could be low but the process in building it could be a challenge, making it a rare item to purchase and there for heavily coveted.i like your thinking."
"crap now i have to buy some cloth, get me podded and see what happens ...just to get the facts straight ..."
"so if i have the clothes on i dont loose them?but what if a transport them in my cargo... surely they must drop like plex does right!?!?!?!?oh and i 100% support this topic! death to magic!!! give us bpc!"
"hmm good question, so now i have to buy 2 cloth items, argh ..."
"in the [crowd source] microtransactions vote thread, i voted for cosmetic items mt only, with some requirements. but the reply i ended up writing was so long it turned into a thread of its own. i was trying to explain my views on the market and my worries about mt systems in eve. i've read a lot of arguments lately for and against mt in a competitive non f2p mmo, but i feel that the core issue is not being stressed enough: the ability to turn cash into ingame wealth or power. isk, not just power items. so in this thread i'll explain my understanding of the eve market and the effects of cash flowing into the game. i'll also explain why i feel that ccp can't control the cash to isk market the way they seem to intend, and i'll propose an alternative mt system that includes a control by the player base and market. i haven't played this game as long as some of you may have, so i know i sure as hell don't know everything. if you feel that i'm wrong, then please enlighten everyone and let's at least have a discussion about the market for cash to isk trading in eve and vanity items mt.and to anyone who takes the effort, thanks for reading *give me a minute, posting the rest asap"
"i believe plex only worked (read: didn't break the game while allowing ppl to trade cash for isk(power)) because it was a contained market with a built-in control. because plex was only good for game time the (real) demand for plex was relative to the percentage of the eve population willing to trade isk for game time (except for some market manipulation by players). another good argument for plex was that cash for ingame money trading is going to happen in any mmo, so you may as well have some oversight and control over it. the amount of cash flowing into the game through plex hasn't broken the game for me and that amount would only have increased relative to the eve populations' growth (and the popularity of game time for isk). i'm against cash for power or ingame money in any comptetitive non-f2p mmo, but even i thought the plex system was pretty ingenious.now ccp wants to introduce some more cash to isk markets in the game. i know that's not what they're \"meant\" to be, but they facilitate it. i'm not against that as long as it's equally limited and there's a strong control in place. i think there's enough room in eve for a little bit more cash to isk features because i believe eve players will be able to adapt and overcome a slight isk advantage that a cash->isk trader might have. also the fun these features might add to the game could be worth it, like being able to buy game time for isk is pretty awesome.vanity items work great for players as there's no competitive advantage and they work great for ccp because of their relatively low development cost (and there's no subscriptions lost like with plex). i'm worried though that enlarging the market for cash to isk items (plex and aur items) could imbalance the game. it's undeniable that the percentage of the eve population that would buy vanity items for isk if they were available at reasonable prices is much larger than the percentage willing to buy game time for isk.so without the self-regulation through demand mechanism that plex had the only control left for the flow of cash to isk through the aur items market is through controlling aur items supply. if that really is the plan i very much wonder how much supply they're planning on. because in order to keep the game balanced that way they may have to either:a. make plex prices very low to saturate the market quickly: that's a no go i'd think!b. keep plex/aur items very expensive: doesn't really fix the problem and will probably just cause discontent.c. keep plex/aur item supply far below demand: would put a domper on mt sales and annoy the players who now really want their vanity items.so in my opinion they can't control the market through aur item supply alone. i believe the only way to control the flow of cash to isk is to tie it directly to either an activity or the growth of the eve population with a ratio that the eve universe can cope with. with microtransactions i believe that control should be required items for each microtransaction that have to be earned through an ingame activity or traded on the player market. if you couple microtransaction items to ingame earned items you make the eve universe adapt in order to accommodate the coming inflow of cash. any item that is added through microtransactions has already been \"worked\" for ingame and the price of a mt-required item on the player market would be relative to the price of its finished mt'd product (minimizing cash to isk profit). ofcourse that would break one of the important ideas behind microtransactions: saving yourself the trouble of earning things."
"so this is where i ask ccp to be bold as they claim they are. try and think outside the popular mt box for eve. there are two big differences from the standard f2p mt model anyway; you've got lots of paying subscribers and the eve crowd is not your average mmo crowd. if anything, eve is about earning stuff ingame through dedication of time and effort, more than any mmo i've played so far. i think eve players are happy to put in a little bit of work, and will still be just as excited about the exclusive vanity items that mt offers them.this approach would provide several controls with which the player market can be allowed to incorporate mt-items and eventually find the right prices. mt required item spawn rates can be managed and a price can be set for the required items reprocessed materials (or an npc hand-in reward). in the case of disruptive market manipulation by players, like artificial scarcity over a longer period, the spawn rates can be adjusted upwards to compensate. in case of market saturation, reprocessing the required item or handing the item in to an npc for a reward should be more profitable than selling the required item on the player market. with varying supply and shortages due to required item spawn rates and market activity you can add a whole layer of trading, collecting and combining gameplay to mt. a gameplay mechanic of its own that doesn't affect the balance of power.that would solve the issues with anything \"appearing out of thin air\", supply and demand of the aur items market would be controlled through the eve population and the exchange rate (profitability) for cash to isk could be managed through plex and aur store prices. ccp could manually change the cost of plex/aur items or link aur item prices to the required items market to throttle the amount of cash to isk flowing into the game. such a link could mean for instance that ccp would lower the aur price of an mt-item if its required item is abundant on the market, and raise the price when it becomes scarce again. if ccp could find the right price for required items' reprocessed minerals (or npc rewards), the right spawn rate for required items and the right price/exchange rate for aur store items, i think the eve universe would very well balance itself out around vanity items microtransactions.funny part of it is: ccp would have paying subscribers working for them making them even more money, while they're having fun!final note: ive not discussed dust in this post because i dont really know yet how exactly it will tie into the ingame economy. i think another thread would be more appropriate for that discussion though.and if anyone got this far, thanks for reading!"
"this"
"there are already posts on this topic, but i support the cause!"
"while i support this topic in that i'm not a fan of such convenience items being added. this is not related to the micro-transaction issue. as long as aurum can be acquired with isk, features such as this are available to players willing to spend real money and also to player who aren't, they can simply save up and grab the extra features with isk. that being said, this issue needs to be judged on it's merits, apart from any micro-transaction issues, and even then i don't think it holds up."
"an excellent point - i've played plenty of games that had built-in inconvenience purely to drive sales of \"convenience items\" myself.no, the first thing the csm should raise is getting an absolute, concrete \"no, there will never be any in-game advantages (including but not limited to: better ships, modules, weapons, ammunition, boosters, and implants) sold via microtransactions\". no \"there are no plans\". no \"at this time\"s. no weasel words. no laywerisms. an outright, clear, concise statement."
"emptyquotin'"
"we need a flat out no from ccp on this idea as well.no \"inconvenience by design\", therefore no \"convenience\" mts.if the inconvenience is something players will want to get rid of, fix the game design with the $50m/year in sub fees - don't charge more to not fix it.supported"
"+1now you are giving them way too many dangerous ideas.but you are right i can see them capping fittings somewhere but a reasonable limit based on actual technical constraints would probably be closer to 1000 or higher.it is hardly about the storage space"
"oh yeah, convenience-based mt will keep me un-subbed. +1"
"got my vote, though i'd still rather see mt removed completely."
"very good points. supported."
"agreed, i find this sort of behavior from software companies very distasteful, even more so for a product for which i have already paid. it's as if i purchased a full version of photoshop only to have to see constant pop-ups for illustrator and other nag ads. i've paid my cover charge to the party and bought nearly six years worth of drinks. tipping the man in the bathroom for a towel is optional, if it is not optional, then don't be surprised when i relieve my self on the dance floor."
"well in the case of blobs, logistics would be necessary to essentially keep the gate open, say a group of 25 ships have 5 logistics ships, under my model, those 5-8 logistics ships could help to move the 25 man gang relatively un-hindered. say there is a giant gang on gate and you have a small invading force, it makes the roles of scouts much more important. finding alternate routes as an attacking force, that sort of thing. and, when you start pwning face the campers cant just jump through.shooting down an idea on a basis that it will create bugs means theres something wrong with the game not the idea..."
"essentially shooting down an idea based on putting arbitrary mechanics in game, because you can not figure out how to over come the issues when others can, is a great reason."
"gatecamps will now have people on both sides constantly jumping through to deplete the capacitor. unless you can tell if a gate is capped out from across system... goodbye buzzard and viator.additionally, you encourage more static pvp since people would rather have other people jump into their fleet rather than jump their fleet into others in ones and twos.it would also be a good idea to have a mechanism is place so that people can tell what the cap level on gate is."
"-1horrible idea, if you can afford to spend extra real life money on the game you should just get another account. that gives you 3 extra char slots and an extra training queue.skill transfer and especially the combination of these is even worse, since it"
"excluding the transfer idea, your basically arguing against extra accounts period. if you don't like that people can train two characters at once, then you must really not like people being able to train two characters and play those two characters at once. so your argument is at heart contradictory with itself. i'll give you the transfer though, i don't like the possibility that people might eventually be able to pay money to get skills. however, if it must happen, if ccp is going to do it, i want it done in such a way that someone somewhere invested the time in training the skills that are going to be sold. this limits the supply(meaning no matter how much money you have there will be an in game bottle neck that can not be overcome with money), which in turn will increase the perceived value and above all preserves the status quot. you might say that if they can pay for extra accounts, they can easily overcome the bottle neck. you forget that the skills have prerequisites. i can't use two characters to get minmatar cruisers level 1 in half the time. for either character to get to minmatar cruiser level 1, both would need minmatar frigate at the appropriate level. now you could have one work on gunnery, and the other work on minmatar cruiser, but the moment any skill is transferred off the character you've got to cover that ground again on that character to get to the next skill up. so using two characters to get skills in half the time only works up to the point you start transferring. it can be done, but at enormous cost. you have to pay for a transfer blank for every skill you want to transfer and you have to pay for an alternate account or additional training queue for the duration of that training. in the end you have one character that can do one role at a time, which might have otherwise been two or three or four characters that together would be capable of completely owning that one character. i also think most people willing to p2w will not have the patience to wait on cashing out their training mule to get to the really high end stuff. i think this transfer idea will carrot our dear rmt'ers right over a cliff and leave a large chunk of money in ccp's wallet. meanwhile the rest of us have a way to correct minor training mistakes while making a little isk if we need to. or to sell off skills we simply don't want anymore. this part i think plays into the lore of the game.again however, the fact remains that we are confronted with the possibility that ccp might simply put skill points on the market in exchange for money. period. no training queue, no waiting period at all. you may not want my idea, but surely you don't want that idea even more? as i've pointed out, i'm trying to turn nightmarish outcomes into more tolerable alternatives. can i at least get a lesser of two evils vote while denouncing both possibilities?"
"after this last week's emotional rollercoaster and digesting all the available info, i've finally bent in to the desire to write this thread op (despite my better judgement).======table of contents:------1.0 -> disclaimer1.1 -> purpose2.0 -> introduction2.1 -> bulletpoints3.0 -> arguments3.1 -> granularity3.2 -> exclusives3.3 -> the character creator4.0 -> end points4.1 -> conclusion4.2 -> shoutouts======-1.0- -disclaimer-no doubt if you've even bothered to crack open this thread, you're either for or against incarna(ge, or monoclegeddon?), and will without a hint of further reading likely attempt to derail this thread so that it may join the ocean of other derailed threads;please refrain from doing so, at least until you've read me out (unless you're scared a 3 year old 'newbie' like myself might change your mind). it's been said elsewhere, but honestly - if you've ever had any love for eve, you would realise that at this point you're only hurting it more than it is hurting you.however, if you are genuinely a lover of eve online, i welcome you to read on, and eventually make a constructive comment, even if this thread only ever gets it's one page and is swiftly forgotten in the depths of the assembly hall or is trolled into oblivion.------1.1-this thread's main purpose is to outline some ideas for how the aur store can/could be turned into something remotely acceptable.obviously we are almost all in agreement that aur store merchandise should never go beyond vanity items (/allcaps, exclamation mark); so with that out of the way, here are my points of view on a few points the csm might want to consider bringing up to ccp on the topic of the aur 'micro'transaction store.-----=====------2.0- -introduction-currently the aur store only accepts one kind of payment by design, and that is aur. the purpose of aur is to 'granulate' plex as to create a 'plex sink' out of desireability for the offered items. this is currently not the case, as nigh on all of the store items cost more than their real life counterparts. indeed, any item in the aur store which costs more than 1 plex is a redundant item, as the store might as well just charge plex instead of aur. because of this, my proposal revolves around redesigning the aur store to accomodate for \"multiple requirements for the sale of a vanity item\", such as faction lp and standings to name a few.------2.1- bulletpointsso, to satisfy the 'bulletpoint quota', here are some bulletpoints:- redesign the aur store so that: - all items cost less than 1 plex worth of aur (optional: increase aur value of plex for added granularity?) - exclusive items should require additional conditions [section 3.2, see below for specifics] - basic vanity items should require basic, easy to complete conditions. - all items aur prices should not directly devide or multiply into 3500.- do not reimburse currently purchased items, people made a preemtive investment - market damage control has never worked irl.- itterate on the character creator, so that we are no longer dependant on it for anything but our passport photos! - make vanity items destroyable in some way, either through podding/ship loss/station- or sov flipping. - make our character photos be more passport photos, less 'real time representation'.-----=====-----"
"-3.0--arguments-some of the above may need some explaining.------3.1- granularityas stated above (in part 2.0), the purpose of aur is to granulate plex, and anything costing more than 1 plex worth of aur is redundant. however, due to the nature of the cur"
"the solution? make any non ordinary and basic items in the nex require additional conditions. it really is almost that simple, as it turns the 'rich sucker' navy jackets into status and acheivment symbols (and we all know everyone is secretly an acheivmentist). for example:caldari navy 'captain' ceremonial jacket: -aur199 -caldari captain rank in faction warfare required -2000 caldari navy lpwith the above pricetag, the jacket in question could even be given as a faction warfare reward uppon rank aquisition!all of a sudden, you stand out from the crowd; what you wear shows your status in new eden.and say you get demoted, or even fired? well you can still wear the jacket, but it won't let you into that 'caldari militia exclusive' bar anymore, even less it's captain+ area (also notice how now it isn't a vanity item, but because it is reasonably priced - affordable and somewhat exclusive, and can be awarded through other means than the aur store, it is much more acceptable than if it was aur only). this idea could and should be implemented for all non basic vanity items (how much would you pay for an awesome guristas monocle? too bad you don't have the standings! :evil laughter:). just as ship modules have faction variants, the basic nex store items need faction variants, even if it is just another colour or slight model change. when was there ever a notion of the incarna environment purposely being any different from the rest of eve?the bottom line of this point is: wis feels like something that isn't eve, one major contributor is that there is no requirement for incarna features as of this moment to rely on the rest of the features (and vice versa). change that! the two environments should be playable independantly, but should also reward those willing to use both! if ccp is scared that people will not use a feature, make it worth our while!------3.3- the character creatori have a bone or two to pick with it (dev pun intended).yes, the character creator ccp has developed with their carbon tech resources is amazing, but it also has it's imperfections.currently, the nex vanity items are indestructible. if you are podded with your monocle, it doesn't dissapear. this is a problem, as these vanity items are also on the market. the market for anything indestructible is doomed to eventually fail as supply increases and demand decreases (less people will want one as everyone already has one, suddenly the ones without monocles stand out).make vanity items destructible, but also less of an incentive to gank (current monocle wearers beware, 'they' are out to get you).the character recustomisation should only be used for our photos, not our real time avatars. changeing clothes outside of the recustomisation session should be as easy as refitting a ship: simply stand infront of your mirror and drag a piece of clothing onto your avatar. rescustomisation should be kept as a passport photo opportunity/updater. i'm sure no one in their right mind always wears what they had on 5+ years ago when they took their last passport photo. here is the catch though. make the passport photo update automatically every time you add time to your account. this is for both lore, and practicality reasons. for starters, it means that someone who 'loaned' a monocle for their photo and then resold it only has it until his next liscence renewal (there's the lore refrence, when you update your liscence, you need to submit a new photo, nifty, no?). on a practicality level, since you already save the expressions, lighting and pose, automating the entire process for each character once a month shouldn't be a big problem for the briliant ai programmers at ccp."
"additionally, with direct implications to this, add an option on the cq mirror to access the garderobe (you know, the clothes dresser?), which would basically be a real time catalogue of all your accessible accessories (like a station item hangar but for clothes).issues that this solves:- jumping clones.- getting podded with vanity clothes.- changeing clothes without changeing your general appearance.damn, this is turning into a long post, just a bit more to go though...-----=====------4.0--end points-------4.1- conclusionright now, being ccp has got to be incredibly stressing. it's a hard job to develop and push out these expansions. unfortunately the perfect fuel was added to the perfect storm, which lead to an apocalypse of before never seen outrage in the community. trade hubs were locked down with protesters, rendering the game often unbearable to play in the long run for a lot of us. a now over 400 page threadpocalypse/threadtitan of rage was created in the process. the fact that leaked info was made public by en24 at the same time made the situation so volatile it literally exploded. ccp took a while to realise just how much anger they were dealing with, it rivaled and probably even surpassed the t20 incident, which (as we should know) prompted the creation of the csm. just don't let that get to your head, ever. as players and customers, yes. we are powerful - but with great power comes great ponies/responsability; so if you want to ride the white pony, realise it might evolve into a horse and throw you off it's back.------4.2- shoutoutsto the csm:i trust your competancy completely, and i know that as much as mittens 'doesn't care about' some or all of these things, he is the chairman and will do the right things in the end. likewise to the rest of the csm: show ccp the light at the end of the tunnel - just don't let it be a fenrir freighter on colision course with their sturdy ship.to ccp:i don't know how your current methods of communication with the playerbase work on an internal level, but i would heavily suggest that you rethink them. as was mentioned elsewhere, starting a monthly q&a newsletter in the shape of a devblog would be a huge step in the right direction. preferably, create an eve gate feature to let players send their questions reliably and easily (it also makes eve gate more useful, the lack thereof being the primary reason so few use it to begin with). this last week has been nothing less than public relations-ageddon, don't ever let it repeat itself again (at least keep that mindset).don't get me wrong, i'm angry at you for releasing incarna as unfinished as it is, despite whatever release shedule you had in mind, this is borderline 'incomplete feature that should only be on sisi/duality right now'. but i'm also more than willing to forgive you for all the mess if you let us help you clean it up.to the community:chill out! ccp screwed up- admittedly big time, but it's time to put down the pitchforks and torches and to show everyone that you are capable of something other than rageing like spoilt brats in a toy store. show ccp what makes the eve community great, show them why we love eve and keep it dearly in our heart. we are all scared of what eve might devolve into if handled incorrectly (see ea/sony), but now that ccp has decided on what it's next steps are (flying the csm to iceland for the 2nd ever emergency meeting in the history of eve) it is time to take a step back, take a deep breath, and take a fresh look at the situation.i started blameing ccp initially, but now it's the community which is starting to look immature and irresponsibly hell bent on destruction. are you?!thank you for reading all of the above (assuming you did). you may now tell me how much of a ccp alt/supporter/naive person i appear to be. or maybe you'll actually support this and prove how wrong i am in assuming the forum community only rages."
"i don't know if 4 posts can be considered an op, but uhh... flame on!edit: oh... i almost forgot! do feel free to add your 'support' to this thread if you so desire. the option is right by your reply/edit text box. thanks?"
"the thing i'd like to ask you is:is the game better because these involve aur instead of isk/lpdoes ccp really need this extra cashflow to develop eve?is this cashflow going to go to eve at all?"
"imo, no, yes, and no, in that order."
"the game does not nescessarily become better because the nex involves aur instead of isk or lp (or any other payment for that matter). however, i strongly feel that for anything that is off the general market (and is hence somewhat exclusive), no one currency should dominate. the existing lp stores charge tags, misc items, as well as lp and isk. isk, by it's very definition is the base currency of eve online, no general transaction should not involve it - aur or otherwise. isk should be the majority cost of an item, with aur/lp/anything else as a token side fee (if we're talking about creating items out of thin air; upgrades like the iw scorp should either come as paintbuckets for maybe a dozen aur, some isk, a faction standing with ishukone requirement, or as the ship itself with the prior requirements plus a base scorpion)ccp does need this extra cashflow to develop it's three currently in development titles: dust 514, wod and ofcourse eve online (eve is still in development, durr). there has been multiple threads on this in the general discussions part of the forum. right now however, i'd rather point people to buy things from the real eve store than the noble exchange (because you can get a real eve t-shirt for 20$ ).as an extention of that, the cashflow will probably not go to eve alone. it is logical to assume that it would go to whereever ccp needs it most."
"i still say get rid of mt altogether. lp stores are the appropriate place for clothing and trinkets. if players want to earn them sooner, they can buy plex to get better ships and mods in order to complete more missions/fw in their available playtime.however if the mt store is here to stay - ugg - then the op has some decent ideas."
"thank you, it's nice to know i'm not a fundamentally flawed individual!i severely doubt that the so called 'mt store' will be removed, ccp wanted/needed a plex sink (a way that isn't adding game time to your account but still removes plex from the game - see the 'recent' change to plex that let you put them in your cargo hold and move them!) so that the ammount of plex created (ie. ammount of 15$ sent to ccp for a plex) increases. indeed, right now, ccp probably makes a large percentage of it's money from plex! i say this because there is a much larger potential for multiple subscriptions values to be consumed with plex by a single player than without plex. someone might fund their account with their credit card, and supply their character with isk with plex, all of a sudden this person has doubled or even trippled his contribution to ccp!edit: some random guesstimates:- right now there are over 2500 plex on the open market, that's 37500$ worth of plex.- most of these are in the quantity range of 1-2 units.- the daily movement is about 260 last i checked, so that means that every day 4000$ of plex are put up for sale. that's 117,000$ a month."
"hooray for xg! <3 (you forgot to tick the support this topic box mate)"
"i really want a top hat and a cane.and before someone think i'm a troll, i'm actually dead serious. people don't seem to understand that i want my character to be stylish."
"the so called \"stinking rich\" players do supply plex to the market, but adding more supply of an item with a roughly fixed demand does not increase prices, it lowers them. the more people who buy plex with cash, the lower the value of plex in isk.to bring things back on topic, i would like to see the option to activate the skill queue on a second character on the same account for the price of a plex. you 'd still be paying the equivalent of a second account but would simplify the \"book keeping\" as such."
"race and gender change.seeing as for some time race/school/bloodline has meant nothing in relation to attributes, and how incarna changed the aesthetic of every race it seems only right to give people a do-over, albeit a purchasable one for a reasonable price, 12k aurum. and yes, in the sandbox mt should be kept to vanity items only. the instant anything slightly game changing becomes attainable even indirectly through real money, it ceases to be a sandbox and player driven economy."
"ship decals would be nice, nothing says you're screwed quite like a giant flaming 666 on the side of an armageddon with a cruiser sized skull plastered on the front."
"well ... why not a poker mini-game (sort of) with very moderate and limited aurum-bets ?or an enhanced 'jump clone' upgrade with a 16/8/4h jump timer ? just raw thinking ..."
"corp paint jobs.corp pays a great deal to have a crop paint job. talking 100x monical cost.corp pays a lot for corp logo's players can put on ships. logo placed in 2 slots. costs 10x monical cost.costs a lot but once purchased each corp member only pays a bit of isk or some other resource to use it."
"a button that makes leaving your pod and enter cq optionala monocle that lets you see all characters in station without clothes, think about the performance boost the client will get if it doesn't have to render all those clothes.or maybe services, like a killboard or a skillplanner i think there will be a big demand for those when the free tools are no longer being developed because people have to pay to do that."
"clothing that doesn't look like it came from an over-priced thrift store.back in the day, when we made characters, we had a whole slew of different gadgets that could be put on them. a lot of head gizmos. more of that. maybe add other things along those same lines. there are multiple layers of clothing for the torso, i could imagine backpack-type things. gloves with gadgets and flashing lights. i was expecting futuristic but i see grunge.various customizable uniforms (uniforms that have corp/alliance logos on them). maybe throw a bone to the militias by making uniforms that show their rank."
"i do not support selling game changing services such as faction and sp resets. bad idea all round :-("
"the option to remove every single trace of rmt in eve. removing aurum from the wallet, removing the stupid button in station services and removing the showcase (\"incarna\"). everything else is just pure stupid and only stupid people will buy stuff from the vanity store."
"would it be possible to add the same payment options to the plex system that eve has for account renewal?hello csm,i am not sure if this point has been proposed before, i did not find it anywhere. i've run into this issue on several moments, really when i feel like buying a plex. the only way to currently buy these through eve is by creditcard or some odd system which seems to work for russians. would it be possible to add the same payment options open for account renewal, to the plex system?i am sure it would make buying plexes much more accessible to many people like me, not owning a creditcard but fine to pay with the other options like directly through ones bank. it would seem like a minor change in my view but i do expect ccp has it under different branches because of the different workings. i feel if ccp looks at how many people pay for their monthly renewal in otherways than creditcards, they should be able to imagine the possible increase in plex sales.thank you for your time,zav."
"nice! would work for me as poor student *bump*"
"yeah, i see no problem making plex easier to buy with a variety of payment methods."
"yup, benefit for both parties, ccp gets more isk (less need for odd changes for the sake of money, though i want to avoid relating this proposal to any recent change *cough*), and we the players can buy plex's with not 2 methods, but 7."
"when cq is disabled, we should be shown the old station view rather than the current picture of a door...apologies if this has been said before, i did look but couldn't immediately see anything."
"yeah it has been brought up extensively, but other topics have since bumped it down. however it's by no means a dead topic - myself and a great deal of other players want cq and wis to be 100% optional, with the old hanger being the option, not the door."
"here is some suggestions of what i would like you do in iceland in very broad terms.start by demanding the complete removal of aur and all forms of player->cpp transaction for any in-game things other then subscription time. the subscription we pay should include everything that is in eve period.this will of course fail, but in negations you don't start with the compromise you are hoping to get out of it...once it is clear ccp will not remove aur and you can't get any more attention for those demands i would like you to demand the following:1. ccp should clearly promise that eve will continue to use subscriptions as it's primary funding mechanism.2. ccp should provide product content labelling that is easy to find and that shows exactly what in game features and items are included in the subscription and what you will have to pay extra for.3. ccp must state that they are still committed to the eve sandbox model and still have the long term goal they pushed when launching planetary interaction: that everything in eve should be built by players from player harvested resources.4. ccp must promise to not sell pay2win spaceships items. vanity items, new player time limited boosters and similar (as long as it is compatible with demands above) is as far as we will tolerate mt to go.5. and ofc put the ship spinning back.there should be 3 options you can choose from on what happens when you dock. a = spinning shipb = static intractable ship background (like do not load station environment option worked before incarna)c = automatic un-podding into incarna enviroment. option a and b you need to click a button to un-pod and enter cq. it doesn't matter which option is set as default as long as we get them.i would like to know what everyone thinks of this. if you only support some of the points i have made please indicate with number and opinion. like 1y, 2n..."
"works for me."
"sorry if ccp sort out this mess we will be comming back"
"o/ bye"
"take you well deserved break.please quit the game immediatelyonce ccp has change the game for the better.return refreshed when the game has been allowed to evolve. eve grows with the tools handed to us, not the story content that is created for us to read like world of war craft. they need the ability to brain storm and this document shows it. ccp is willing to take into consideration of the opinions of several conflicting opinions to open doors to do stuff is the sign of a company who has potential.i am personally looking forward when the work completed on dust 514 and realm of darkness feeds back onto eve because of carbon.ccp has already taken assets from the realms of darkness and feed them into the epic arc of eve.micro transactions: can only benefit eve as those $$ carrying rich boys and girls carry the cost of the game because they wanted to stand out with a new monical."
"no"
"edit - fixed for readability :)ok, i know there are tons of threads like this but here is my view of this subject and what i think should be carefully discussed by csm with ccp this week. and what i dont care about, and can be left alone. 1. nex pricesdont care.if you dont like that you cant afford a vanity item then its your problem. this ought to be for the few that need their e-pen enlarged.2. nex products like ishikune scorpionnow this is more problematic.i'm all ok with idea that we get a normal ship just with different visual face.what i want to stress though is how we can get them. - it have to be exchange - something + aur = sparkling something - it should be bpc not item that we trade, therefore it will not only be about getting already made scorpion and trade for ishikune version, but maybe trading bpc for a bpc of ishikune version. this allow more flexible prices for new ships. - i dont care how many plexes it will cost.3. nex potential items like \"gold ammo\".there are some arguments, that if this would produce bpc (just like the faction store) it would be like faction store, so some would sell it and market will be full of those, so anyone can use it.wrong.facton store is limited to the ammount of players holding standing and enough lp to buy. now unless the price would be extreemly high (to high to use it actually) the market would be flooded with thiose ammo/modules/whatever probably making t2/faction version not only innefective but also to expensive. everyone would use the cheep, all avaible uber version.4. nex potential services like faction standing, remaps, etc...out of questionanything, that gives one player advantage of any sort, no matter how small, not only in terms of pvp but also in terms of character progress or pve mission access should not be even considered. 5. nex potential game upgrades, like additional clones, command screen in cq(new game features avaible only to aur clients or expanding already avaible features by rising existing limits)as long as this will not touch fis part of game i'm willing to listen to proposals. it can affect gameplay in incarna to some level, but without some sort of proposals i can not say. but i say no!!! to any gameplay aditions that will benefit aur players over others, even if only by easing interface usage. this opens road to dangerous path of removing content and selling it via aur.if i miss something i will add later./discuss"
"this, mt is ok if it stays vanity only, the price ranges are not my concer, since im not gona buy anything of that store"
"supporting my own proposal"
"i agree with this, mt is ok, i will never buy from the mt store, but if not doing so means i cant ever win because someone else has bought an item from the store, then im out. and before anyone brings up plex, plex is not an in-game advantage, considering it means they can play for free, but doesnt make them better at pvp, and since the plex still costs in-game money, it is still costing them, just out of a different wallet.in short, mt vanity good, anything else pure evil."
"thanks for the support."
"i hope this topic isn't burried by the anger topics above. it's a nice idea which can be looked at as an addition to buying characters plus will make more people come back or get their alts playing again."
"this ui suport ito hope that nto brat on top on ader topic"
"interesting concept, altho i think there are more pressing matters at hand."
"there are always more pressing matters at handsupported"
"thanks for the reply'si ofcourse forgot about training queues.like it is today you can only have one concurrent active training queue per account, thus only one concurrent character with active training.in proposal it would be like this:concurrent logins = concurrent active training queueshope this is clear enough.please ask if something is not clear, and feel welcome to add or disagree with my idea.regards"
"can the csm please bring up that a lot of players would like the cq to be optional?cq is great but i don't need it every time i dock. i stop by for a quick ammo or shield recharge and i get out of my pod? why would i do that?or my alt docks up to drop of slavage and cq loads up just to drop off stuff. why woudl my character get out of the ship.cq is great and will be better still but i don't need it everytime i dock. also cq>ship spinning."
"as a caldari at heart and actualy feeling gallente as close relatives (read this as fan for caldari and gallente races inside eve as a game) hybrids are either best guns (read here blasters) or worse guns (read as rails.). all other guns have better overal dps ragarding medium long range then their hybrid counter parts.eve is a large universe, and i'm amazed how well is actually ballanced considering there isn't much testing grounds on other servers like all other mmos run, nor there is much experience with this kind of sandbox before eve went live."
"+1i've always loved the look of the hyperion. i think it should be given a role like the fleet typhoon. give it a nice drone bay, some missile bonus as well as gun bonus. make it a unique ship and skill intensive to pilot.then we can move on and add lots "
"i like the idea to think over the hyperion.i love drones so i think the idea is great to give it the opportunity to use like 7-8 sentries.on the other hand why not leave away the armor repping and give it next to the guns the counter bonuses to a scorpion? make it an anti ecm ship that has a certain resistance to ecm measures.that would be interesting for pvp but as well for pve agains guristas - bit tweaking on the energy and cpu might me necessary."
"terrible idea. there are already many l4 mission farmers that are way too rich, and crash mineral and module prices anyways. t2 salvage would un-balance the market, and crash the price of t2 rigs."
"no.mushrooms?"
"a major part of my isk comes from highsec mission running but even i disagree with the proposal. lowsec is risk vs isk, it should stay that way."
"no.missions are predictable and if you're losing your ship you are either overconfident or doing it wrong. with a couple of fairly skilled toons (plus an optional salvage toon) level 4's are easy to tank and hard to fail. ccp was right to restrict t2 salvage to t2 ship wrecks and low/nullsec sites."
"obviously you haven't noticed faction rats still spawn in hisec both in belts (rare) and in anomalies and exploration sites, not to mention mag sites still yield t2 salvage in hisec, the odds are about what you're asking for here.that's right, back away from the raven and your textbook mission running and get into something with some competition."
"^^ possibly one of the most intelligent posts in all of the forums...they didn't actually lie (and incase you didn't read the other replies in this thread - they certainly didn't break any promises either as they never actually made a promise in the first place... they merely said it wasn't their plan.. plans change)(i have a habit of correcting people i know ..lol.. )"
"plans have changed./threadreally, how many times can we get back to this shadow's quote. come on!"
"players: that's not part of our deal!ccp: i am altering the \"deal\". pray i don't alter it any further."
"perhaps \"we have no plans to\" translates roughly to....\"we hadn't thought of that yet, but now that you mentioned we can charge for it, we'll add it to the queue\" +1 for community involvement."
"i concur"
"one of the most tedious part of war is the act of adding all known war targets to the watch list and removing them when the war is over.it both consumes player time in unfun and unproductive activity and server resources, both when updating lists and when sending notifications.my proposal is to add a corporation (and/or alliance) level watch list, updatable only by directors (or some new role), that would be automatically be part of all members watch list.the tedious part is thus centralized and divided by the size of the corporation, and server optimizations could certainly be found.standings already work like that, since both standings and watchlist are used as a common intel tool, adding the same functionality for watchlists would be coherent."
"i'm a day behind on reading zulu's blog, my bad, but after i cancelled my account, i've only been checking on things to see how things turn out, not so much to play all the time.to my point...fearless and the \"it's just a rag to discuss ideas\"; it's not facts... yet.i actually believe this, but look deeper.who is arguing the plus and who is arguing the negatives?you have a guy in the con department who shreads data and makes spreadsheets all day saying mt for greed is bad.vs.you have one of the lead game designers still actually working on eve (the spaceship parts, they're still separate in my book) arguing on the plus side.let's pretend that he was given this side but doesn't believe it, who picked him for that argument? and why the massive disparity job classifications? oh yes, all equal, i'm sure.spreadsheet monkey vs. lead game designer.lackey or lead.i hope the csm drills in on this point when they're in iceland this week."
"conspiracy theory?"
"this is the first time i have posted, or even visited, this section of the forums, but i had thought of something in regards to the nex store. i posted it in the comments thread for zulu's latest blog, and will post it here for convenience.we (the players through the csm) need to be very specific about the future of the nex. and make sure that ccp is the same. i don't mean getting rid of it, that won't happen since they put a lot of resources into development. however, i do see ccp stating for now that they will not introduce items that will produce an in game advantage. but i don't think that will cover all of the possibilities. here is what i can see happening.ccp, and the csm, will come to the agreement, like i said above, and most of the players will be satisfied. but, about a year down the road, when dust is due to release, or right after, pirate faction tower bpcs will show up in the nex. (and i would hate to see the rl $ cost on those, after all how much is a rl skysc****r?) there will be a lot of minor gripes and forum rage, but most people will be happy that they can now get them again.ccp's response will be something along the lines of, \"we did not introduce anything that provides an in game advantage, the towers are already in the game.\" most people will be satisfied with this answer, because well, its true. then other items will be reintroduced and accepted for the same reason. and soon after that will be the p2w items.yes, this may be a conspiracy theory, but i can see ccp doing this. please get them to agree to if something has in game stats, it will not be sold in the nex. we can't allow them wiggle room, or loopholes that they can say, \"we didn't go back on our word. see?\" thank you for taking the time to read this, if you did. i'm not really saying this will happen, but i can see them doing it."
"the csm is irrelevant, ccp will do whatever it is they want to do. the csm is just a pr expense.other than that, i am for one are for being able to buy pretty much anything via nex and i don't see any type of problem with it, neither do the thousands of other players who aren't going all emo on the forums.improvise, adapt, overcome ..., or walk away (which you and all the other forum warriors won't do). simple as that."
"i say nooooo"
"no different to any other politician. i often wonder why people even bother voting for these csms tbh, no-one can actually point to anything any of the past 5 csms have \"achieved\" that ccp weren't going to do anyway."
"i have zero confidence in the csm. they are paper tigers at best, ccp yes wo/men at worst.all of the csm should resign but dang it those free holidays to iceland sure are nice, huh?"
"oh yeah, getting 4 days notice to fly to iceland for a couple of days is sweet. i don't really understand the \"you should all resign\" thing. what do you think that would accomplish? right now, one of the biggest problems is that ccp just plain doesn't understand why you are upset. the only way that will change is by people *talking* to them. that is why we are going."
"the ****? i don't even eat seafood."
"i agreed, need to take out some of the penalty maybe divide the sec loss by 10 and then it evened up and make eve a bit more favorable."
"um, yeah. notes anyone?"
"good question, altough there are more pressing matters right now"
"must be on ccp hands now. and given the timing and situation, i think we'll have them after the minutes of the exceptionnal summit"
"can the csm please bring up that a lot of players would like the cq to be optional?cq is great but i don't need it every time i dock. i stop by for a quick ammo or shield recharge and i get out of my pod? why would i do that?or my alt docks up to drop of slavage and cq loads up just to drop off stuff. why woudl my character get out of the ship.cq is great and will be better still but i don't need it everytime i dock. also cq>ship spinning"
"i think it was confirmed that if you pod someone with a monocle they lose it. not sure thougheithe way i still stand on my pointscq optionalno cash for eve itemsvanity only forever and always in eve and incarna.the other things are basically icing n the cake, and would show that ccp is listening, also the mission thing is annoying, i cant do even a lvl 3 in a drake now cause being jammed for 2 hours isnt fun"
"here's my wish list from the csm in iceland. details in the original thread. summary in brief - what id like to see the csm seek from ccp in iceland:1. commitment to restore the pre-incarna hanger view as an absolute development priority.2. serious consideration given to vanity-items (nex) being produced as blueprints with player input required for manufacturing finished product.3. commitment to a healthy ratio of traditionally-delivered content items over nex-delivered content items.4. get the truth about dust 514 and come back with a provisional estimation of cost to play. we need to know how this is going to impact our ability to afford and enjoy the game of eve online."
"what i would like to know1. mt for gameplay affecting stuff - clear yes or no. preferrably written in blood or something, not the smooth stuff like \"there will be no golden ammo bcouse our art team made them green already\"2. put the old dock back, 'disembark' button to go to cq3. percentage of manpower and funds that goes to eve development at the moment.4. some longterm plans for eve would be nice to know, it seems there is no clear vision at the moment"
"hey csm, if you want to speak for me, this is it:- there's plenty of content and game mechanics like missions, pos & industry that is full of potential yet in dire need of a major rework (not just random removal of complexity). prevent them from releasing even more, half-baked features! cq is a nice tech demo, but useless and annoying.- no mt a la nex, no vanity items that have not been earned through some kind of honest grind.- plex for isk is perfect, the concept can and should be refined - e.g. split plex into 10 units, and offer different types of 'pilot licenses' for cruisers, bs and caps, see my proposal in jita speaker corner. that way new players could play for less effort than old megabillionaires and multititan/supercap owners."
"i have given this mt business a little more thought.. i think i actually could accept all kinds of items if they were at reasonable prices and if they were blueprints (bpo and/or bpc). if that is done then i wouldn't care if they further down the line placed every npc bpo in the nex (as long as the price is about the same as now). nex would become the market for blueprints. the problem for ccp is of course that bpo for clothes would be very cheap, they can't sell a t-shirt for millions and millions of isk.the drawback is that new players rarely would buy any bpo. anyway, it is imo worth for csm and ccp to ponder if this could lead to anything acceptable."
"i meant for micro transaction. they'll be everywhere there is something to read. \"hey look everybody! 30% off xxx for a limited time only!\" it'll be in the character select screen, the billboards, there will be pop ups. it'll be a nightmare that you cannot escape or turn off. you think they'd let you turn off an advertisement to a source of revenue? it'll kill the game quick."
"the moment they do that... i can probably guess about 50% of player base will leave for perpetuum. aka i don't really think they'll do this anytime soon since everyone know where that would lead."
"to try to define where the boundary is for people on vanity vs. non-vanity mt, i have started a bunch of polls on failheap-challenge. it would really help us, the csm, if people would be willing to go over there and vote and discuss a few possible mt ideas.the forum is"
"i do not like to register on third party forums. i wish this would have been done here. polls are also a narrow option of choices predetermined by the thread maker. you may have better luck asking and tallying the information in a thread here. thanks for the effort. good luck. whats the deal on the notes from last summit? i am hoping csm realizes there is room for improvement on how long it is taking. this should have been finished long before this other matter came up, imo."
"csm if you are the least bit honest you will admit that whatever concessions ccp gives you at this meeting have nothing to do with you. it was due to the players who posted their outrage on these forums. if you joined in those posts then you should be given credit.if you did not join in the outrage then you were just as much part of the problem. you are simply going to be the messenger for any concessions ccp decided to make to the players due to their outrage. ccp isn't calling this conference because of anything you did on your internal forums. it's calling it because of what the players did. they will eventually give you concessions but those concessions will be given because of the players outrage as expressed on the forums. not because of your arguments at this upcoming meeting."
"there are no concessions. the leak was never a concrete plan to begin with. stop patting yourself on the back for nothing. a good percentage of the outrage was people trolling to begin with imo. the csm is supposed to represent us. if they were not going, you would complain about that too i imagine. they are doing what they can and dropping their plans and going. show respect at least for that."
"i wish it could be done here as well, but there is no poll functionality on these forums. i do understand that i will get fewer responses, but some information is always better than none."
"wow, it is a wonder you breathe in the thin atmosphere up there on that high horse.if you think there will be any \"concessions\" made you are in for a rude awakening. ccp has most likely called them to iceland to explain their side of things after they tried doing so twice directly through blogs to no avail.at most they'll cut some 50% off the aur costs on the indestructible luxury items and issue statement with what they have said time and again \"only vanity\" in a language that fevered emo-rager brains can understand.the only thing that was achieved this weekend besides all you \"lol-rioters\" looking like fools on drugs was to let ccp know that mass-hysteria can not be avoided so they'll have to phrase their blogs in very, very simple language.ps: remember to activate your bling two step, gotta have the csm bar or the 'officialness' will be questioned"
"he doesn't get bling because he's an alt. it's a shame because he's one of our best reps and deserves a full slot next year if he runs."
"no bling? what kind of existence is that? .. poor guy.but now the thread at least got it so it is all good"
"i would vote but can't register. i don't get a confirmation email (tried twice). :("
"apreciated, but not good enough. this forum should be the primary means of csm informing and consulting the playerbase. now i have to search the heavens and earth to get to know how the csm feels about stuff. some tweets here, a blog there, a collumn over there, a vague mentioning of forums where you have posted without links to the actual posts (i'm looking at you mittens). blogs, tweets and other forums are fine as secondary means, but plz, try to keep things centralized on the forums that where created for you."
"i couldn't agree more.as the official representative of the player base, csm should be communicating with that player base in a central location. and advertising where that is. it's no good all posting in different places and hoping that people will stumble upon what you've written.you claim to have got internal communication going well, but getting that out to people outside csm is a shambles."
"another request for written minutes of this and i'm starting to feel that the people who represent me to ccp are starting to let me down.let me repeat. i am deaf. i cannot listen to this recording. you mentioned that a transcript might follow, but don't appear to have followed up on. i feel like i am being left out..."
"whilst i agree with the main topics on this thread the thing that really gets me is the eternal beta. things change in everything and i agree that some are good e.g. pi others not so, cq as a glaring example; slow, buggy and not properly thought through. as a grumpy old cynic i never trusted ccp to have my best interests at heart, so the changes that affected me i took in my stride. what really bothers me is the lemming like rush for the cliffs edge of \"new\". change for changes sake, or to be uncharitable, to screw a few more pennies out of us peons. please ccp, slow down, listen to what people are telling you works and what does not and do something about it. sadly i can see no viable way of getting the message across. csm seems to me to be a busted flush, all that talk about ndas says to me that they are being used as a screen to deflect genuine concern and opinion whilst allowing ccp to carry on \"business as usual\". after 5 years of playing eve i've had times when i could not take playing for a while, like i suspect, have many others, but just now mt, cq and the continual tinkering with new stuff and ignoring the faults is beginning to make me consider permanent retirement."
"but then the troll came back using a disguise and ganked the barman and stole his treasures."
"hm..am i blind and don't see a list of csm anywhere in \"assambly hall\" or \"jitas corner\"?plz redirect me, thx. ressoruces as where they are active would also be nice."
"there is a csm tab on the left side of this site and most csm blogs and comments are posted on twitter #tweetfleet."
"i'm relatively new to this game. i was playing a different mmo a while back and switched to this and loved it. much more complex big fleet fights blah blah balh..it all seemed great. then about six months ago i moved to null sec and started fighting and learned that the game has great promise but falls short. there are several ship classes that could use some love but the biggest issue these days is capital ships and how they basically end sub cap fights. carriers and dreds aren't that bad but it seems that every major null sec fight ends with...\"ok guys they have 5 titans and 20 nyx's get safe the system is theirs. i don't think super caps should decide every fight and right now they do.i have two ideas for super caps the first being my least favourite of the two but give them a sov cost so that having 200 super caps sitting around would have a ridiculous cost making the fleets really hard to maintain without bankrupting your alliance. that combinded with slow build times would make supercaps rare again which is great.idea two would be balance them by changing their roles. motherships and titans should do almost zero dps to sub caps while be effective against normal caps and the ultimate structure bashers. normal caps should do great dps to both supers and sub capitols but should be vulnerable to die from both and be decent structure bashers but not as good as supers. and sub caps should basically be able to fight with supers in system without even noticing them except for the occasional doomsday but stay just as vulnerable to carriers and be even more vulnerable to dreds. this game would be better if you could have fights that involved all ship classes without supers being the only important ones.picture a fight where two forces with all three ship types land on field. the super caps engage each other and the capitals assist. in the mean time one side wins the sub cap fight and chases the others caps and supers away. seems more balanced to me. sub caps in force should be able to chase or kill titans if the titan doesn't have either lots of regular caps or sub caps as back up. i realize that supers need some back up even now but it's not like they have to worry if they lose some of thier support. also consider allowing mom's to jump with a certain amount of piloted ships in their bays. i think mom's should be like mobile stations with a weight limit. maybe even titans too."
"carebears are ruining eve, gtfo. no support, go away."
"working as intended..... no"
"cosmetic only."
"not just \"no\", but a \"hello no\""
"no, 1000 times no. i hope that helps"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"nope"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"seeing as most folks havent noticed thread might as well add 150,000 x no to ingame items/advantages in that ****ty mt. those who havent unsubbed already said moment it appears their outta here."
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"no, quit too many games because of them, i can't lose eve too"
"no!"
"no"
"no, no microstransactions in eve!"
"noif eve turns into a money grubbing ***** i'm out. my accounts will be deleated and i will not be returning."
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"cosmetic only.and at an affordable price. (dressing 1 toon feet, bottom and top = less than 1 plex)"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"vote no"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"noi want vanity item but i beleive they should be part of the sand box ans not rmt.if ccp really wants rmt then i could live with affordable vanity items (2 to 10$) but nothing else"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"no."
"noget rid of the noble market bs"
"no"
"no"
"no (...cause one pigheaded corpmember forced me to xd )"
"noccp does not charge extra for game expansions.i do not support being charged extras thru micro transactions for expansions."
"no. b/c its gay. or lesbian... or both."
"no!"
"no"
"no!"
"cosmetic onlyif it doesn't mess with the game i don't care, you can buy a buttplug and insert it into your bum and make avatar as long as that buttplug doesn't make you better than me ingame"
"no. we are actually paying for play. is not enough?"
"cosmetic only !!!!"
"no"
"cosmetic onlyi had a more complete explanation comparing eve to wow and secondlife, but i took too long to type it, and it got eaten when i hit post.essentially, it was the usual arguments about should not have to pay extra to effectively compete, but also mentioning that right now i see no point in playing dress up because i buy designer jeans not so i can i stand and look at myself in the mirror, but because i want to look good in public. until i can be seen in my flattering skirt, or people can admire a cool paint-job on my ship there is no point. (if i was ccp introducing this stuff, the first items i would have put in the nex would have been new paint designs for the ships, and alliance logos, and wait to offer clothes until after there was no longer an under construction sign on the exit to cq.)"
"no"
"hell, no!"
"*** no ***never."
"vanity only."
"no."
"cosmetic only"
"nodefinitely no. greed is not good (well, maybe as long as it means wanting more isk by selling stolen goods from helpless freighters, haha). i understand that the serverpark and development has its inherent costs, i am willing to pay for that. but killing off eve by introducing micro-transactions to support side-projects and fill shareholders' greedy chubby hands is just plain wrong. on a more personal note: the new character creation thingy is awesome, grants us nice portraits and stuff. but the whole cq thing just takes the focus off the core gameplay of flying ships in space. the effort that went into developing the cq could have been put to way better use."
"vanity only.no need to complicate things and let the rage continue with aurum items going farther. it accomplishes it's goal with vanity items, and going farther isn't worth it. imho."
"vanity only (but done so through player crafting)some of us desire more robust crafting in eve, so much so that we are willing to pay for it . (thats sad really )"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"cosmetic only, the only in game effect would be the ability to sell arum items on the market for isk, wich isthe same as the curremt sale of plexes does.a big resolute no to items that gives an edge above players who only pay standard subscribtion, the \"pay to win\" formula exist in other games indeed, but they are \"free to play/pay to win\" games, not ones where you already pay a fee to play the game itself."
"opposed to it but if must come then cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic onlyi'm paying 71.70 each six months, is not enough?the \"cosmetic\", maybe yes, but if it is cheap and there are amazing things..."
"cosmetic only"
"ill say hell nox5+ accounts i might add"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only"
"cosmetic only."
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"no !!"
"no no no"
"thanks for this great apport."
"1.0"
"i want to spin my ship.. thats the only reason i even played eve"
"i love cq and incarna features. but as the author says. for inmersion. a lot of times i only dock to full my shield and cap so my char doesn't need to leave the ship+1 i support yhis"
"1.0"
"yep. get that insulting door out of my sight and bring back the old hangar. i *will* use cq, but at my own free choice."
"1.0"
"i don't know if it has been already listed here, but we want the station hangar back for being able :- to click our ship and open our cargohold.- to click our ship and open our bays ( drones etc ).- to see our active ship at a glance.- to spin ships.- to drag and drop ships from hangar.- to run several clients on mid range computers.- for immersion, it is not logical we have to go thru to pains and sickness of getting out of our pods every time we want to change ammo or whatever.- for not getting forced into the item shop or tv adds.- not cutting any slack to ccp for not being able to provide content good enough so that players actually want to get inside incarna.- everything i forgot."
"this would make me very happy to see.when running 5+ clients having each of them show captains quarters and trying to quickly swap ships between them is a slower process.does ccp want me to cancel my 8 accts and just use 1 ? based on the latest release my guess is yes."
"i forgot a nice suggestion i read somewhere.in addition to a neocron \"disembark\" button in the station hangar, there could be following right click options in space :\"enter station and disembark ship\"\"enter station\""
"/signed"
"yes, but i don't want a restriction on character transfers. biggest value of this feature would be to improve character liquidity - a lot of the characters of the bazaar have stupid names."
"i'm still sceptical, but i think this could be implemented in such a way as to be reasonably effective at maintaing identity.assuming the previously suggested limitations, i would also add that once you set a standing to a character or add them to your contact list, you will always see them as the name that you saw when you set the standing, if they have changed their name, then the new name would appear under the a.k.a section. until you decide to open your settings and chose to view them by their new name.this should cover that, once you tell your buddies to look out for that vader cat, they can add to contacts/set standing and they will always see them as vader, no matter how many times they change their name. unless they choose to see them by the new name.so rather than sending a bulk eve mail, simply add a token to the characters old name to let anyone who sees their old name that there is a new name for this character, or show outdated names in a different color.irl analogy, i have a different nickname now that i did when i was at university, and different again than when i was in high school, but people i run in to from those days still call me by my older nicknames.this my be a inconvenience for some players doing background checks, but i think it is a greater quality of life improvement for far more people. who knows, a features such as this may even encourage a new third party tool to keep track of dastardly people and make recruitment easier."
"supported. i'd even go further and allow race/gender changes. there is even game lore to support it."
"i support this product."
"benefits must come with increased risk.monocles bring no benefits therefore should have no additional risk.not supported."
"anything inside the pod should get destroyed if the pod is wrecked,and if not then it should drop as loot."
"i like this"
"yes."
"so are you using physical logic arguements for a game where you have fluid physics in space?by your own silly arguement then all your clothes should be gone as well.not supported."
"implants, clothes , in fact anything on your \"person\" should be destroyed or at least chance dropped when you get podded."
"thissooo is this the real deal or a troll? implants are popped so should monocles and any shirts boots ect... you should come into your new clone with some plain clone center hospital robe or something."
"no. monocles should get destroyed by podding and show on the killmail."
"this is the far better option. you should spawn in the medical facility on your clone's station buck-naked, and have to buy new clothes .in fact i like the drop idea even more... collecting corpses is so 2005; i'm wearing that sucka's boots."
"big thing, you dont wear clothes in a pod, though the monocle is cybernetic so short of freakin rippin out your eye before entering your pod, i dont see how you can logically say a monocle survives being podded to be transferred to the new clone."
"here here, i second this motion.this makes far more sense from a lore/immersion point of view than un-podding and taking a shower every single time you dock up, when usually all you want to do is drop some cargo, transfer your pod to another ship, re-fit, repair, collect your purchased goods, drop off a delivery... yada yada yada!"
"fully support the notion of making disembarking optional.like many people who support this i like cq and eagerly anticipate where it is going, but frankly making it optional fits better with the lore, fits better for performance, and lastly and potentially most importantly fits better with what all the people in this thread and likelymany many more want."
"/signedbring the old hangar functionality back. showing us the door is simply insulting.ps: i think it's time to buy me a supercap and never be subjected to cq again."
"i just found this thread today. ccp you make me very very angry. people told you time and time again to leave it alone. i've even read threads that say they saw it running via a dev, before it was released to the public, the way it should be...space>hangar>wis. you intentionally did not change it to sell monocles and it backfired on you. the eve community is not like wow or whatever other mmo. the majority of your player base is intelligent. so now the choice is up to you. are you going to sell enough monocles and trinckets to cover the unsubs or not? we will see. don't look too good. i've already unsubbed all my accounts. if i can't opt out of incarna im done in aug when my subscriptions run out. will resub once i can opt out of the dollhouse."
"/supportedjust because something is optional doesn't mean we won't use it. specially! if you make something worth doing with intresting and productive game play. but, however, also, it should be my choice if i wish to quickly dock up and deal with my ship or if i want to dock up and exit my pod to venture into the station.and as a developer you can't tell me that that code is already gone, you never completely delete code!!! it could be a simple preference setting as to which docking environment i want to default to and a button to switch between the environments in station. i think it's pretty sorry that we have lost direct ship interaction with incarna and now have to work through buttons windows and menus for stuff we used to be able to handle direclty by clicking or right clicking on our ship.the goal of any software ui enhancement is to provide a better user experiance! not to take away efficient and regularly used features which makes client interaction easier. don't complicate things that don't need to be complicated.ccp please use kiss! i'm sure someone at ccp knows what that means. even if they don't use it!"
"i agree. we should have options. variety makes the game better."
"after the explanation of the intregration of the incarna into the eve's make up it is like saying no you can't go the the left hand of the map. as the way as it sits, you can just stand at your belcony.so i guess that can be optionalbut in the flavor of this thread i disagree."
"i have to fully support this as a multiboxer. ccp you want me to run my 5 accounts on my 3 computers right? that's a lot fo money for you guys. i have spent $3200 on 4 accounts over 5 years. well my super duper main computer can run 2 clients at full tilt but fps falls to about 20. 20fps looks bad. my second computer can only run one client docked in medium graphics.my laptop can only run cq in the lowest possible settings. i turn it off to make it easier. and its a dell xps m1730 laptop. i can't adjust the graphics everytime i dock, i need to run multiple clients per computer. i can disable cq right now but for how long? i hear it is only time before you disable that and i always have to disembark from the pod. as an rper i wanted incarna, but you guys did the wrong thing and didn't even keep to the rp of it. you dock your ship and then disembark from the pod.it makes rp sense, it makes game mechanic sense, it makes pr and marketing sense, so why in bloody hell are you not reinstating the station view?!"
"/supporteda quick dock, collect and undock orjust the idea of a pod pilot should, well, be in a pod"
"supported. it's only logical that leaving your ship and/or pod while in a station should be optional. darius mordecai"
"i love incarna and cq but to undergo that unpleasant process of leaving the capsule just to dump cargo in station is somewhat immersion breaking. it is not something most people would do because of the extra discomfort for no gain.also being the empyrean being that i am i feel insecure without the insurance of the brainscanner.if you read the burning life you'd understand."
"looked for this option and was sad to find it not there..tick to remove aurum from the wallet approved!also this.......<U+02C7><U+02C7>i also love how you think by putting it in turquoise to pop off the screen will make me think i need to get some aurum because the balance is zero. nice try.<U+02C7><U+02C7> -.-"
"i'll always have 0 aur, might as well hide it."
"1.0"
"/signed."
"c'mon ccp, \"greed is good\", right?"
"are you kidding? you have the perfect name! what fc would want to call you as primary?"
"well it seems that you are pretty set on your false justifications paulize. if you are willing to consider that knowing \"darth vader\" as somebody put it who has a personal vendetta against you, is the same as putting darth vader in the lot with all the other reds, then there really is nothing more i can say to convince you. all i can say that i believe that ccp will do the right thing and never allow this. not without some serious fee, like $50 usd or more, at the very least the same as a character transfer charge."
"bump."
"i would like them gone.this is a subscription game. ccp already have a mt(ish) mechanism via plex. they don't need another."
"can't remember if i voted in this, cache says i didn't.no mt!"
"of course."
"+1 remove microtransactions.remove aurum currency."
"micro transactions belong to poorly developed facebook games, not eve./signed"
"save the game, kill the mt./signed"
"mts must go... multiple accounts to be cancelled... i hope the increase in revenue outweighs the mass exodus of subscribers that is currently happening!"
"yes.clothing items and such should be player made, not created out of thin air for rl cash."
"looking at the exsisting mining ships i agree with a noctis based variant, leave the 8 highs, allow it to equip 5 gas miners with a 25% reduction in cycle time but the hold definately needs to be around 5k m3 with enough mids/lows to fit at least minimal defensive grid. (3 mid 3 low would be sufficient) and room for 10m3 drones for defense. instead of adding turret slots to the ship just give it a special attribute to allow gas miners to be equipped. i can even see this as bieng a serpentis modified ship since they're the most likely to have developed a ship specifically for gas mining, make the requirements to fly it based on a combination of gallente industrial (3), ore industrial (3) and exhumers (3).based on the technical info, gas miners were originally developed as high efficiency ore miners but deemed too slow to be useful, with newer technology available for reapplication i can see the idea of gas stripminers as valid but even the t2 gas strips should have approximately 50% of the m3 yield of ore miners of the same type. i base my figures on this: a miner 1, wich is the next iteration from development of the gas miner 1, the gas miner yields 10m3/30sec or 20m3/minute versus the miner 1 wich yields 40m3/minute, the second proof iteration comes in the form of gas miner 2 vs miner 2 gas miner 2 yields 20m3/40sec or 30m3/minute vs the miner 2 wich yields 60m3 minute. taking these figures into account as a baseline, a strip miner 1 produces 180m3/minute so a gas strip miner 1 should produce 90m3/minute or 270m3/3m cycle. the gas strip miner 2 is a bit more complicated and producing crystals for every possible gas type would be wasteful since there are many more types of gas than ore. take a baseline of 601.2 for the strip miner 2 with t1 crystals or base of strip 2 + t2 crystals of 630m3 (skills and ship bonuses do alot for 'em) they break down to an m3/minute rate of 200.4m3 and 210m3 per minute and a baseline for the strip 2 should be somewhere around 100-110m3/minute or 300-330m3 per 3 minute cycle."
"1.0"
"best i can tell, the ccp excuse for not sharing their roadmap is to do with managing player expectations; if they, for example, were to say they'd add the missing fifth t3 sub-system in dec 11 and it didn't happen, the community would go nuts. otoh, if they don't tell us anything, we can't go ape.i guess the concept of updating us when things change is beyond their comprehension."
"supported"
"i completely agree. i don't know why this feature was removed, but it's making corporate life hell for a lot of people. if it doesn't come back, and come back soon, many people will start leaving. it's not easy to pay people for their loot anymore. this is unacceptable."
"casting vote to re-enable this disabled functionality.-developer time estimate: 1 minute.-qa time estimate: 5 minutes. (because they'll have to re-test the export on all supported clients.)"
"supported as long as it is all faction ships.some of the regular faction frigates are at least as powerful, if not superior to many of the t2 counterparts.this actually makes most sense."
"time to make fw again for newer players."
"proposal changed to reflect differences in hull \"power\", and thus my support as promised which one in particular, because i sure as hell don't see it.firetail < both afs + claw.hookbill < both afs + crow.comet < ishkur + taranis.slicer stands out though, but only because amarr frigs are generally poo. difficult to compare it either way as there is no 'equivalent' in t2 really (its a mix of punisher/coercer)won't matter much as it will degenerate into a thrasher spam contest for the most part when (hope!) pirate frigs are kicked out"
"perfectly reasonable.fw being their favorite feature, ccp surely is running to get this implemented"
"i like raping noobs in my faction/pirate shipsbut in all honestly this is probably a good idea, but it would need to be all faction ships not just pirate. in the case of the cynabal people will just downgrade to a sfi, dd i would switch to a comet...better yes but still unbalanced"
"destroyers are easily accessible to noobs... so what is your problem exactly ?"
"to start, i am a 2006 character. however, for this topic, anyone having played a year can appreciate this issue. those having played less than a year are more likely to appreciate the benefits, without being as concerned with the negatives. (not intended as more than a generalization. if you fit outside of that, then ok) i have to admit, i am a bit mixed on this one. as previously stated, there is already mechanics that allow legal means of obtaining the sp you want. but, there is an inherent design in that affording a rather limited scope. i can't imagine there were many people out of 10's of thousands that bought characters 2+ years ago with \"i'll sell this in the future\" in mind. much more likely they sold it due to real life changes, so, it isn't a \"daily\" occurrence, as such. i actually had a friend do that very thing. college became priority. in short, it took time to train up, and even though the \"new\" owner will have an \"edge\", he is still an \"unskilled\" player. as for the time, it was real time that /someone/ spent, so, it isn't insta-high sp. it still takes the time, and investment of someone to get the character to that degree of sp, so if someone wants to spend that time, and sell the fruits of their labor, then it works. not everyone finds a \"random named\", \"random skilled\" character appealing, so it has built in limitations.the positive to highspn00b characters is there will be many easy pickin's for a while, until they, as a person, become more proficient at their character. however, equally, a down side to that is a higher loss of ships, devaluing the ships these highspn00bs aren't well versed in. that would drive the somewhat delicate market down trend. good for me buying said ship ; bad for me selling said ship. that said, however, there is something that is an unknown (as yet) quantity ; /how/ is ccp intending on selling sp, /if/ they do, and for how much? if the monocle is any indication, then we can safely say there won't be many folks paying that much for sp. the post suggests 1m sp per plex ($15usd), but it'd likely be more like 100k sp per plex, if that's any indicator.now, the fine art of balancing \"how do we [ccp] get more players?\" selling sp is yet another avenue to appeal to something that even as a 2006 character, i can look back on, and appreciate the struggle of \"geez, it will take me a year+ just to pilot something 'fun' to fly with my buddies\" factor. looking at it from that angle, let's say i talk a buddy into playing (finally) and he's /just/ starting out. i am cruising around in my t3 having a blast (figuratively and literally!) and it will take quite some time before he even comes close to my level. so, i dumb down, get a frigate, and run some level 1 missions with him. ok, that sorta works...but, how does that scale? how do i get my buddy interested when he still has to struggle with such low yield results for a stretch of real-time. it's not fruitful for him to follow into l4 mission running in a t1 frigate. if i go in, and get agro, he's gonna sit on the edge of the playing field, and watch /me/ play the game. ever watch someone else play something for hours? but, if we're doing his l1 missions, i am getting near-0 for my game time. no \"incentive\".i think that's sort of the angle ccp would be considering by taking the tactic of selling sp. \"how do we get the gamer buddies that didn't start \"way back when\" the folks that /have/ been playing for so long, into the game?\"that isn't to say it isn't workable, but, it's awfully discouraging to the new guy when i have so much cooler toys than he does, and it will be 2 years before he is able to even play on that level. i will still be training, and now 2 years ahead as well, he is permanently behind. i think it's going to be expensive to avoid \"flood of highspn00bs\", but available to avoid losing players to \"man, i don't want to spend 4 years training just to keep pace with my buddies\" mentality..."
"by this very logic you may present quite microscopic minority..."
"i'm with him, so hello no, if you want instant grats go play something else."
"i used to be against selling skill points, but as i've read and participated in various discussions i've noticed something interesting - the pro side seems to better articulate their position than the con. i've come around to being in favor of a moderated skillpoint purchasing approach. (where you can buy enough sp to go do some fun stuff, but not enough to insta-level your new character to a perfect titan pilot)"
"i'm against the outright sale of sp, i am sure i am perfectly clear on that point, but i want to address this particular question of pricing, so salt as needed.in eve, skill points, based on attributes and the skills themselves, increase at a particular rate. i'm sure someone can dig up the formulas if they care.if we look at the current method of sp redistribution that has been used, it is a straight up refund of a number, which you may paste on anything, with no benefits or penalties, related to the character's attributes and the attributes required for the skill.so what's going to happen is there is going to be this skew on pricing, a competition of $cash cost(plex), time, neural remap costs, lp value, implant costs, etc. this will ripple its way through the economy and could have some manifestations in lp values, isk values and time (time is important here because isk is a commodity currency) that are going to be difficult to measure and could lead to unexpected distortions.also we must remember that, each level of the skill gives the benefit, not the number of sp. level is a quantum on stats in space, sp is the time needed to reach the next quantum. so it's going to be difficult to also price in depreciation of effort in a way that isn't going to skew some additional things such as what people train, and how they make their choices. it'll be much less expensive to train a skill to level three than four, so we may start seeing all sorts of odd choices. part of being 'good' in eve is to have made that choice to take the extra few days and get something to level 5. but if it is yawn boring cause it can just be bought for cash to train something else, then it begins to rob people of meaningful choices.it's a lot bigger can of worms than most people think it is."
"and for everyone of you that does leave (instead of veiled threat). ccp will have 3 more players who don't want to wait 2 months to fit into a decent battleship. a whole new generation of players would love to play eve if they could really enjoy it and play it. the amount of people that ccp lose to this whole skill point tree limitation is huge. i bet 100's every week join and go wtf and leave if not daily cause of the glass ceiling. not everyone has $500 to dump on a character or would, but people would dump $20-30 here and there to increase their own gaming experience.also i now own 170 million sp across 2 pilots and i tell you that the knowledge i still don't have (cause i'm 3 months in and new) is that if i engage anyone in pvp i'm dead as the knowledge needed for pvp is so immense that vets would own noobs even with the same skill points. eve takes years of play to learn tactics, fittings, what ships do what and how to counter. and most people will not buy sp most will let it train as is normal only a few will buy sp. and ccp should limit buying of sp to credit card transactions so these vets and rich players can't buy up all they want. ccp should cash in and make some real money for a change. i don't pay ccp a cent now to play their game cause i just buy plex with in game current. i ran a 10/10 maze please yesterday and got 1.8 billion in loot, enough to plex my 2 characters for 2+ months from 1.5 hours work. its stupid ccp need to make people pay to play."
"technically your already cash to sp, you sold plex's for isk than bought toons off the forums, only difference it someone had to spend time doing it, which is a core part of this game. change the core, you change the game. also what stops someone from just changing the credit card number, really that amount of red tape to stop people form cheating the system would cause the programmer to stop working on the game and just fill in loop holes. plus you are still paying ccp, just indirectly."
"what's stopping you or anyone new from enjoying their experience now? because they are not \"the best\"? that's life, get used to it. your statement reminds me of the southpark episode where they're playing wow and have to skill up to beat some teabagger ass hat. once they gank the guy, one of them asks, \"so what now?\" and another responds, \"now we can play the game.\" there will always be someone in eve that is better than you or a bigger blob.the loss of players around the seventh month has more to do with a perceived lack of meaningful things to do more so than waiting on skill points. eve is not the sort of game that gives you things to do, you have to find your own goals within your limited set of abilities, but these are not just based on your skill points. much is based on your imagination and other abilities, like finding a good corp, making some friends, or go out and get in trouble. so how is allowing someone to buy sp going to help this situation? had you come in and stuck with your original character, you might be having more fun. you skipped over all the learning that you speak about. now when you die in pvp it costs you a lot. if you'd been out dying as a true noob, learning the ropes, you'd have spent a lot less money and probably know a whole lot more and be having a lot more fun. you'd not have this nagging thought in your head about how much you had paid for the characters you have. it's like sitting down at a poker table and being scared to fold cause you're afraid of how much you've put into the pot already. you robbed your self of being a noob, who's fault is that?did that plex just drop out of they sky? as for forcing cc payments, you'll end up encouraging black market rmt, which is what plex was originally all about."
"op should go play wow or some other dumbed down mmo, (perhaps farmville?) leave eve for those who enjoying earning their status in the game."
"i cannot believe this is even being discussed by players. any players.i'm perfectly in favour of noobs getting a few free sp to get them started, y'know, enough to get in a decent frigate with all the mods they need. i know from experience that that was one of the most frustrating parts of being a noob; having to wait a few days doing practically nothing in order to be able to use all the modules you need to get a good start doing whatever, pve, pvp, meaningful manufacture, mining. all these things only need 100-200k free sp in order to spec your character for them, but new players don't have those, so they can't get started for several days. talk about a learning curve if you have to wait a few days to be able to do something, anything at all.noobs worry about not being on the same level as the other players. they simply either leave in a huff, or learn to accept it as i did. sure, my 1 year old 10m sp character will never be as good as a 100m 6 year old character, but hey, i'm coo' with that. it's just that others have to learn to be ok with it too. being denied something makes it all the more meaningful when you get it, but by the same token you need to be able to do something meaningful in the meantime as well.final stance:free sp for noobs, about 200k, possibly with one or 2 do-overs for that single patch of sp because noobs make mistakes and train unimportant skills sometimes. no buying sp directly with isk or cash. basically, give them a chance to get started with basic modules and see it's not all bad."
"if this ever happened eve would be dead"
"sign me up; my char was created in 2008, played for a little bit (approx 1.1m sp) then idled. recently restarted to play with some friends who are all in the 15-30m sp range and i can do very little with them. i can't even \"powerlevel\" to catch up since it's real-time.i don't want to \"buy\" a character with someone else's reputation, etc, but i'd really like to be in the 12-15m sp range. oh well.-jbl"
"harlequin holdings is pleased to announce...vatgrown industriesvgi is dedicated to providing you with the best you possible. we spare no expense in the care and feeding of our clones, because we know you expect the very best, and you expect it right now.we have the finest in speedygro technology, enabling us to crank out 50, 100, or 500m skillpoint clones in a matter of minutes. our initial selection on the clone bazaar are stock offerings:trade tycoonmining foremanscientistcapitol pilotor why not go for our gold boutique genes offering, the i can do every damn thing(tm).for the more expens- i'm sorry, exclusive among you, we have our kustomklone service. just specify the precise skill set, fleet of ships, appearance and location you'd like for your new self, and we'll come up with a tailored fit. free consultation!but that's not all!hey, low-sec capsuleers, pirates, gankers, campers, and other wretched hives of scum and villainy! been condordokken one time too many? can't be arsed with obtaining alternate pilots to run errands in empire with? maybe you just feel like raising a little hell in places you normally can't go, but in a clone with actual effective skills? perhaps you just need to leave your infamous, -10 self behind once in a while, or start over with a clean, untraceable slate! this service is for you!our tabula rasa series is here with you in mind. smiling, clean, totally-lacking-in-scary-scars clones with no criminal history and positive security ratings. optional $ervices include, as with our boutique series, the precise skillset of your choice and any or all ships you may desire - for an additional fee, of course, appropriate to value and included in the cash price on the bazaar. you don't just have new toys - you have the experience and personal skill to use 'em!don't delay! act now! we know you hate waiting! operators are standing by to insta-generate the self you thought you could never have!no warranty is expressed or implied in any way for you getting blown up and ragequitting in two days when you get your ships blowed up and your silly self podded with no current clone due to not knowing wtf you're doing. harlequin holdings, gold boutique genes, and kustomklone are trademarked by bad harlequin. i've no idea what the legal precedent for a virtual character owning a trademark is, but let's try it for lolz."
"why dollars for skillz is bad mkay . skill points dictate what your player can and cant do. when you first join the game your basically set to fly poorly  a frig. you invest time in either trying to fly frigs better, or you go destroyers , or you try cruisers. or say f^*k it and go industry. either way you set a path on which way your going to play the game. this path is how you interact within eve using the game mechanics and the player driven market. if skill points for dollars is introduced a method to skip these first few steps is introduced. allowing players who pay the cash to leap frog to advanced content battle ships, carriers ,tech ii , advanced industry etc. . this would hurt the player based economy making the cruisers and other entry level ships and tech increase in price or become scarce due to a decrease in demand. that fundamental change right there is enough to ixnay the skill point for cash idea. the reason there has not been many good counter points to this argument is because, this is a very fundamental change in the eve game mechanics. it would alter the way every one plays and would be difficult to to foresee how these changes effect the game . change it will though, and it will not be pretty . instant uber alts another game changing effect that would effect mission running , industry, and null sec in ways that are hard to imagine but most if not all these changes would be bad. leap frogging would allow players to forgo entire sections of game content again changing how eve is played and causing content to be ignored or not used. ie: the tech 1 market drying up because the majority leaped frogged to tech ii .this would also encourage pay to win because more and more players would be pressed to pay for these skills to be competitive in game thus creating a skill race to the top . where in the end everyone has max skills just so they could remain competitive in the game. and when that happens eve would be fundamentally broken and a shell of its former self. the counter argument that purchasing in game chars already allow for this is flawed because, these chars are in limited supply and even fewer are maxed . essentially the purchased char had to abide by the same mechanics as everyone else and is not an advanced character created out of the ether. at some point it had to participate and add to the mechanics that make eve function.skills for cash is bad . it is just plain simple . to bad the ramifications of it are not as simple to foresee. but if they were eve would not be the awesome game that it is ."
"awesome could not be better demonstrated"
"lets be honest about this. how many people would really pay rl money to gain sp? 1% maybe 2% and dont quote me on the numbers but im taking an educated guess that there are roughly 20,000 to 30,000 real people playing not accounts but real people. thats playing now. so thats 200-300 people spending money to gain sp faster in the current game. is that ammmount really going to make a huge diffrence?now look at the amount of people this could draw to eve. oh wow you mean i can be somewhat competive with the players that have been around forever and all i have to do is spend some cash.that alone will draw tons of new players to eve not just the ones who will pay extra to play. will some quit? yes. how many is anybodys guess. but i think more people will talk about quitting that actually quitting and more new players will fill that hole three fold. ccp is a business plain and simple. if the draw more players to a game they make more in subs/plex/selling sp. the more money they make the better they want to make the game to draw even more people in. all of this can benefit the players to. a market that has 30,000 people buying stuff or a market that has 60,000 people buying stuff. the people it will hurt the most are the ones selling there toons for isk. im just guessing the people who are the most vocal about this have a toon for sale. i have played a ton of other mmos and yes eve is by far the best one. so why is it so far below some of the others? #1 its the learning curve of this game. time fixes that. #2 its the ****ing skill system that you cant ever overcome. people are absolutely right about a vet. vs noob the vet will will most of the time. so whats the big deal? but like its been said before. this game is about entertainment and making money. so we will see if greed is good and i hope they dont start mts but they obviously are going to do something otherwise there wouldnt be aur. why fight everything. change is going to happen. why not steer it to something that would draw in a larger player base."
"wrong... the overwhelming majority of players do not post on the forums, that is the only thing you can say with confidence"
"god no, there is no shortage of high-sp characters on the market. buy one of those if you want to skip years of training - otherwise, plug in +5s and deal with it. obviously, it'd be nice to be able to buy a plex off the market and skip an entire month of skill training, but this would cause high-sp, focused characters to lose a lot of value.i absolutely do not support this idea."
"this idea is bonkers! rl cash should only be used for vanity items or stupid paintjobs"
"i want to commend the op for wading in with a thought he knew would be controversial and largely sticking to arguing the topic.getting more players into the game is the 800 lb. gorilla in the room. the pcu record has stayed pretty flat for a couple of years now; anecdotally i see players not in game cite the \"steep learning curve\" as a reason not to try eve. current players can be a great asset in ccp's business need to recruit new blood that ccp did an inelegant at best job of asking us to help is a wasted opportunity, to say the least, but if we really care about maintaining a healthy community, we need to be willing to re-engage despite ccp's artlessness. i want eve to be here 10 years from now it won't be if it's just supported by the subs of the current community. (it also won't be if it ****es on the current community, which i understand is behind the current state of community unrest; ccp needs to make things right in that regard. it's a tough balance, is my point.)back to the sp sale idea: i like the aurum super implant ideathey can be destroyed, etc. i wonder if there's another middle ground that honors the work of vets and rewards their longevity namely, a player-run sp market. whether it's selling back of skills on a noble market or ccp awarding sps to sell/use based on subscription length (lack of a vet loyalty program is another important topic--this could be one aspect of that), a player-driven sp market would ensure that sps are a finite commodity dependent on player length of service, and that some player is being rewarded as another player is paying (and ccp is earning revenue). obviously, this (and any sp sales idea) would require regulationcertain skills not eligible for applying bought skills (the trial account list is a good place to start), limits on how many skill points a player could sell back, etc. etc. etc. the bottom line is there needs to be a way to accelerate players past the frankly boring content into actually having fun in the game, or they will leave.(another way of doing that imo would be streamlining the process where new players get matched with good corps, fixing the corp management functions so corps can recruit new players, leverage incarna to immerse players, etc....another topic for another thread too.)"
"this!!! very well said. the op and others like him lack the fundamental reality of development. when you start a new job, you don't slip your perspective boss a $20 and say, \"teach me right now how to be a manager, then make me manager.\" you'd get laughed at. you're a vet and you still don't get it. experience must be gained in time not dollars. as navarone stated, players will lose interest faster if they are allowed to instantly achieve an end goal. ccp would really canabalize their players, and the hard working vet player will quit and move on if others can gain instantly what they had to achieve in years. admit that you just want to cheat... you've cheated in every game you've owned and are ****ed you have to wait like everyone else. i pity you and everyone else like you.tl;dr - not supported!"
"i understand how you feel, but you seem to think that ccp doesn't know this when they may, in fact, be banking on it. even if a pile of new players cycle in, drop cash, get bored, and cycle out, how many years of a subber would they be worth? what about the vets you mention who aren't paying a sub at all?not condemning nor condoning, and this depends on their being a steady supply of new blood cycling in. but i can see the reasoning: we don't have new subbers because noob life sucks. really, it just sucks. the high barrier to entry (which is not the learning curve, btw) gets removed, maybe we get new people. also, while they're here why not get more money out of 'em to offset the lifers."
"i understand what youre saying about buying sp outright with cash is cheating. because well it is. there does how ever need to be some way of a player who started a game later to at least cover some not all but some of the ground between them and some of the older players. buy implants that go further than +5 with aur/isk or cash something. i fully support them being destroyable. thats one of the reasons why i love eve so much. if youre stupid to go to nullsec with a head full of them well its your own dumbass fault.i do want to say something though about the whole pay to be better. yes the skills would be there to operate the new ship but they still wouldnt know how to fly it and just because you have been playing longer dosent always mean you know more. so how is that any different from buying plex selling it for isk to buy a toon in game? the only difference is yes them money goes to ccp instead of the player and youre not stuck with somebody elses mistakes. if youre under 15milsp youre pretty much stuck in care bear land for a year and a half while you train. most new people quit once they find that out.i still dont think it would be right to pay $1k and be caught up with everybody but there really should be some way to close some of the gap. on a side not why not give 2x or 3x sp as a part of the buddy system on paid accounts not trial? but that should be in another thread."
"i wouldn't want to gloss over this. honestly, seeing both sides of this argument, and myself having mixed feelings on it, this is why the old timers get antsy about the idea (myself included). why on earth should i change horses mid stream? the mechanics worked against me, and now offer to give it away? frustrating from that perspective. but, again, my larger point in my last post, i have rl folk that just don't want to invest the time because \"it would take me years to get where you are, so i'll play this other game, thanks though\". yes, there are some negatives to the game with a large influx of highspn00bs, however...if it were regulated in such a way that only 1x skills (example) could have purchased points applied to, such as what you are saying... +1"
"if one whines, one should be able to give alternative solutions so my ideas are:i have no alternative solution for mt... ccp, please do not go that route.we are not your \"golden goose\", we are your clients and your playerbase... we rent time on your server and you are getting plenty rich off of that, isn't it enough? the economy is player based... you have said so, quite proudly, yourself. from mining the ores to selling the ships and mods... player based. no 'magically' produced items.i have turned off the cq. it is less than useless in its current form, it is extremely laggy; gives us some (but not all) of the functionality we had before but in a far less friendly and vastly more time consuming format. it does not replace ship spinning w/ something as, or more, interesting to do than ship spinning was.(1) options other than docking,(speeding up actual gameplay [and possibly helping to reduce lag]):give us the option to contact our agents and conduct business w/ them outside of the stations (within docking range) via comms like we do now for agents in ships. getting missions, completing missions and getting paid all do not require one to dock. docking is required only if cargo needs to be loaded/unloaded for missions, or to change or refit ship(s).(2) make cq more interesting until wis is ready... (this is my pet request):(a) strike a deal w/ netflix so we can rent moves, tv shows and watch them on the cq big screen. i personally would love to watch \"firefly\", \"star trek\", \"bsg\", or \"clear skys\" in the cq.(b) possibly add a change of view from 3rd person behind your toon to 1st person on the couch watching holov.(3) new ship spinning:(a) give us the ability to click on the ship hologram and see our current ship either full screen and rendered similar to the old ship spinning in dock view ~or~(b) click on the ship hologram and change view to 1st person with a fully rendered model we can manipulate and spin.(4) and, for the sheer hell (and fun) of it... put in a bathroom. allow the toon to enter, and... a few minutes later... exit w/ flushing sounds... make it last long enough (on average) so the player can go too. (we all might be surprised at how many might use this feature..) =]just one pilot's opinion... fly safe and see you in the sky... =/|)=please see my blog for my full thoughts..."
"here is my incarna suggestion. stop putting dev resources into a fancy space version of 2nd life and get back to the core of the game, internet space ships...."
"fistme (whataname)... i do't disagree w/ you, but... we don't run the servers or own ccp and incarna is here, and i think we all know it ain't going away. several thousand people, maybe 10's of thousands have yelled \"no\" to incrana... out of 300k this leaves a couple hundred thousand who haven't either spoken up or who like or at least don't mind it... the yea votes (even the silent ones) have the majority.ok, so we have to deal with it. period. well, life is like that isn't it? and the \"sandbox\" ideal is to be lifelike... and sometimes lifelike seems unfair, well life is unfair. what's that you say? eve is not 'life' as it is a program written by people? yup it is... and on where in they are tying to do 2 interdependent things... create a online game thousands want to play and profit from that creation. again, the majority win. just cause we, the minority who don't want incarna, are somewhat more vocal with our dislike per second... doesn't mean we will get what we want.leading us back to we have to deal with it. period. so let us get verbal with some positive changes... ask for things that will make it better for you. and if there are none, either unsub or deal with it.i personally look forward to the day when i can dock, walk through the station to a sky cable lift or a shuttle bay and fly down to the surface to join in with the dusters and do some up close and personal dps swapping!"
"here is my question to you; do you buy gas? what about bread? electricity? internet access? why don't you go and crusade for those providers to reinvest >80% into their companies?please, don't hold back, do tell.demanding from a private company that it should run its business a certain way is nothing short of crazy. you don't like the way ccp is run? stop giving them your money. simple solution but arguably there is far less grand standing involved."
"it seems as though that there are people who play games so much that they've lost their grip on reality. hence the phrase \"get real\", this isn't going to happen."
"never thought maybe you weren't carrying that little helicity boson quote too far did you? let's get something straight here: ccp developed eve and got you interested in their product. you have spent months to years investing in eve as entertainment at the expense of a monthly subscription, or additional time investment to earn the isk to pay for plex.you are not feeding ccp, signing their paychecks, or any of the rest of that fluff. get a grip, step back into reality and get over it. the only time anyone has any claim to providing for a business, is when they put hours and years of effort into keeping it afloat from the inside, taking **** poor wages and giving it their all despite that, while the owner sits on his duff, ****es away money and generally doesn't give a rats ass whether it sails or fails. you're paying for entertainment, whatever you like to think, and ccp is providing the environment for you to attain it. that is all; nothing more. seriously, get over yourself."
"firstly, i was trying to help and support ccp into getting back on track, aiming to be constructive and making suggestions/proposals that can help sort this mess. that is my tone and hope people read it that way.secondly, and drawing on the commentary above, if my favorite baker that makes awesome bread that i like suddenly starts selling me stale bread with chocolate toppings extra charge, while showing me posters about this ferrari factory he plans to build on his backyard, i might just ignore him and go buy bread elsewhere. but i can also, and would probably, tell him it's not such a good idea. not because i consider myself a ferrari or bread expert. just because i care about him and like his bread.thirdly, i can understand the frustration with the blood sweat and tears of effort that people put into developing a game, don't know if it's good or badly paid since this is a hobby for me. that said, perhaps the frustration should be directed towards whoever pointed all this effort into a possibly wrong direction? people are not forced to like everything one does, even if you put a lot of effort into it...that's why paying attention to customers is important?fourthly, recent eve development is reduced to bug fixes while the rest of the company is focused on other projects. eve has been hurt by this, and in my opinion this is part of what is making people frustrated.i waited for tyrannis, learned the pi skills and after 3 weeks was tired of that horrible clickfest and turned away never to come back - i thought \"why are they doing this crap?\"...then i realized, \"it's about dust, not eve\".i waited for incarna, then it got released and it does indeed look lovely but it's totally useless on top of unplayable buggy - even if you try and have a rig that runs it (i can) after a few days you just feel stupid since there is nothing to do. i think \"why are they doing this crap?\"...then i realize \"it's about wod or some other carbon thing they are testing\".not to mention eve gate fiasco. all of this is the consequence of low development investment and people being focused elsewhere. the agenda is elsewhere.if ccp had told us \"we are going to do something else, you guys stick in there and we'll be back in two years\", it would have been honest. and i don't really think sandbox games can live without constant and focused development.that said, i was trying to help sort this out. the suggestion was meant to address this problem. neither saying that the diagnosis is correct nor that the prescription is the best. it's just my thoughts, trying to help out. and calling it how i see it."
"or maybe if they dont bring it up it will prove their competence, since anything making 0.0 even more stagnant and expensive to live in is total bs..."
"the line was here last year when ccp said this:please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"buying standings for aurum certainly does cross the line - standings services are a popular player-driven industry. your actions have consequences, and you have to work your way out of those consequences.extra fittings slots for saved fittings are being artificially limited to 50. why should we pay for more? no doubt the folks at ccp would say, \"babble babble database load rabble blah\" - but then that would open the door to paying aurum any time you jump into a system that has more than 200 in local.out of the three groups defined in fearless, only \"vanity\" are acceptable. no \"concierge\" items, no \"power\" items. i'd extend a little concession to allow bpcs to be sold, along with seed resources for some pi schematics that result in e.g: \"crate of monocles\" being produced."
"standings are only permissible if it is for the purpose of fixing broken standings, i.e -5 with empire factions. anything else is for the players to provide such services.make it so that there is an option for saving fittings on the computer instead of on the server. there is no reason to to."
"why would you agree to any market where items can be bought only with aur but sold for isk? isk is power too, and if players can't earn aur or aur items ingame (without cash in the equation somewhere) that means the vanity items isk market would be completely dominated by real cash investors. in other words its a market for laundering cash to isk. and in case you think that's just like it used to be with plex, i think you're very much mistaken.the cash>isk market and vanity items mt - player market in control*damn posted with the wrong character, shouldve been lilandraa"
"who cares until i can spend my isk to buy aurum"
"line for me is drawn where an item bypasses in-game requirements of skill/time.no standings, no missions, no nothing that is not 100% fluff."
"micro transaction in the noble exchange store are a means to charge extras for expansions. an expansion pack, expansion set, or supplement is an addition to an existing role-playing game, tabletop game or video game. these add-ons usually add new game areas, weapons, objects, and/or an extended storyline to a complete and already released game - wikipedia\"ccp does not charge extra for game expansions. - eve online faqccp markets that it does not charge extra for expansion when in fact micro transactions sell addons that should have been included by the subscription fees based upon the customer expectations ccp has set since 2003.that should include anything a player uses in game.."
"sure you can. go to jita and pay isk to buy a plex. qed"
"sure you can, go to jita, drop the 360mil isk to buy a plex. qedin fact, this is going to be the bigger supply of aur, from people using isk to buy plex to get aur. i don't think that anyone is silly enough to buy aur with real cash. and its better this way.at the end of the day, aur and nex items is a way for the isk trillionaires to go around and show you how much better they are than you. as flying their titans around in highsec is not allowed, how else can you show your wealth in highsec? with a monocle. or a sexy uniform. its their way of saying \"hey losers, i'm better than you. and don't even think about aggroing me, else i will have my alliance kick you and yours back to the lowsec hole you crawled out of.:)"
"well i'm not sure i understand exactly what you mean, but my point is that plex has to be bought with cash first by a player before it can be turned into aur or sold on the market for isk. so any ingame purchase of plex or aur items for isk is ultimately a trade of cash for isk, there's no way around it. the aur items market increases the size of the cash>isk items market ingame (formerly that was only plex) enormously."
"with standings i think that buying say 9.0 standings with the caldari navy would be acceptable. buying increased standings with the caldari empire would not be. also i could see being able to buy things like loyalty points. you can grind to get there if you want, but if you don't have the time and do have the cash i think it would provide an additional avenue. anything that basically comes down to cash to isk i think would be ok, because they already have it with plex."
"sorry to be spamming your thread :pthat's a big misconception i think, the market for plex was controlled by the limited demand for game time for isk. this made sure that the cash->isk flow would always be marginal compared to the size of the player base (and thus the player market). plex was by its nature a very limited cash->isk market, the aur store is not, it opens the floodgates."
"the line can't be drawn low/far enough. every single inch they can get, they'll take to push in mt, introducing more and more of it over time, slowly eroding player resistance, their own philosophy and ethics..."
"no worries about spamming. i welcome the discussion. if i understand your argument you're saying that the plex market is limited because of the limited demand for isk->playtime. while the nex store will not be because there will be high demand for the items contained therein. i would say perhaps, but definitely not at the price points they currently have in there. the only thing that might change would be the efficiency. since aur has a fixed exchange rate to plex and isk does not. right now anyone who wants to can purchase a plex and sell it to a buy order for isk at a price reasonably close to the sell orders. this suggests that there is a high demand for plex since the price is close to equilibrium (buy orders are close to sell orders), and there are a large number of both types of orders. the only thing i would see the nex store doing would be to fix the plex/isk exchange rate. assuming they don't sell items that directly affect gameplay that can't be obtained through any other means."
"i meant that the plex market was limited because of the limited demand for isk->playtime, not anymore. but i agree, the current situation is not really a problem. but i believe the intention is to have a bigger selection with a greater price range. the way it is now is kinda half-baked . i guess just to limit the amount of plex flowing in suddenly since a lot of people have been stockpiling. hmhm, and i don't think ccp has a good control on that efficiency. the only control they have on the aur store is limiting the supply of aur items and setting aur item prices. i believe the only way to control the flow of cash to isk is to tie it directly to either an activity or the growth of the eve population with a ratio that the eve universe can cope with. well since plex can be traded for aur now we can't use current supply and demand as an example for what i mentioned (would have to check some old stats). but regardless, the market can be deceptive. unless plexes were consumed by the populace or if the populace grew or if popularity of isk for plex grew, real demand for plex would not have risen. market manipulation by players (traders trying to buy low and sell high, or traders holding on to plex for instance) can cause fluctuations, bubbles and scarcity though. there's lots of isk contained in the isk market in the form of unspent plex. but the isk contained in the plex market was exactly that, contained. in order to gain isk from the plex market to spend in other markets you had to either buy a plex with isk and sell it for profit or buy one with cash and sell it. but if a player buys plex with isk to resell it for profit, the real plex supply was not lowered, while demand was (the trader is \"holding\" the plex for sale). if too much plex was supplied there was natural market saturation and price drops, reducing profitability.so even though the plex market may still have been profitable, it was competitive because demand was relative to the eve population at a stable and acceptable ratio. also the \"consumption rate\" for plex was much lower than what i expect for mt vanity items. i'm worried that the proposed aur items market can't be controlled by means of prices and supply alone because of the greatly increased and renewed demand. i don't think we can count on the control of demand by the populace like we could with plex."
"i agree. which is also why i don't think non-vanity items would be a problem as long as there is an alternatate means of obtaining them through player activity. what i would guess is that because the plex->aur exchange is fixed but isk->plex is not that as new items go into the nex the isk prices for plex would rise astronomically. the mt goods that are based on aur would inflate in isk in step with the plex costs. at some point the advantage to buying the items for plex/aur instead of isk would go away as it became alot cheaper to buy it in isk instead of aur. once again assuming that they are items or services that you can get via alternate means. anything that is game changing and completely nex specific (outside of things like standings changes) would break that and thus break the economy pretty badly. there may be some overall inflation on the \"isk based\" goods that make it into the nex store, but as long as they can be player made competition should keep that inflation managable which should minimize the impact on the overall eve economy."
"tl;dr - give new characters more skills that allow the operation of basic stuff, such as racial frigate iii, other frigates ii, hull upgrades i, afterburner i, etc.when the apocrypha expansion was introduced, the starting sp for new players has changed from 800,000 sp to 56,489 sp, while new players were offered a skill boost, effectively turning them into blank slates that train the needed skills faster. after the removal of learning skills in incursion, new players got an even faster training rate by getting a 12 point increase in all base stats, without the need to rely on skill boosters or suffer the grinding halt of training learning skills. it was a bold move that removed one of the initial barriers for getting into eve, so i applaud that decision once again.however, the starting 56,489 sp seems a bit too lacking for new players, as it is barely enough to allow basic game play options, and even the most basic modules are more than 10 minutes away from being able to use. sometimes the lack of skills can force the learning process to a dead stop, especially during the industrial tutorial where the player is asked to produce an item but does not has the appropriate skill to do that. (\"you have to train industry to level 1...\") this halt in the introduction of new features may negatively influence the first impression of eve, as many players first playing eve are often much less tolerant to waiting for access to new features than established players, as often described by the \"first hour\" rule, or \"dump the game if it does not interest or entertain you within the first hour.\" therefore, removing the impression that the users have to wait just to gain access to the most basic functionality will improve eve's first impression and new player retention rate, which in the long run will help both the growth of eve (and increase the number of pew pew targets or s**kers that dive into your market manipulation attempts) and ccp's financial health (more subscribers that will also buy the nex stuff).then, how do you do this?quite simple really. give new characters more basic skills that unlock most of the basic features a new player will ever need in the first day. this can be done by adding the following skills to every new player's starting skill set:=> racial frigate iii, non-racial frigate ii. => non-racial turret ii, missile launcher operation i, rocket i, standard missiles i.=> hull upgrades i, repair systems i.=> afterburner i.=> propulsion jamming i.=> industry i.=> astrometrics i.a new gallente character, for example, will start with the following skill sets:=> spaceship command: spaceship command iii, gallente frigate iii, amarr/minmatar/caldari frigate ii. (group total: 32490 sp)=> hybrid turret iii, energy/projectile turret ii (13360 sp)=> missile launcher operation i, rockets i, standard missiles i. (1000 sp)=> navigation iii, afterburner i. (8750 sp)=> engineering iii, shield operation ii. (9415 sp)=> electronics iii, propulsion jamming i. (8750 sp)=> mining ii, industry i. (1665 sp)=> science iii, astrometrics i. (8750 sp)total sp: 86145 sp.while the amount of sp given in this proposal is only about 16 hours worth of training, it will be sufficient for any new player that wants to follow through the basic tutorial and career tutorials, and to consider as many options in future progression as possible in terms of race and profession. to prevent whines from this change(\"free skillz!! it's unfair!1one!!\"), it will be better to give 29656 sp to all characters that are created before this change, the exact amount new characters will gain from the revamp.pros:=> jump start that involves less waiting to actually do stuff.=> wider options of game play for new players.=> increased retention rate of new players. benefits both the users and ccp.cons:=> none."
"no. the number is entirely arbitrary and completely circumvents the training queue which is the reason a lot of us are here in the first place. newbs can't simply spend a few days or weeks maxing out and claiming they are l33t.if newbs are going to leave the game before getting to stealth bomber/cloak hauler/hulk due to impatience, then they will also leave after waiting to get to the next thing. so your simply delaying the problem a short while, the only \"solution\" then is to make the skill pack something you can buy repeatedly. so that they don't have to wait at any point.no. might as well put concorde battle ships up for sale while we're at it.no bloody thank you.-10more important still, that many skill points in the hands of a newb is a waste. \"i paid twenty extra bucks for a million skills points and still got killed!\" getting too much too early and risking too much isk can only drive off a newb."
"i would tend to agree with this. the idea of handing out sp is kind of silly. that's why i suggested an item like the cerebral accelerator. it has precedence, and doesn't just lump the sp on. skill training is still required; it just goes a little faster.also, (at whoever mentioned the newbs with learning skills): so does everyone else, and they don't help much. even the cerebral accelerator doesn't help much. i used that on this character for the first month, and it basically got me cybernetics v and a few other things before the month was out. had to train learning skills too of course, as i started this account before the change. kinda lost out on that; but gained with the +1 remap, so it's not bad."
"why would you agree to any market where items can be bought only with aur but sold for isk? isk is power too, and if players can't earn aur or aur items ingame (without cash in the equation somewhere) that means the vanity items isk market would be completely dominated by real cash investors. in other words its a market for laundering cash to isk. and in case you think that's just like it used to be with plex, i think you're very much mistaken.the cash>isk market and vanity items mt - player market in control"
"a number of players have noticed that recent eve expansions are somewhat lacking in substantive gameplay content. perhaps this is due to lack of funds available for eve content development at ccp, especially with so much effort concentrated on other new products.while we eve players would love for ccp to devote more of its development isk to eve, that is probably not a realistic objective. the kind of expansions we want appeal to veteran players, but are unlikely to attract enough new players to produce a satisfactory return on investment.instead, i propose that ccp allow community volunteers to assist in developing future, substantive gameplay content for future eve expansions. perhaps the editing and approval of community-developed content could be coordinated through the csm. the goal is to continue evolving the eve universe and keeping it alive for the enjoyment of us players, in spite of financial realities."
"it is much cheaper to develop products for an existing customer base, than it is to develop and market new products to lure a new customer base. you also would see a much quicker roi from your existing customer base."
"from my own experience in software development, adding major features to an existing product is not really easier; in fact it gets more difficult with time. the main problem is trying to integrate new code with mountains of old code that may or may not be understood any more by people still employed at the company. also, everyone wants to work on the new, exciting product so there may be a morale problem in forcing the best developers to stay on tired old eve.they have no way to recover their investment with today's model, where content patches are free. end game content, like new t3 or capital ship mechanics, has little appeal to new players, since it takes months to years of skill training to access that content, so they can't justify it on the grounds of increasing subscriptions. one could argue that such features help retain old customers, buy it's hard to prove that the veteran players wouldn't resubscribe anyway, even without the new content."
"there is a huge difference of point of view between the guy that receives a paycheck, and the guy that pays that employee...this from my own experience....of course."
"well i was always on the receiving-a-paycheck side, i wouldn't know as much about the management side of it. from a management point of view, what would be the negatives of letting community volunteers develop eve content?"
"i was speaking from the ownership side. management usually has less of an idea of wtf is going than the guy grunting out the heavy lifting.i do not see any real negatives for community involvement. as a matter of fact, my customers are some my best inspiration for creating new products. what i was speaking of essentially, is the cost of creating products/services/marketing for new customers, that is not a proven, when you have an established customer base that is telling you what they want. the current customer base is already in place, and you can actually track and forecast what you will get in revenue in the near and long term. that also means that your current customer base will for the most part will be your marketing arm by write ups in social media etc bringing in new customers."
"hello,as a proud monocle owner i was thinking, how awesome would a premium forum be, meaning a forum in which only the elite of the elite can post?please, i'd like to have a monocle-owner-only-forum.regards,pp"
"1.0"
"agreed"
"in favor."
"monocle overlords supports this message."
"+1 for this. i would expect it to be locked however to prevent the riff-raff from seeing what shenanigans esteemed rich gentlefolk get up to behind closed doors."
"i'd buy that for a dollar!please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"indeed this is needed!"
"absolutely appropriate. good initiative kind sir!"
"agree."
"why are we unable to drag the ship to the middle of the screen to activate.....proposal:make drag and dropping the ship in the free space between windows make the ship active.*bring back ship spinning while ur at it*"
"do want!!!11"
"supported buy only for bpc items..."
"the thing that most people aren't thinking about is that letting any type (even bpc) of game altering mt will just give ccp the excuse to add more game altering items for $$."
"good point, the threshold for adding more invasive microtransactions will be lowered.however for the sandbox it would be better to let players produce the vanity items than let them magically appear.well, i am losing hope for eve, ccp screwed it over hard, i don't know if the damage done will be repaireble, i can only hope that ccp has a tiny bit of integrity left."
"i was thinking of using pi materials for clothes and monocle. supported.addendum: clothes as separate items do get destroyed in space. clothes in portraits do not.ccp didn't think through carefully enough to realize that portrait =! character. we don't take a new passport photo every time we get into a new set of clothes, so if the avatars and portraits are separate, this would make more sense.although it may be a problem when a corp decides to share a single monocle / status symbol, putting it on a character only when taking portraits and passing on to one another to get monocles on every single character's portrait, but hey, taking photos with a tux does not mean the groom will be wearing a tux for the rest of his honeymoon, right?"
"it's actually quite simple.aur is introduced to control the plex prices. as ccp has no way to control plex prices directly (when i say price, i mean price in isk, as we will assume that changing the usd cost of plex is a no go, as that is pinned by the monthy subscription price)so, how do you control the price of something that you can't control directly? by controlling the supply or demand of it. (it's exactly how the fed controls the value of usd by tweaking interest rates.)so how can you control the price of plex? by providing a plex sink. ie aur and the stuff it can buy.they don't want to introduce anything that will affect the game mechanics. really, they don't. why? because that will just cause people to get angry, and it would make usd->plex->aur more likely than just if the items were vanity. for vanity, the aur supply will come mostly from isk wallets of trillionaires, which is exactly what ccp wants, and what trillionaires want too. maybe things like custom corp logos can be bought with aur, and other things that show wealth. besides, you can't exactly fly your titans around jita to show your superiority. but you can sure as heck wear a monocle."
"thanks for the reply :)agreed, though i've read that ccp has limited the supply of plex in the past in order to control the market.so if i understand correctly you do agree that vanity items sales through mt would facilitate cash->isk trading to some extent.how exactly does the aur supply come mostly from isk wallets of trillionaires when aur can only be made from plex, which can only be created with cash? even if those plex would've already been in the game before vanity items mt (why youd want a plex sink), a lot of plex may not have been exchanged for isk yet. in other words, their real value atm is only their cash investement untill they are sold on the isk market by the person who bought them for cash. the turnover rate/profitability for plex on the market was linked to the actual amount of plex consumed by the population for game time, whereas now it would be linked to the demand for vanity items instead.also it may not be possible to fly your titans around jita, but those extra iskies may well fund a war in nullsec.*couple of edits in the last paragraph"
"never mind... wrong button again. time to fix the layout, i think."
"i would like my representatives to ask ccp to define \"ccp does not charge extra for game expansions\"the common definition of a game expansion includes add-ons.an expansion pack, expansion set, or supplement is an addition to an existing role-playing game, tabletop game or video game. these add-ons usually add new game areas, weapons, objects, and/or an extended storyline to a complete and already released game - wikipediasection 10.e of the eve online terms of use utilizes the words \"new releases of software\" and \"expansion packs\"now here it the expectations set forth by ccp since 2003 ...\"your subscription fee gives you unlimited access to the eve online servers, website, and customer support. unlike console games where you are purchasing the game as-is, the development of eve as a persistent world is ongoing with frequent updates to add new features and improve your gameplay experience. subscriptions allow us to continue making eve bigger and better as well as paying our staff their monthly wages. ccp does not charge extra for game expansions.incarna introduced new items as part of an expansion. so then why are items being sold within in the noble exchange are excluded from a well documented and marketed customer service expectation. flawed thinking: but its just a damn monocle, vanity items; they have no direct effect on game play  whats the big deal  just ignore it  adapt or gtfo ... i can buy plex, convert them to isk, use the isk to buy in game items. these are assumption, a limited perception of the inevitable future of the game and a resignation of ones right to customer service.gtc and plex are not expansion items. each represents a direct exchange of cash for services from ccp. they are alternative means of paying for subscription. plex almost qualifies as content by doubling as currency and as an item that can be traded in game. both are anomaly of trust between community and developer. they are currency. not goods.they do not improve game play. they facilitate convenience. items that purchased with isk that were converted from the sale of plex on the player market are not not direct transactions with ccp. almost every items in game is manufactured by a player or sold by a player with prices being set by a player. even though [player_a] purchased plex from ccp another [player_b] bought the plex with isk. the isk [player_b] might have generated by tech ii production and sales. [player_c] purchased a tech ii ship or item from [player_b]. [player_b] purchased minerals and materials from [player_d] and [player_e] whom harvested the raw materials. all of which is gameplay.it may not obvious to a pvp focused player but he does play link in a long the chain.currently, items being sold in the noble exchange breach the integrity of the market and customer expectations. players do not harvest materials for the items. players not create the items. player do not set the initial prices for the items. aurum and the nex insures that no matter where in the cycle the item is purchased ccp profits from the exchange. it a clever way to insert hidden charges for expansions.the timing of introducing micro transactions for expansion items is clever.what is more clever is that it is being presented as a option for you not to be included.i'm not making an argument for eve online avatar dress up to be free (although it should be because it and all items introduced within is an expansion), i'm pointing out the eve player's right to customer service from ccp who should deliver on expectations when the developer says  ccp does not charge extra for game expansions"
"with incarna, the universe has expanded. for now there is the room, couch and door. this is incomplete presentation of things to come. because the station environments are restricted to quarters it is unclear at the moment how incarna improves game play. is it presently underestimated as an alternate shard that can be remedied by disabling station environments. when stations environments expand to include multiplayer interactivity thru avatars rather than spaceships we will see improvements that will remove distinction between internet spaceships and avatars.it will not be called incarna, it will be called eve. avatars will become a vehicle, like spaceships, to continue exploring multilayer, multiplayer interactions as we have been doing since the universe began.it may not make sense right this second but open reason to include what has been said about the future of station environments. then maybe, yea ... one would like to exercise customer service to clarify this abrupt breach of trust, bait and switch in which ccp starts to charge extra for expansions when they been saying for eight years now  ccp does not charge extra for game expansionsthe issue about micro transactions in eve online is not about player's resistance to change. it very much about ccps abandonment of expectations marketed by the company and not clearly communicating the shift with the customer base. it was ccp whom set the tone; eve online is pure subscription based model mmorpg and also stated that eve online will not have micro transactions. if ccp are to charge extras for expansions thru micro transactions, they should be upfront about it and clearly communicate the expectation shift with their customers and completely define the new expectations. the company should not be marketing that they do not charge extras when in fact they will charge extra in micro transactions in addition to subscription fees. there is a term for this. it is called false advertisement."
"/signed for good arguments"
"good points, well presented. you have my support."
"i'm sorry i have to disagree. i don't care about rmt. i want my ship in the hangar. yes that does sound selfish and ridiculous. that exactly how i felt when i read this. i understand your upset and i am willing to support you but lets not push the issue off the hangar view under the rug. it is very important to me."
"+1, inconvenience by design is unacceptable"
"i doubt anyone here, in this thread, disagrees with that issue too.and here's a thread in this forum for just that thing,"
"alright, so i believe there needs to be a means for legitimately taking over a corporation. in many real-life corps there is a board of directors, but our corps only have directors, no board. if there is a corp who's members have no confidence in it's top tier management, there should be a means for removing that person or people. in my case, a toon of mine founded a corp, passed on leadership yet remained a member when i had to step away, and now everyone that remains no longer plays. while not necessary, i would like to have my corp back but i have no means of ever doing so.so, i would suggest the following - that a corp have one of two options available for affecting corporate takeover. the first option, if membership is lacking, is the ability for membership to vote in/out top tier management. a percentage (75%, maybe) of active (play within the last 3 mos) membership voting yes would be necessary for any action to occur. only one vote of dismissal could take place in any 6 mos period to reduce the possibility of vindictive actions or retribution and to reduce needless turnover. the second option is for creating a board of directors to handle the hiring and firing of top tier management. the board of directors could be comprised of 7 or 9 members and would require only a simple majority to enable an action. the board of directors would serve without term limits themselves but would lose their position if not active in play within 45 days. the board of directors could also assign any top tier management positions on a contractual basis with specific goals that need to be fulfilled before the end of the contract term.anyhow, i kinda threw this together, so i don't expect it to be perfect. but, i do believe in it.the first option is what current corps would default to with the ability of switching to the second option should this be adopted."
"u can elect a board in game in reality if you have 51% of shares you own the corp and can take it over anyways"
"\"we\", csm-2 changed sovereignty for example"
"looks like zelda is full of s*** then"
"you should it's pretty good.anyway, ignore these idiots. anyone with an ounce of sense can see that being on the csm is no joyride."
"simple, as the saying goes \" if you can't do the time, don't do the crime.\"after all it was your choice to take to the dark side."
"why not just giving the opportunity to buy back sec. status from the shop with aur ?"
"and while your at it, let me buy sp and faction standings with aur.to be honest, this kind of microtransaction would be the end of my subscription. if you choose to yarr!!! (which we all do at some point) you have to be able to accept the consequences of your actions.i've got an idea, though that would be pretty cool: concord paying bounties and big sec status increases on \"arresting\" (popping) player pirates....that would make those low sec gate camps even busier..."
"one word: performance. cq looks reasonable as far as i can see but seems to be a real resource hog. i'm not in a position to give a definitive opinion on this as i run eve under linux and this may (probably) degrades the framerate, but i have seen other comments saying that cq is slow and that some people have problems with laptops overheating. pretty is fine but if it detracts from the gaming experience then this should be addressed. reintroduction of ship spinning seems to be a popular request. i must say that the static screen used when you disable cq is brown, dull and depressing. i do miss having an instant reminder of what ship i'm in as i have a tendency to undock with the wrong type of ship, and that is a pain."
"the biggest problem with the cq right now is that it serves absolutely no purpose, aside from a bit of eye-candy.but this eye-candy is affecting performance of the client, which, in my humble opinion makes it incredibly stupid to have even released it at this point. i think the typical eve player doesn't care much about how the game looks (otherwise we wouldnt be playing an old game like this) it's performance, and function that counts.the update incarna falls (in my opinion) into the same category as the \"upgrade\" from xp to vista.looks better, alot slower, and less stable.."
"\"so, what should be done to make incarna better?\"scrap it"
"won't happen. get over it. do something productive like think of something they could do to make you like it.i play on a macbook pro running windows 7 and haven't had any issues with performance. i don't multibox, though. my friend does, and didn't have any trouble with two characters in cq at once, but his desktop is pretty new and shiny.that doesn't mean that people aren't having performance problems, though. i figure that was kind of the point of cq, to figure out the performance issues. isn't this the engine they're going to use for wod anyway? so, of course they're going to want to iron out the bugs there.as for functionality... since i'm an rpnerd, i like the immersion. i always thought wis would be cool, and that getting out of my spaceship would make me feel more like i lived in this universe. furthermore, i think eve is pretty darn pretty for an mmog, especially when you look at wow, which came out a year later.but features! what features should be added?"
"i agree with everything the op has laid out. get it done"
"to those of you here on the forums that time and again criticize me because i seem to be \"hiding\", or because i am \"too short\" or even because i can't \"find a box to step on\". well here's the reason.until ccp adds the handlebar mustache option to the re-customization feature, i will not show my whole face.i have a wonderfully bushy and carefully treated handlebar mustache in real life, and i dedicate almost half hour everyday, using pinaud's clubman mustache wax to make it the way it is, and for some godly unknown reason, ccp does not gives me the option to have one in-game.i therefore refuse to show a naked face, or even worse, un-awesome mustaches until my demands are met.for the mustache!please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"hello.i would like to know wether there will be one member of the csm present at the ccp meeting who will be able to keep the players updated live over twitter or a similiar service.thanks."
"while some of these images and ideas are incomplete or were originally intended to troll i think i've captured alot of player ideas into some of these images, and if not atleast worthy of a small chuckle or two, maybe they'd be useful images to help portray some of the things people want.character options - aurum for extra race optionscustom ships - custom paint fitting slotscustom ships - damage decalscustomisable shirt decalsplayer tools - jessica video application for eve movie makerscustom ships - alternative base colours of hulls availble to be bought on the marketcustom ships - unlock and sell existing alternative ships already in the database but not accessablemobile phone application - allow access to management tools for your character from mobile devicesmobile phone application - generic login screenclient customisation - scrolling market bar + detachable client elementscustom ships - easter eggs and fuzzy dicecustom ships - ships customisation and shared corp/ alliance design schematics #1custom ships - ships customisation and shared corp/ alliance design schematics #1custom ships - a reason to restrict design options and colour palettescustomisable apparel - options for breast reduction and player apparel designclient customisation - user defined 'favourites menu bar' (and quick links), player availability indicatorcharacter customisation - full body tattooscharacter options - new player factions and ship sets #1 character options - new player factions and ship sets #2custom ships - random megathron image (animated gif)custom ships - new faction versions of existing ships (animated gif)game mechanics - event management and advertising toolgame mechanics - alliance and corp bookmark librariescustomisable client - detachable windows and custom gui"
"considering that all races are the same stats, allowing aurum for extra race makes much sense... they could even make it so that you could pay for a (one time) bloodline change."
"so basically, you want to be able to hire doc to go back in time with his delorean and make your momma get knocked up by a khanid instead of an amarrian? makes sense to me, so long as they include guitar-solo emotes for johnny be good."
"same problem with the confirming email."
"i had the issue when i registred, i sent a pm to the admin for you, hope he will see it soonyou can always try the same as me ; send an eve mail to the admin of the forum with name of account you want activated"
"hey, i activated all the accounts that didn't get their registration mail.we've been having some issues with our mail server recently.sorry about that."
"thanks"
"failheap is that better than scrapheap where the socially re_tarded people used to hang out?i really dislike community forums where a group of residents terrorize any input that's given"
"i think captain picard might have something to say on the issue..."
"hi, i see a massive problem with the graphics though in overall it is a massive step forward. i dont know if any has realized but the closer you get to your ship in your capitan quarters the smaller your ship looks? why is this? can something be done about it? thank you (the ship size doesnt actually get any bigger when u approach it) its like static and in reality if something massive is very far and you approach it, you shouldnt see it get bigger even though it is but in this case not only that the ship does not get bigger but the terrain behind it is (which gives the effect that the ship is shrinking)!"
"you can't sticky these in this forum?"
"phantom of amarr, stop using bold and resize your text to normal stuff, cause im not going to read that.also, posting bold, coloured text, resized text etc, is not going to make me consider your idea.next - as to the issues of microtransactions - i have the original mt by t-amber thread linked.ill work on getting the parlay thread linked a little later wed night.edit - added in 2 threads for cq optional and a new thread for microtransactions.cq posts are in post 3.micro trans are in post 1 under hottest issues.future edits - csm stuff will be moved down later on."
"noccp does not charge extra for game expansions.i do not support being charged extras thru micro transactions for expansions.the description \"vanity items\" is a mislabel for expansion addons. those items will gain more relevance to gameplay when the development of stations environments expand to include multiplayer interactivity thru avatars rather than spaceships. it will not be called incarna, then it will be called eve. avatars will become a vehicle, like spaceships, to continue exploring multilayer, multiplayer interactions as we have been doing since the universe began."
"one thing that bothers me is the mothership/supercarrier issue... personally, i dislike mothership as a designation more than i dislike supercarrier. they're all basically overgrown carriers, even before they overhauled them into 'supercarriers', so some name pertaining to being a carrier seems obvious (their bonuses were always a complete copy of the carriers of their race, for instance, and they, of course, also use the carrier skill- they might as well be called tier 2 carriers, but they are so much more impressive than a carrier they do need to be considered their own class, so supercarrier apparently seemed appropriate to ccp- and it is a better moniker than mothership). motherships, as they've said way back when, will hopefully eventually be reintroduced as a brand-new class. i've heard among my groups suggestions about making the mothership concept into mobile manufacturing ships... though that would suggest an industrial, to be honest. though i don't think that's too terrible an idea, either."
"i'm one of the dreaded newer players.i'd like if plex was completely removed from the game - it seems to encourage isk farming and character trading (which is a huge way of circumventing training time). so far it looks like players and alliances have actively spent real world money on plex, and then turned them into it into a fiscal and military advantage over other players. i find it blatantly hypocritical if the same people are bashing microtransactions. :oi like the microtransactions, but would like them to be cheaper. i hope that nothing that is manufactured in game ends up in the exchange. i'm in favour of convenience items if they're not too pricey and aren't game breaking.hoping they get more fashions in the store, and that we'll be able to switch out clothes before doing dangerous stuff.it's a pity i think, that jump freighters can't do those big jumps. makes nullsec look less attactive. if it's true that nullsec is less valuable than it once was, that's taking some incentive to go there away too. at least in my noob opinion.curious if the game is going free to play with microtransactions.also wondering if the company is hurting during the global recession.regardless, hopefully there are discount days on the horizon in the exchange.vixx"
"as i understood it, plex offers a legitimate method, where, otherwise, rmt sites and such from china or wherever would probably still find a way to farm isk and request, through questionable channels, real money for said isk, screwing ccp out of the extra funding and likely even the player getting fleeced.i do agree it would be nice to remove it altogether, but i think the game actually could easily suffer more without it. i don't know for sure, but i assume there was a time when plex did not exist and rmt was rampant regardless."
"this has actually been complained about by old bittervets for a while now. agility and tactics took a backseat to raw firepower and that's how larger, richer alliances hold the field. doomdays need tracking modifiers so they're pointed at what they are supposed to be pointed at and supercarriers have gone full ret@rd.my main issues stem from faction balancing, i love flying minni now, but the projectile buff was overdone. between having all the speed, agility, and optimal to falloff; there is no reason to fly anything else excluding certain circumstances. you have the one race that's best at putting itself in specific ranges, but it shoots from it's nose to the horizon relative to everything else? that doesn't make any sense from a balencing standpoint.it also doesn't help my immersion knowing railguns isn't the volley weapon of choice. we all know what a railgun is, don't we? it throws slugs down a magnetic rail at multiples of the speed of sound... seriously. what are blasters, something that throws **** so fast the ammo burns up before it goes farther then 10km? the way i picture it...galliente - extreme volley - extreme short/long range - very high agility/moderate speed/high armor/low shieldamarr - extreme dps - medium range only - low agility/high speed/very high armor/low shieldminmatar - dps/volley, short to medium range - high agility/very high speed/moderate armor/moderate shieldcaldari - dps/volley, medium to long range - high agility/low speed/low armor/very high shield"
"...and when i talk about range differences, they need to overlap more. there is way to much certainty in this game on what kills what. some more overlap would introduce a lot more pilot skill to the game."
"thumbs up for less dependence on jita"
"no"
"no"
"no, no way!"
"no.anything that would be considered for a \"cosmetic-only\" store should instead be offered to the manufacturers in game as blueprints. the efforts to add new items should be to support the current economy of eve - it hasn't had enough love in the past few years.maybe if they finished some of the features added in the past few upgrades, they would find the new subscriptions thus obtained enough to satisfy their investors."
"no no"
"absosmegginglutely no"
"no"
"no!"
"no!"
"** nothey should never have included a 2nd currency in the first place, kill aur and you effectively fix 70% of the problems in one go, the introduction of aur was a terrible idea from the get go, the game has absolutely no use or need for a completely new currency, just make everything have an reasonable isk value and that is all is needed, end of story."
"no! subscription based games should never implement p2w mt. the entry of such things will slowly collapse the structure of eve."
"no.no, no, no, no, no! absolutely not! never. ever. f*** no!...need i be more clear?voted -no- microtransactions in eve. the devs need to bubble, scram, web, pop, and pod the noble's exchange - and then drag its frozen corpse in circles through the trade hubs on a tractor beam, so that we players can teabag its remains. a fitting end."
"hell no!"
"yes.because all you're tears make me as giddy. i cant wait for the nex only weapons and ship, so i can swing a epeen around like you all have never seen before. not my fualt you're all broke out of work whiner's with no money. now pardon me while i go wipe my ass on some 100's and fire ya daddys"
"no"
"...and should that day come, i already fly ecm. i'll gladly jam your precious jovian battleship's sensors dead, and warp away.ecm - the circumcision for epeen."
"yes, i can afford it cause i'm rich, just because you are poor doesn;t concern me at all. i want bling!!!!"
"cosmetic only"
"no!"
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"only cosmetic"
"cosmetic only"
"no!"
"no"
"cosmetic onlyand get it in clearly defined writing from ccp so we can hold them to it, if our fears come true."
"cosmetic only"
"no across the board"
"no!"
"no"
"no"
"no"
"i vote for an unbiased vote on the subject.one that does not start with a vote no original post bias which invalidates the whole process."
"nooutright no"
"no"
"yes to 1 plex for a month amount of sp, no to gold ammo and such crapyes only for plex for sp"
"cosmetic only. and only of existing content. new content should be free via the expansions"
"no"
"vote cosmetic - you think that the only microtransactions ingame should be those that allow you to buy items that effect nothing of consequence (such as plex for *boobies, or hats, nice clothes, nipples, etc) which do not effect anything (although they may restrict the sandbox and lessen the chances of more miniproffesions) but what something looks like and how many layers of clothes you wear when you play the game in the privacy of your own home..."
"no!mts, meh, dont know what to say, i just plain and simple hate em, plenty of sparkleponys in other games, eve should not be one of them."
"cosmetic onlygive me funny hats or give me death!"
"no"
"no. i support being able to purchase cosmetic items, but one shouldn't have to spend real money to do so. i understand that ccp is having financial difficulties, however, so i wouldn't be completely upset about \"cosmetic only\" mts. but i still think it's a bad idea, and not the direction that eve should go."
"no.or only make the store run off currency that you get from in game. like lp."
"no"
"cosmetic only"
"no"
"no no no.."
"no"
"cosmetic onlyalthough is more like a no"
"no"
"noabsolutely not, no, cancelling accounts level of no."
"1.0"
"+1it might make cq underutilized if implemented now, but this is definately something i would like to see when multiplayer wis comes out."
"only reason why not is because ccp wants to grief us showing us the door"
"forcing us to deal with cq is definitely immersion-breaking. of course it has other problems as well.it may be easier to sell nex goods when we have to look at our avatars every time we dock, but compromising the gaming experience to tell us stuff is a goodwill-eroding maneuver on ccp's part. incarna 1.0 is basically a fluff-only expansion. i love fluff, but immersion-breaking fluff is self-defeating and ultimately pointless, in my view."
"1.0"
"+1 for what it shoudl have been"
"1.0"
"1.0"
"thanks for the interesting idea. i do think that it cuts into the appeal of name change significantly, though. how about applying that only to negative standing contacts? the latter would most likely play out naturally anyway amongst positive contacts. i can agree to disagree, but what can you say to those that think character transfers are a bad enough thing already?"
"supporting, obviously as a person unhappy with my character name. i would even pay for it, or let someone else already pay for it via \"plex for name change\". back in my day there was no \"randomize name\" -option. back when i created my character i was in my teens and didn't think too hard, i've since wisened up a bit.incarna is a great time to add something like this.and people who keep mouthing off about \"your name is your reputation\" - one of the things i've learned in eve, is that if you're going to do something horrible, you do it with an alt. i've met very few people who have the balls to pull off large-scale corp thefts and destruction of kitten orphanaries with their mains. not that i would mind a \"name history\" tab, but still, that concept is just so broken it's not even funny, because there are plenty of ways in eve to avoid bad karma already.e: and obviously i wouldn't mind reasonably harsh restrictions on it either, like once per year limits or the like."
"i woud like to propose to ccp that the twelveteen million or so dead/dormant trial accounts that have never been activated since trial end from the last 7 years be deleted and the names contained therin released for new players/characters.ccp can simply send an email giving them notice (like the emails we all get inviting us back after 6 months of not playing) and then terminating the accounts after the given time. my proposal is for dormant trial accounts only. if a player has activated then in all fairness they should be able to keep name and character for any future use.thoughts?"
"trial accounts only, why not"
"yes, but for trial accounts only."
"i totally agree with this if it regards trial accounts only and a 30 day notification is sent beforehand./signed."
"yes for cleaning up the character namespace. it even makes the db guys happy."
"i kinda agree with this one. imho, it should be accounts that are more than six months expired and with two million or less skill points. that will clean up a lot of the namespace, and clean up the servers as well.supported."
"for non-activated trial accounts, absolutely."
"1.0"
"i support this in principle, but it is probably going to be more trouble to implement than it is worth."
"more name options and cleans up the db."
"makes sense"
"if it was only a trial and never activated after a year, it makes sense to toss them in the meat grinder."
"i support this"
"/signed"
"i will agree this, only applied to trial accounts as already suggested, is probably a good idea, even though this character was one that laid dormant as an unactivated trial for a year or two before friends dragged me in full-speed."
"agreed.however, any char that has ever been made non-trial should be left untouched."
"ya, any trial account over 6 months old should be given notice and then removed."
"supported."
"sounds good, expired trials only of course, after several months"
"my monocle says i must approve this wonderful idea."
"sensible idea, +1"
"i like the way this guy thinks."
"the reason monocles are so expensive is because you buy a eternal supply of them."
"*splortch* here, hold this for me while i go ninja mine in 0.0?"
"so everyone will have stuff like high-grade snakes n slaves?...i dont think so."
"please share what you're smoking, cuz last i checked you only wear a monocle, not replace an eyeball with it."
"soon(tm): 'imperial arch slaver' clone contract for 350000 aurum: all fresh clones start with a high grade slave set + akemons."
"supported"
"/support"
"supported.i want to see the ship i am in before i undock.i dont wanna use cq all the time as it ****s my video card.disable station environment is the only viable option for me atm if using dual clients to maintain the inspace fr if i have an alt docked.just because i dock to change ships does no mean i wannna disembark my pod.space > docked > cq is the logical anwser.give us a disembark option in traditional spin ship view to enter cq,and give it us now."
"streamlined & optional cq supported!"
"\ support"
"i have no need for aur display or noble store eitheri should be able to remove them from my screen"
"right, pls give an option to remove aur from the view."
"i totally agree with this.also make it an option to choose to have the balance on the left instead of the right, because this is how annoying it is."
"this."
"true and true.and why the color is blue, is this some kind of vague allusion and what is it for?"
"bah, you and your harsh empty words. you still haven't answered how this is worse than \"darth vader\" buying another character (selling the current one to off-set costs of transferring to a new one) and totally blindsiding you. well, it seems that you are pretty set on your false justifications kaelie. been keeping up with current events? \"greed is good.\" oh no, i see that you're carrying the 'universal banner of righteousness' into this discussion! have mercy! been mentioned already. funny how that \"never\" in that last quote turned into this..."
"true, also, for all those rp'ers, (and for some realism, gangs in my town actually force ranking members to legally change their name) you could change your name to reflect a position in a corp, like if im a corp ceo of a fairly successful corp, and someone really wants to join, then they have to change their name to \"captain mcbunny-ears iii\" and it would be stuck like that for a year... would definetly make ceo demands and corp requirements a lot more lulzy."
"if anything, these vanity items should be produced and sold by players, not created out of thin air.supported~"
"supported completely."
"support. oh yeah be sure to include all the minutes to !!"
"yes. would be nice to see where ccp is taking eve."
"yes. it would be nice to know what is coming next in incarna.it would be nice to have something to look forward to again."
"supported, a roadmap would be nice to see definately!and would also actually probably atleast, quiet down the community quite alot.greetsjessy."
"yes i to wish to see that"
"yes, because ccp will totally do this"
"please re-instate this feature ccp, or at the very least give us another way to perform a bulk export of this data."
"this feature needs to be brought back. sleeper sites are hell to break down without this logging, so it would be wonderful if it was brought back. +1 from me."
"hey,did i just read 1 mil sp for a plex? :dthat means, if i make 50 mil isk an hour and play 8 hours a week, i make 50 x 8 x 4 weeks x 12 months = 19.2 bil isk a year19.2 bil isk devided by the price of a plex (about 380 mil now) = 50 plex a year!lets say i use 16 of those plex for ships, implants, subscription, whatever, but get about 16 mil sp a year for free like now (with implants):1 month - 4.2m sp3 months - 12.5m sp3.33 months - 14.5m sp -> my main 10 month old char now, that would be 3x trainingspeed, woot!6 months - 25.0m sp12 months - 50.0m sp!!ofcourse i can train up for pve now, but hey i am lazy: i have about 2 bil in assets, what if i buy 5 plex right away?i'm guesing everyone with a bit of isk isn't stupid either and will buy as much plex as possible for their main and alts to max them out asap before grinding.eve players are greedy, especially those that try to win the game. they won't stop at making money for their alliance by selling new toons with plex and +10's,which means that eventually plex will be insanely expensive. bye free subscription and bye fast sp for future players. they will have to pay the price (double) and will stay away if smart. am i right or am i wrong?gr. mardockps: i thought i was lazy, but respect for those buying a $ 1000,- toon. realy dumb to waste your money if you can play eve for free with a bit of scamming, running missions or mining while training up your toon though, but hey it's your $$"
"ok, let's put this in perspective. so, i have to work at my job making widget \"x\" for 4 years in order to be \"better\" at making widget \"t\"? last i checked, practice made perfect; not linear time[wait] irrespective of effort. not meaning to cause insult here, but, think about it in the context of just what you state here. the more you do something at your job, the better you get at it (yes, time[effort]). an example comes to mind. i can imagine very few folks played swg here? anyway, i played a year or so at first release, and they had a multi tiered \"if player fires the pistol\" and the code looked and saw \"if you have 0 points in it, then you have a 1% chance to increase a point; at 20 points, a 10% chance\", etc, on until you got full pistol, then you could go work on rifle, and gain in that proficiency, etc. that is closer to real life, if we are to use real life examples to compare against. if i played more, then i got more proficient at something quicker than someone else. no, that does not equal purchasing sp. that wasn't the point. just pointing out that waiting x time for a sp pool to fill is not really anything but a game mechanic to give a player a means of having something to look forward to. that put everyone on the same playing field of \"everyone has to wait the same time to get x skill\". problem isn't on a 1:1 basis. the problem more relates to how ccp gets more players interested in the game. like it or lump it (me included), ccp has to do things that we aren't going to always agree with (my vote was apparently not accepted on the monocle!) in order to attract more business. there is always fall out, and negative response, but those margins don't (hopefully) compare to the positives. that is gamble that ccp has to take, and make.as an aside, fwiw, swg finally closes it's doors this dec for making a catastrophic game mechanics change. they lost all the major guilds/player base of the old-timers over the last 2 years, and didn't manage to attract new players. they tried to compete with wow.or, perhaps vets have given this some serious thoughts, and are trying to look at both sides of the argument, and find too many pros, and not enough cons. we talk it out, and if some good rationale shows up to support how the negatives would be permanent in nature, rather than temporary influx of balance changes, then sure, i'd be persuaded more to the negative view.harsh, and emotional response. some of us like the concept of sp sales, but not outright \"here, buy bazillions of sp for $1\" kinda thing. i am talking about severely regulated, limited in scope means of jump-starting n00bs into a drake, at most sort of thing. then, charge them an arm and a leg to do it. give them something that closes the gap a little so my buds aren't so annoyed as to walk away. but, give them more than just enough to hobble in a cheap t1 frig. give them a chance to spend serious major bucks (years worth of sp, costs a years worth of dollars; limit on \"can't spend purchased sp on /this/ skill\" type of regulations)i can imagine in some folks eyes, your statement then applies to everyone who buys plex for isk infusions? or, the bazaar high sp char purchases? they cheated the system by having a high sp toon insta-grat for play."
"a friend starting 2 years behind you isn't their problem. and it's an advantage to your friend, that you're there to help him... he'll excell that much faster, assuming you know what you are doing. as far as your incentive... you now have a rl friend playing along side you! is that not enough? since this is a mmo. besides, it will only take him around a month if you help him focus train, to become an effective combat pilot, pve or pvp as there are plenty of different roles he could fill along the way. plus, the great learning curve that does exist... you can't exactly cram down his throat in short time... there should be a balance. i would even wager his toon will have the sp before he'd know how to properly apply it.the real issue for player retention, is immersion into the game. as mentioned, players are pretty much required to think on their own as to what to do. saddly this is a problem for most people. ccp is trying to figure out how to get new players to want to get immersed without overwhelming them and freaking people out.it is tough being a noob, and could use some sp love... i agree there, but most people will tell you it's better to earn your experience vs having it handed to you. people don't respect \"free or quickly obtained\" stuff. we just don't appreciate it as much. so, what to do? in past assembly hall topics, immersion in this case, having a more in depth career path explained seemed to be popular. my example was for the \"military\" pilot. an in game video of the military pilot fighting for his race in a 1 month term of service, noob vs noob style fw with free ships, clones, fighting in a separate set of systems, where he would be more guided and be taught combat, could earn isk, lp, ships, sec status, and perhaps bonus sp. this mode of introduction to eve gets a player more actively invovled, develop friends in the service and give him goals. there was much more details in the posts but all were good reads. eve is a different kind of game... it's not for everyone... the bar of thinking is higher, the risks are higher, goals are longer term... but that's what makes it so great and loved (barring future poor decisions on ccp's part).op, stop trying to make this a mindless shooter style game. it's not. quick gratification of sp with rl cash is like cumming before you can even get your pants off. stop playing devil's advocate for your own lawyerish arguement and agenda. the survey of readers by percentage have argued against you... it's for a reason. the small validity you think you have is based upon noob status. it is an issue for noobs, but throwing money at it is not the solution, as i've shown, immersion is more the issue and quick sp in large amounts counters immersion. speak for the real problem, don't create new ones.- peace"
"and cheeseburgers, and lots of it."
"this is where you, and most other opponents, are confused.you didn't earn anything because it took exactly zero effort on your part. you simply paid and waited for your \"status\". which is exactly what the op is proposing, pay and wait, except his proposed wait period would be significantly shorter. to make up for that one could conceivably be asked to pay more."
"i'd like to get my spouse into the game and would appreciate if we could just buy a couple years worth of sp. buying a \"used\" character isn't an option for her nor is starting from scratch.outright sale of hundreds of millions of sp may not be the way to go but i really do hope that ccp comes up with a way to let people buy some sp to skip the low end game.perhaps an older player could sponsor a new player once. where a new player will be eligible to purchase 1/5 - as an example - of the sp the sponsor has and it can only be done once per account. so if i have 100 mil sp and i sponsor my wife then she can buy up to 20 mil sp. once i sponsored her i am locked in and can't sponsor another character regardless of whether the sponsored character used up all sponsored sp. the sponsored character could be allowed to only make the purchase once so they have to decide right there whether they want all the allowed sp or not.there are a bazillion ways to make sp purchases work without to shaft the game."
"actually, what really is evident is that there is a very minor minority (~5.02%) of the vocal playerbase who vote \"yes\" for microtransactions on the forums:[crowd source] microtransactions (1st vote result counted)--insert-data-here--besides which, if that's the case, that the overwhelming majority of players are either not opposed or don't care one way or another, then it goes without saying that the vocal minority who do care enough to participate in the forums should have their say heard, respected, and heeded.since as every person has theoretically the same \"weight\" of voice in eve online, by means of the csm and by means of the forums, that majority who apparently don't care, are essentially opting out of making their voice heard, so therefore their unheard \"vote\" doesn't have meaning, as their \"vote\" is synonymous with the concept of \"null\".therefore in the absence of the data to support your theory, we can only go by the vocal minority who do care enough to provide enough data to produce a theory:[crowd source] microtransactions (1st vote result counted)we can also go by the views of the csm whose role it is to represent the playerbase. and the truth is that the csm cohesively agree that mt should be at best vanity only, and preferably no mt at all.correction: money buys advantage almost everywhere. some notable exceptions are games and ideally also sports.by saying \"everywhere\", then you are saying that when i play monopoly against my family members, which say includes an 8 year old child who has only a few dollars of pocket money in her possession, that all my opponents should naturally agree that if i buy more boxes of the game (effectively pay hasbro more money), then i should be able to accumulate the monopoly money from all the additional boxes i have in my possession, and use those additional funds to have higher buying power which will inevitably allow me to win without challenge.plex to buy isk from other players (which by the way wasn't produced from \"thin air\" like with the nex store items, since a player actually played the game to earn that isk) is an allowable exception, because it provides ccp with money that would otherwise go entirely toward a black market. allowing mt purchase of sp or items on the other hand, is ccp's attempt to cut into the player-driven economy that eve is famous for, and was designed to encourage.this is not real life. this is a computer game. therefore real-life comparisons have little weight. however i feel that my comparison to monopoly \"holds at least some water\", because rather than comparing apples to oranges, i am comparing one game to another game."
"if you're trying to measure your success in eve by your total number of skillpoints you're doing it wrong. your worth comes from what those skillpoints allow you to do, not the size of your number and if you're unable or unwilling to accept that then yes, eve is not the game for you. even then, past a certain number skillpoints just gain you breadth not depth, and you can buy breadth already by subscribing multiple accounts.the idea that new players need to be able to catch up in raw skillpoints to veterans is stupid and possibly even harmful to the game. sure you might get a few more people subscribing if they could throw a credit card around and fly a battleship in their first week but they won't be the kind of person who will stick around once there are no more goals for them to aim for. that kind of player might make today's numbers look good but it isn't good for the long term health of a game. and what about the beginners who aren't willing to throw real money around in the first couple of months of game time? how do they deal with an eve where nobody produces basic equipment any more?and on the subject of the existing character market, that differs from buying skillpoints in a number of important ways. the fact that its no longer your character, you might not like the portrait or the name, is an important barrier to entry. its clear even from this thread that people are unwilling to give up their identity for a boost in skillpoints and that naturally limits the number of people buying characters (which is a good thing). secondly the character market is a product of the current condition of the game. if a patch (or even just a change in community knowledge) comes in and radically boosts a certain playstyle everyone is starting on an even footing, including most of those who buy a character, because nobody was forewarned. sure there might be some people who coincidentally trained the new \"correct\" thing, or even people who had the foresight to do so, but with skillpoints for cash anyone would be able to instantly jump on board with the flavour of the month massively reducing the diversity that makes eve special."
"there were 364875 active paying subscriptions in march 2011note that these are paid for accounts, not actual players, there are of course many multiple accounts, altho i believe last number said was 1/4 of the players have more than 1 accounts ( since then it may have increased tho ).i receive these numbers directly from ccp, even when they are going down ( which has happened several times, but never for long and not by that much, up until now, i am really curious what the next numbers will be :p ).you can get some more info on subs on my site :mmodata.netyou can also verify some of the numbers by checking the \"eve quarterly economic newsletter\""
"dear csm and ccp and coplayers,now you train about 2m sp in a month. that would be aquivalent to 1 plex aka 30 days game time. why not sell those 2m sp instantly for 1 plex ? whats the diffenrence about getting those sp instantly or in 1 month of waiting time ? the advantages are clear - you avoid \"empty skill time\" and can start instantly with pvp and other things. of course this will bring kind of non-equal between those who can afford to buy them and those who cannot. but let us be honest - in real life we have everywhere first and second class. if you fly by plane or take a train you can choose to pay about 50% more for comfort. a second class and first class will both achieve the \"destination point\" so there is no difference. a company council knows that 80-90 % are second class and 10-20 % first. now we have no first class in eve. so ccp cannot take profit of those who are willing to pay for this comfort. economically it is not good for a company to waste possible profit and im speaking of 20 % of playerbase who would eagerly pay for this feature. i agree completely with the prohibition of special things like golden ammo and such because then the \"destination point\" of first and second class is not the same. but getting a month amount of sp for the price of 30 days of game time doesnt disbalance the game, it only brings comfort.im supporting your idea +1"
"i think the biggest issue with this, from my perspective, is the idea that established vets with massive isk reserves and/or the means to acquire even more isk would just use this mechanic to further reinforce their skillpoint advantages.otherwise, i think it's just vets who don't want new players to be able to pay to skip ahead.the only argument against letting new players get more skillpoints through plex, from my perspective, is the idea that waiting for skillpoints can let one play the game at each ship class size, instead of just pay for the ability to fly a battleship and subsequently buy the battleship, skipping ships that really are useful.besides, if someone who does that plans to just do missions, anyway, they end up being forced into tiny ships, anyway, since they have to work up through the factions. which definitely shouldn't be changed, as this, to me, is part of the richness of the sandbox.even those who would do this and jump into pvp- they're inexperienced, and would probably lose battleship after battleship before they learn to use something smaller or more specialized (battlecruisers tend to be one of the most popular pvp ships, for instance), anyway. ultimately, forcing a player to progress slowly up through the ship classes gives a chance for a player to respect each ship class (not that they will, but i did say 'chance'). there's plenty of people who can fight very effectively in a rifter, for instance, tackling battlecruisers with experience."
"i hate to argue this side of the debate but just for accuracy's sake...i believe the \"vet's advantage\" issue with this is irrelevant tbh. yes vets will be able to increase their skill points at will but it will only give them the ability to do more things, not do them better. there's only so many sps than pertain to flying a hulk or a hurricane, on purely skillpoint terms, a newer guy in an omen who bought several million sps and applied them correctly will as good as the vet who did the same .the real issue here is something else... player retention, goals get met too easily and quickly and them players get bored and **** off"
"that isn't a real argument and you're a moron. go play the other games that give you instant gratification when you spend rl cash. eve is not wot.as it is, you can buy a massive pile of gtcs and buy a character. why not do that?"
"that isn't a real argument and you're a moron. go play the other games that give you instant gratification when you spend rl cash. eve is not wot.as it is, you can buy a massive pile of gtcs and buy a character. why not do that?butthurt detected, a month amount of sp for a plex is a comfort. with this new players can achieve the same amount of sp as those who play since beta. plus ccp makes profit. statistically 20% of playerbase would pay for it. ergo ccp makes 20% more profit. i as a player am happy to start pvp with most ships. its a win-win situation. plus its a basic rule of a market. why do you think we have first and second class in rl ? the provider of goods could also make just one class like in soviet union but they dont. there are always people outside who are ready to pay more for additional comfort. when you take a plane you can choose between buisness and economy class. in both cases you will get to your destination. same here. those who dont see it are either blind or have their own interest in game. but its a reality of life."
"that isn't a real argument and you're a moron. go play the other games that give you instant gratification when you spend rl cash. eve is not wot.as it is, you can buy a massive pile of gtcs and buy a character. why not do that?butthurt detected, a month amount of sp for a plex is a comfort. with this new players can achieve the same amount of sp as those who play since beta. plus ccp makes profit. statistically 20% of playerbase would pay for it. ergo ccp makes 20% more profit. i as a player am happy to start pvp with most ships. its a win-win situation. plus its a basic rule of a market. why do you think we have first and second class in rl ? the provider of goods could also make just one class like in soviet union but they dont. there are always people outside who are ready to pay more for additional comfort. when you take a plane you can choose between buisness and economy class. in both cases you will get to your destination. same here. those who dont see it are either blind or have their own interest in game. but its a reality of life.a month or two? more like 2 years of skill training within moments. in any case, you're an idiot. as i've said 3 times in this thread now - buy a character.go play another game if you want non-vanity mt.let's not forget that the numbers you laboriously crunched over your drool are nonsense - given the rage over something as simple as vanity mt, i can see ccp losing a substantial number of their subscribers if they did sell sp injections for aur. many of those would be the same people who regularly drop $20 on character transfers, buy gtcs, and pay for multiple accounts."
"let's not forget that the numbers you laboriously crunched over your drool are nonsense - given the rage over something as simple as vanity mt, i can see ccp losing a substantial number of their subscribers if they did sell sp injections for aur. many of those would be the same people who regularly drop $20 on character transfers, buy gtcs, and pay for multiple accounts.let's look at the situation through \"positive attitude\":what is a mt in the \"demographic\" mean?this is a \"social\" layer of players who are so spoiled in the real world, they spend real money on any garbage in the virtual.this is not good? maybe not right (especially when it gives the donators advantages in game).ie there are hundreds of players who are bad guys that have spent and will spend the bucks ... used because they spend having fun. how behave ccp in this situation?can be dealt with or given. but can it be eradicated ? that means money in the hands of bad guys swim to other bad guys - rmtsellers that sell suits, earned by farming, boating, \"taxes\", moons, etc.and what to do ccp?it creates conditions for donators to pour their money into ccp directly, because:- ccp can sell them cheaper suits (in principle, yes, can arrange this)- ccp can sell their claims safer (through secure and \"righteous\" / formal tools)- ccp can sell their claims with less hassle (no bent tricks associated with the fear of ebay be banned)- ccp can offer for these bucks more and unique products (monocles / thongs, and maybe even a personal emblem on the tongue (well, maybe in the future it will also become available)you can of course greatly wonder how it will affect the gameplay simple pilots (may affect .. maybe not .. maybe the game will unorganized mass-dude titans? yeah, maybe it's not good ... and you may receive an unorganized mass of reindeer machariels ? yeah, and it may even be fun .. some frozen corpse will now be a monocle? oh, what to do with them ...: facepalm:)duc, can cause the other?let's answer honestly, who's suffered from the fact that ccp creates the conditions for a simple and angry putting bucks of donators in ccp pockets for those who are too tight? with whom ccp start to compete for the bucks of crazy rich players?which, of course, \"was, is and will be\" according to cu. and their business is \"merchandising\" was, is and will (of course).with whom ccp begins to redistribute the (the market) flow of dollars, is thrown from ancient, centuries?who is this \"wronged competitor\" who \"trod the corn?\"think.think.\"sand is running out\";)by the power of negative energy, and throw out the hysteria butthurt - notably that it is some \"vociferous\" competitor;).who thought of - can not continue to think and play safely.: lol:well, replacing a \"seller claims the\" other \"seller's claims.\" and what?well there is one seller claims to fashion goods \"vanity\" like a monocle, and the other does not. and what?well donators give their bucks not \"under the table\" to ebay but openly to ccp on the other bit rate. and what?the world turned upside down? (duc he was, is and will be given support with!)no, the market processing. a hue and cry, as if doomsday had begun.: lol:something like that ..."
"obviously you would like to argue that those who don't care are opposed because that fits your desires and your view of things. there's just this minor issue that any kind of votes are just like online petitions, completely meaningless because they hold no real power. what is happening right now is exactly what ccp predicted, a hurricane in a waterglass. a few hundred players out of thousands are going emo. the rest of the player base is cool with the change because if they weren't they would speak up. business as usual.in reality silence means acceptance. those who oppose mt are on the defensive thus they have to be vocal. those who support mt don't have to do anything because they are with ccp's view, they don't have to emorage for mt because mt is already happening. simple really.i think the argument in support of mt has been presented in a clear and logical fashion. the opposition on the other hand went all emotional. what gives me solace is that your $15/month will pay to support mt implementation whether you agree with it or not. regardless of all the forum warrioring, you and others are doing on here, you will not biomass your toon and walk away.no matter how you and others will try to spin that, ccp and those in support of mt will ultimately win whether ccp will sell sp or not. i'll be smiling thinking about that every time i see the login screen."
"i had a hard time reading this- my brain was trying to revolt the whole way. in fact, i think it succeeded because i still have no idea what you were saying here. if you are not a native english speaker, fine, but you seemed to use decent english earlier.also, stop clipping the first part of the quote forum tags- it breaks the forum formatting."
"not true: the majority of people will protest as soon as they are facing the problem even when warned about it several times before. the main reason why most protesters were silent until ccp implemented the shop.this means you will get a whole new group of protesters when ccp starts implementing gamechanging items like ships, modules or sp.of topic:about the new player sp problem: i think it's a great idea to make a couple of epic arc missions in high and lowsec with which you can earn x amounts of sp if you complete them.perhaps a new storyline, but the old one would be great as well. fun for new players, fun for old players.gr mardock"
"thing with selling character instead of just skill points is that when character changes hands, total amount of skill points in game doesn't go up.if you could use inflated isk to get plexes and then lol-aurum and more skillpoints you'd suddenly lot of titans whateva, instead of nicely spread sp among noobs. (no not boobs, noobs)"
"you going to pretend you're behaving differently? in reality silence means silence. in your imaginations it means you're right.this foolish canard? if people are passionate enough to rage, they are not going to throw away their character to satisfy the banalities of you and your ilk.so because ccp will do vanity items, and aurum is here to stay, as they have stated publicly, you conclude they will indeed sell sp? lol. and you claim to have logical arguments. laughable."
"i had a hard time reading this- my brain was trying to revolt the whole way. in fact, i think it succeeded because i still have no idea what you were saying here. if you are not a native english speaker, fine, but you seemed to use decent english earlier.also, stop clipping the first part of the quote forum tags- it breaks the forum formatting.with incarna and \"mt\" ccp simply take part of the moneycake that belonged to rmt sellers. lets take an example :you can spent 20$ for ingame needs :1. you can buy a machariel via plex for pvp, loose it and forget the money.2. you can buy a golden emblem for your ships which is not destructable and can be used all over againif you choose 2. will you spend additional 20 $ for a machariel ?we all driven by the wish to express ourselfes. before incarna we could only buy ships and characters to be special. now we can also buy those items. this items are only sold by ccp. so rmt ebay guys loose a part of their profit which now goes to ccp . so in fact this \"mt\" is good, it drives out part of rmt sellers.to completely stop rmt ccp is in fact doing the right thing. those \"mt\" item can only be bought via plex. thus means the need for plex will rise. thus means the cost for plex will rise. rmt with isk will stop when a official price will be 1b isk for 1 plex. proof: now 1 plex cost 15$ - 0,375b isk official price ? plex cost 20$ - 1b isk rmt, ebay priceif ccp succeed with their ingame shop and implement also plex for sp we will have:1 plex - 15$ - 1b isk official? plex - 20$ - 1b isk rmt ebayergo ccp is on the right way - to rise the plex cost with all strenght. at this point players who bought black isk before will stop that because the official price in real money will be lower than a rmt ebay price."
"while sp for real money is a bad thing, there is, however, a reality few are willing to accept: eve won't last forever. the eve skillpoints system simply doesn't scale well over time. which is to say, over time, the chance of there being enough time left to try and do the same as other have done so far, will decrease. until eve's projected lifetime-left will be only a few years or less.for instance, i'm looking at a full minmatar cross-training plan for my alt. duration? almost 2 years. will eve still have 2 years left? and how about when i ask this again 2 years from now? see my point?so, while i do not support this proposal, it might be a good idea for ccp to start looking into modest ways to allow training to speed up a bit (for everyone); like maybe 2x neural remaps a year or so."
"agreed 100%. gallente has been, by effect, repeatedly nerfed over the years and it's fallen drastically behind. hybrid weapons need some love (gallente needs some love)"
"doesn't matter which, hybrids need a bit of love. as a caldari/gallente at heart i decided not to train any hybrids because it is just unfair against lasers/projectile"
"pulling the shortest and longest range guns from the same weapon type (hybrids) was a bad move to begin with.the synergie with the ship bonuses make any kind change bloody hard to balance.that being said, blaster do need some serious buffing although i must say that most of the changes should hit the hulls they are supposed to be used on.neither damage or range are that much of a problem but actually getting into range and applying that damge is."
"i propose that ccp allow shares to be bought and sold on the market instead of only given away. this would allow for the creation of an actual in-game stock market along with the items market we have now. if shares could be bought and sold with isk, players could invest in corporations. the players could also directly affect the price of a corporation's shares by their own actions. this would include corporate wars, monopolies on resources, etc. to determine the value of a corporation's shares, there could be a \"rankings list\". points would determine where a corporation was ranked on this list. points would be awarded to a corporation for their assets, war achievements, time in business, and the number of members. this would allow only long-standing, well trusted corporations to make the list. the higher their rank on the \"rankings list\", the more their stock would be worth. however, only 49% of the corporations shares would be sold on the market. the other 51% would remain in the ceo's possession. overall, i believe this will allow for a more dynamic and real stock market in the eve universe."
"i think that is a great idea, it would bring a whole new angle to the game and would give players a chance to generate true corporations. great idea! much better than your last suggestion."
"but, that is not how stock works irl.you would need to have a board of directors that would vote on the stock dividends paid out.i agree, stocks should be tradable on a stock market as well as having quarterly or monthly dividend payments.it would also allow corps to do takeovers.adding stock cannot dilute the value of current stock without increasing the value of the company to compensate."
"my biggest gripe with high sec war is station games, where your target is more or less invulnerable. my experience with war has been having war declared on me, and the war targets afk in stations all day and don't undock, wasting my time, or when they do it is only to tease us before they dock up again. they only undock and attack mission runners and miners who don't listen, and they have no chance of taking losses. this makes war stupid.my proposal is, in a one-sided war that is not mutual, the aggressor cannot use stations in high sec. they can use stations in low sec or null sec. if they want a safe place in high sec, they will need to build a pos. if they want market access, they will need to use alts or go to low sec / null sec. clone jumping into high sec stations would be disallowed. if a character is docked in high sec when a war becomes active, they remain, but once they undock they cannot dock back up. for mutual wars, these restrictions would not apply.i think this would enhance high sec war by wasting the defender's time less, and if the enemy uses posees, give the defender real objectives to attack."
"war... huh... yeah!what is it good for?absolutely nothing!uhuh... uhuh...!war... huh... yeah!what it is good for?absolutely nothing!say it again y'allwar... huh... look out!what is it good for?absolutely nothing!listen to me - aah!"
"you should be happy they're bothering to undock to attack your mission runners and miners. they are thinning the herd."
"very unsupported, although something should be done about station games, not just in high sec, low sec as well, and npc 0.0, however banning from high sec stations is a bad idea, as this just stops people war decking which is a bad ideamaking all stations spitters would work though, as you need to have speed or tank if you want to survive, otherwise the enemy can kill u as u turn around to dock"
"support!"
"hi i have a suggestion for possible feature/addon to the noctis.perhaps we could have an auto loot option that is only available via he noctis. so when i activate a salvager on the noctis it will automatically place loot from the wreck in the noctis cargo hold.this can even be done via a skill or perhaps via a auto loot module fitted to the noctis ?regardslowkey"
"its hidden feature you can buy with aurum"
"do you also want to legalize botting or you just want to drive salvage value down?"
"how does loot (modules, alloys, ammo) drive down salvage value exactly?that said, i'm against this, if only because it decreases the risks (minimal as they may be, especially in highsec) associated with this activity, without a matching decrease in the rewards.not supported."
"a system by which the community can bankroll desired features.along the lines of,the csm and developers produce a list of features/enhancements desired by the community and assign a aur cost to them.every feature has a expiry date.players can then pledge aur toward developing that feature.if/when a feature reaches its required funding prior to its expiry date ccp commits to implementing that feature (details on implementation time scales should be part of the features information).tokens would be used to re-reimburse players aur if a specific feature expired prior to it reaching full funding.as a item of polish its possible that you could implement 'pledge tokens' as a way of tracking players - these could be in the form of 'vanity' items - t-shirt \"all i wanted was ship paint jobs - all i got was this stupid t-shirt\"?as the feature list is compiled by the csm and developers in concert it can be community driven while still allowing ccp to maintain control over it (the developers can always say no).as ccp follows the scrum development methodology its possible that features would require several rounds of 'funding' or to be broken down into distinct chunks for multi-layered features.it gives players the chance to push for things they want in possibly the most persuasive manner - with money. and to ensure that that money is going into your game in a manner of your choice.finally as a side benefit, ccp can run its occasional charity drives through the system."
"lol, it's only a game! people are getting way too upset over these mt and nex issues...if the game upsets you...find a new game. if you don't like any other games..start playing golf or take up fishng...if you don't like golf or fishing go back to playing eve. it's not the end o the world! we started off paying a subscriptiom fee, but if we are happy enough to start using ingame currency to pay for game time we can't be hypocrites and shout about \"evil\" mt's ruining the essence of the game."
"1.0"
"i would sign it, if the csm special meeting wasn't being held. yes, i know you mentioned they're under nda, so they can't report back about the outcome. i still say that makes this motion premature, though. basically you're asking for a vote of non-confidence whilst negotiations are already planned for this week. i too do not have all that much hope for a good ending; but, formally, i think we need to wait at least until we hear back from the csm.not supported... for now."
"so... i take it you mean ship spinning other than spinning the model in the ship fitting window? or just watching as either of the holograms spin, or as the actual ship itself spins (as all three do spin, albeit at a relatively slow rate (dependent on the size/agility).personally, i actually avoided ship spinning, as i have odd ocd tendencies that developed in relation to the ship orientation. but i do agree those who did enjoy it (or at least use it as a distraction) should be allowed to do it again- in a better form than the ship fitting window if it is inadequate."
"alejan, basically yes. i mean either a click to go back to the old docked \"view\" of your ship or a new \"view\", say 1st person, as though you were sitting on the couch and the hologram becomes fully rendered so you could manipulate it, rotate on all axis and zoom in and out as fully as before.strangely for an awful lot of us, it was a rather addictive way to burn time when waiting on a fleet up for a mission or a war fleet, or waiting on a corpmate who was fitting a ship, or getting a mission, or you just wanted to be ingame w/ your mates but didn't actually feel like \"doing\" anything in particular. for some unfathomable reason, it simply never got boring.what's even far worse now, is the static view you get if you: \"esc\" > and disable \"load station environment\"... you get just a really crappy pic of the locked 'door' that is supposed to lead out to the 'fantastically rich interactive environment' of (read that-one-day-will-be) walking in stations... bah, humbug. it's actually a huge let down...i have even accidentally undocked in the wrong ship... cause in order to even know what ship you are in, you have to open the fitting window... what crap.seriously... ccp can do better."
"first idea is very good and has a practical use, second one, not sure how practical it would be, maybe if it could run videos from your own hard drive, although that could have compatibility problems with different video formats, but its been done with the jukebox so maybe :) new ship spinning would look cool, depending how much development time it would take. bathroom? i dare not ask what you where thinking at the time of posting that bit :)"
"actually, you don't need to open the fitting window to know what ship you are in. i always have the 'ship hangar' (normally titled just 'ships') window open virtually permanently when i'm docked in a station, and, in that window, the active ship is surrounded in a hollow grey-ish box. if i wasn't at work, i'd take a screenshot and post it.it's not much, but that's what i've relied on to tell me what ship i am currently in... even before incarna, i sometimes referenced that window- sometimes my views in-station can get that cluttered.as for your suggested approach to bringing it back, i actually wonder about all the tidbits we've been hearing suggesting good news relating to ship spinning... if perhaps that might be one of the things ccp mentioned to them? (edit: that is, the method you suggested being one that ccp may well have mentioned to csm, but we'll probably not know for months)"
"this is worth consideration"
"some good stuff to this. seems like a '1000 cuts' thing, so probably should be added to that, but i do agree it makes sense."
"dear csm:here is a list of concerns i have with the current state of eve that i would like brought up at the csm meeting. 1. money pit? i see warning signs that the game will, in the future, require me to pay more than my subscription fee i loyally pay every month. this is concerning. i don't have a problem with vanity items; it's the concern that those items could grow into things you need, over time. people want assurance on not having to pay more than a subscription just to play.2. csm involvementthe csm should be directly involved with anything passing into the game. they are entrusted to the player community as a system to ensure eve does not degrade in quality or experience. i would like assurance that things will always pass through the hands of the csm before being implemented. 3. speculation over buying standings?if standings are going to be for sale, players are completely bypassing the pve portion of the grind, that for everyone else was rite of passage. it's time consuming to grind standings, and it's a rewarding process, but to offer a shortcut there is just wrong. the player also gets robbed of the experience.4. noble exchange breaks the system.a major concern and complaint about the noble exchange is that it breaks the system in several ways.problem- first, items are offered instead of blueprints. this cuts industrialists out of the process, and because the noble exchange is in every station, it would mean you could abuse that to bypass logistics with any non-vanity, non-bpc item. solution- have the nex offer bpcs, then indies have to make the item from textiles or some existing in game resource, to tie it in to the economy.5. golden ammo/golden scorpion?a lot of mixed meanings and speculations surround this topic. this has the potential to upset game balance if things are offered in their final form. situation: a major alliance needs ships, but they are pinned down in a corner of null. they buy the completed ships or ammunition from the noble exchange, thereby cutting out the miners needed to get the resources, and more importantly in this case--the logistics of getting materials out to their corner of the galaxy. it also introduces more materials into the game without removing them from elsewhere.solution- again, bpc's in the nex would solve these issues and include industrialists and haulers in the process.6. clothing prices?the clothing prices don't seem to have any anchor to reality. the one that shows up in your avatar picture is, of course, 4-5 times the cost of all the rest. people don't want designer clothes, but they would certainly pay for cheap character-defining clothing, or items that enhanced role play. even if the monocle had simply been an eye patch, it would have been more accepted.solution- forget high-end clothes, go for clothing that could promote a role play environment cheaply.example- i am role playing a sansha. am i going to spend 1.5 bil on something that makes me look more like a zombie, or 100 mil for a fitted phantasm? 7. high-end designer clothing versus cheap customization?why not offer customization for cheap than designer fluff for a lot. people would paint their ships, and add articles to their avatars if they seemed more like \"normal\" items, or roleplay enhancements. customization = awesome. designer jeans = laughable.examples: eye patches, pax amarria, cigarettes, ship paint/designs/superficial customizationthe players have been crying to paint their ships for some time. some people really prefer the old khanid clothing. there is a huge market for it, but it's broken in the current state.solution: offer cheap clothing and more of it, focusing on things that will promote roleplay and community within eve. you can probably move enough cheap articles to make up for the difference in the designer clothing."
"8. the uproar over aurumaurum was supposed to be granular plex. almost everything costs more than a plex, so when does the \"granular\" part come in? the way it is geared just looks bad, as if people are supposed to cough up $70 for a vanity item. in this instance, a vanity item for your avatar that costs more than a tangible item from the gift shop. that is what scares people. it looks terribly ominous from a player perspective.solution- have aurum be some type of credit for the eve online gift shop. people would throw down isk to buy plex for aurum if they got something tangible from it, like a raven statue.\"mouse pad is worn out, but i have enough isk for a new one.\"9. losses in functionality with incarnaproblem- losing the old hangar view makes it impossible to:view your active ship easily.click the hangar to open cargo.drag a ship into the hangar to board it.it also takes longer to load, and makes it so the players cannot spin their ships, which had become a mutual yet laughable pastime, that many of us miss. solution: offer the \"classic hangar view\" as an option.10. more expansions = more broken stuff.a large gripe among players is that with each expansion the game seems to work worse than it did previously. it gets \"better\" over time, but there are still longstanding bugs and broken mechanics in the game that simply haven't been addressed.how is it they are making clothes before refining systems that need attention?example 1: ship maintenance arrays make it very difficult to secure ships, the security options are scant, and they are hard to manipulate. they are pretty easy to steal from.example 2: highsec wars are a joke. it all comes down to who can abuse the aggression, station, and gate mechanics the best.example 3: to drive the last point home, highsec war mechanics make it far too easy for neutral alt fleets to remote repair your war targets with little or no repercussion.example 4: someone just jumped a titan into rens. 'nuff said.solution: revise the current mechanics to promote more fairness and less out-and-out exploitation of poorly working mechanics (neither war target can dock for 3 minutes, etc.). if possible, dedicate less people to new development, and more people towards debugging and tuning the current environment to perfection, starting with core systems.in conclusion, the players need confidence that the checks and balances that set the environment and economy of eve stay intact, and that the quality of the game does not decline. it's a gorgeous game, but the immersion is broken when bugs and flaws make it look more like a toy than a virtual reality.fly safe, -liaro"
"this is something that needed to be said, something others have tried to say, but were unable to through their caps lock and utter hate/doomed speeches.really, i believe ccp is trying to cater towards younger kids who can abuse their parents wallet for shiny things.face it ccp, the \"newer players\" your trying to keep around, are transient, they always will be, your income comes from a solid core of devoted and opinionated players who keep the game's economy running internally. these player's are the ones who will choose which players end up staying, and which end up going, no amount of content or \"shiny new things\" are going to make players stay that the older players want gone, so you may as well keep the older players happy, and in turn they will teach the newer players the way the world works, and many will leave and be replaced, while others join your ranks of devoted players. tl;dr older players are who's opinions on the direction of the agme should matter, quit trying to the noobies, if they truly which to stick around instead of being transient, they will saty, no need to try and attract all these kids. older players drive the economy, and make it possible for the enwer players to even get out of high-sec without being slaughtered by rats.work on the broken stuff to make the older players happy, and they in turn will stick aorund and teach more noobies to not be newbs.in the end everyone would be happy and your profit would increase, no non-vanity mt or shiny half-thought-out projects needed.*really, my fear is taht it becomes like a certain other space mmo, taht everytime they talk about an expansion or fixing a bug, it keeps getting moved back, because dev's got too into the mt and clothes/vanity items and mt-only pvp gear taht only coiners got to pvp and everything besides their version of carebears left, then the carebears left. the road ccp is heading down has been traveled many times before, and always ends in heartbreak and/or bankruptcy for the company, or at least their gaming division."
"i think you need to slow down with your typing and be more accurate with key press order, but grammar (national socialist) interrogation aside, you help solidify the point. we veterans are the ones that keep them afloat- the dedicated members of the community are the most valuable resource this game has, and they can't just sweep us aside without feeling the impact. just reinforce the strengths of the game, and ignore the rest for the time being."
"one of my problems with aurum is that it seems to be a currency that just came out of nowhere. and, quite frankly, it seems like something that a capsuleer, from an in-universe perspective, would look at and think, \"this stuff is virtually worthless. the stuff it buys is exorbitantly expensive for what they are.\" again, it's never been mentioned in the lore, so where the hell does it come from? i suppose in a way it should turn into something like lp, in some respects- just something that's accepted, only it buys purely 'vanity items'. but it does seem a bit odd, all the same.this is a deal-breaker for many. not me, so much, since i've adapted to using the hotkeys to open my cargo bay and referencing the fitting window (which technically has ship-spinning functionalty... and if one really wants to, they can put a preview of their current ship behind all their windows... but this would be a pain in the arse when the functionality was already there before incarna) or the ship holograms in the cq for the various elements mentioned (edit: oh, and i always have my ship hangar window open, and if i don't have any of the other things visible, i can always glance at that and see which of my ships has a white/off-white box around it... but still, i get what you mean). there is, however, no reason not to let us drag the ship item icons into the cq environ to assign that ship as the active, as was the way of things. however, being able to quickly dock/undock while still having the cq available if i so wished would be greatly appreciated."
"liaro,1. money pit?i see warning signs that the game will, in the future, require me to pay more than my subscription fee i loyally pay every month.this might be true, unless the game goes free to play with microtransactions.3. speculation over buying standings?if standings are going to be for sale, players are completely bypassing the pve portion of the grind, that for everyone else was rite of passage. i doubt standing will be for sale. i'd be fine with buying a buff to standing i'm earning. now people bypass grinds by buying characters - hoping that gets stopped.4. noble exchange breaks the system.a major concern and complaint about the noble exchange is that it breaks the system in several ways.problem- first, items are offered instead of blueprints. this cuts industrialists out of the process, and because the noble exchange is in every station, it would mean you could abuse that to bypass logistics with any non-vanity, non-bpc item. solution- have the nex offer bpcs, then indies have to make the item from textiles or some existing in game resource, to tie it in to the economy.great idea. manufacturing fashions would be fun. manufacturing captain's quarter furnishings would be good too.5. golden ammo/golden scorpion?a lot of mixed meanings and speculations surround this topic. this has the potential to upset game balance if things are offered in their final form. situation: a major alliance needs ships, but they are pinned down in a corner of null. they buy the completed ships or ammunition from the noble exchange, thereby cutting out the miners needed to get the resources, and more importantly in this case--the logistics of getting materials out to their corner of the galaxy. it also introduces more materials into the game without removing them from elsewhere.solution- again, bpc's in the nex would solve these issues and include industrialists and haulers in the process.i hope that ships with military power don't go into the store. as it is, i don't like plex translating into player advantage via ship or character purchases. plex are worse than transactions. 6. clothing prices?the clothing prices don't seem to have any anchor to reality.solution- forget high-end clothes, go for clothing that could promote a role play environment cheaply.example- i am role playing a sansha. am i going to spend 1.5 bil on something that makes me look more like a zombie, or 100 mil for a fitted phantasm? i want affordable clothes, ranging from badass to glam - especially when the station opens up. everyone has a different taste so variety is key.7. high-end designer clothing versus cheap customization?why not offer customization for cheap than designer fluff for a lot. people would paint their ships, and add articles to their avatars if they seemed more like \"normal\" items, or roleplay enhancements. customization = awesome. designer jeans = laughable.examples: eye patches, pax amarria, cigarettes, ship paint/designs/superficial customizationthe players have been crying to paint their ships for some time. some people really prefer the old khanid clothing. there is a huge market for it, but it's broken in the current state.solution: offer cheap clothing and more of it, focusing on things that will promote roleplay and community within eve. you can probably move enough cheap articles to make up for the difference in the designer clothing.the more varied and unique characters can be, the better. i like the sound of ship customization. also think there are too few clothes in the exchange. hoping for avante guard evening wear when the station's pub opens up - remember the nvidia youtube video? not all professions in eve are military, and surely the amarr, minmitar, gallente, and caldari know how to dress up or down. so far, the exchange clothing is too grim, except for the highheels.my favourite of your points is the blueprint one!thanks,sapph"
"so because i'm new i'm a kid? i wish it was true... if only playing a game could knock a few decades off. :d i'd love it! best thing since nip 'n tuck! :pps: i do appreciate the veterans by the way. they play so well it looks like magic to me. ;)sapph"
"once an account has been permanently banned their assets are frozen in place forever. faction ships, bpo's, t2 modules, and plenty more are wasted time and materialsproposalwhy not auction them off using npc players? this would accomplish 2 things. first it would put these hard earned items back on the market. secondly, and most importantly, it could be a fairly large isk sink. imagine an auction for a nightmare going for 550 mil, and all that isk disappears from the market."
"i would like to be able to type 10m into a market order then hit the space key and it will automatically type 10000000 for me. it would save some time.ditto with k.not ditto with b. (that's a bad typo waiting to happen)"
"here's some feeback after having spent some time playing with incarna:turret icons don't have enough contrast or differentiation. it's really hard to tell what means what with the new icons. the turrets themselves look good thoughwalking around should use the industry standard wasd keys. right now it's setup more for a console controller. which is fine for dust but difficult for eve.there should be a shortcuts menu accessible from whereever your avatar is in the closet that has the basic ship options such as ship cargo.the lighting and shadows in cq should be changed to provide better contrast for the things in cq, or the lighting should be dynamic and allow the player to choose the lighting levelyou should have the ability to zoom in to a first person view point on your avatar vs only being able to choose over which shoulder you're looking over for your pov"
"once you give your money to ccp, it's not your money any more, it's their money. you paid it in exchange for a service, as long as ccp supplies the service you paid for, they can do what ever the hell they want with their money after that.while it is also in ccp's best interest to invest money directly back in to eve to improve the product and attract new subscriptions, that is not the only good choice on how to move forward. development of wod and dusk will give back 10 fold to eve on the investment in time and technology, not to mention diversify the skill set at ccp. the whole purpose of the new carbon engine is to allow advances made in one game to improve others built on the same technology. if you honestly can't see the benefits of this long term, then you are very short sighted indeed."
"that is why it's a proposal. you know, suggestion....?"
"i do recall seeing someone making the strong case that unreleased projects should rely on investments and such intended for it, just like any new venture- and certainly even from white wolf profits.also, i agree heavily with the point that eve is a unique sandbox. the perceived direction/mindset that the internal reports generally imply would undoubtedly deconstruct that sandbox which makes the game unique. and, let's face it, it's the only selling point for this game. the gameplay is arguably dull and lethargic. the community and the sandbox nature are what make this game worth playing. if the sandbox is destroyed by said perceived direction/mindset, there's no reason for anyone to play eve. it would be the death of eve, and subsequently ccp, since they have no other project ready to support them. they would be committing seppuku.this is what needs to be impressed upon ccp by the csm- that they'd be killing themselves if this is indeed the direction they plan to take. the game is just too hands-off in gameplay, and there's no way to fix that fast enough to pull in a different community to keep this game going."
"geez. last time i checked ccp was a company with the goal to make money for shareholders, not a community service. you dont like it, leave. i suggest ccp sells itself. the mess the company made out of incarna shows that they are over their heads with the product design and implementation. ccp don't seem to have capacity to do both, develop new content and fix bugs. sell the corp to sony now who owns the access to dust anyway. sony can handle the boring stuff (microtransactions, barbie / ken environments...) and it frees ccp staff to come up with awesome content."
"and you think these people haven't already canceled their subscriptions? they have time on their accounts, though, because cancelling subscriptions doesn't mean your account ends that very moment. time was paid for, and there's no automatic refund system (nor would anyone expect there to be). they will continue to try and clarify to ccp that they are on the way to destruction up until their current subscription time expires.ccp selling to someone would probably not be too bad- so long as they aren't going to muck around with them poorly, like activision with infinity ward.ccp has often said they hold their community in such high esteem; players are just insisting they actually back that claim up."
"i can understand where you're coming from and appreciate your efforts to do something positive.. however i can't help thinking that ccp won't even finish reading your post before moving onto the next thread {if they do even read threads in here).they have their goals, their priorities, and then a budget (which would be under review now given unpredictability of current circumstances) that takes these factors into account. their decisions are made by a body of professionals and i doubt they'd even contemplate even considering such ideas from just a player."
"like all plans, if everything goes well it's fine! however, the concern is that it may go wrong (wod / dust) and that it is draining too much resources from eve. the proposal was aimed at making sure new stuff being developed has a scale proportional to what ccp can realistically do without hampering eve. and by introducing a quantitative measure they can control it with a metric based on investment - which is what matters.i want ccp to make a gazillion euros every day but feel like revenues from investments in eve are more solid and generate steady growth (and profit!), while investments in other venues may not lead to commercial success and are risky, especially if you take on 2 other projects at the same time. no problem with risk, but how much you gamble is a decision that involves a tradeoff between investing on your present assets that give you solid growth and investing on future assets that may be worth little. by putting everything on the same bag, eve has to pay for everything and also shares all the risk! i know game companies do this left and right, but not with sandboxes - for them it's scripted gameplay, where players repeat routines endlessly while being milked, so it kinda makes sense after a while to go build new scripts on some new game. eve is not like that.one of the problems this could also address is lateral development. ccp seems a bit like companies that are very good at engineering/science but are terrible at making consumer oriented products. even when eve gets awesome new additions that have potential, ccp seems to go like \"potential is there, we implemented it, we proved we can do this, cba to fine tune/polish it, let's move to some other awesome idea!\". supercaps, sov changes, fw, incursion, cosmos, epic story arcs... all of these have tons of room for improvement. ccp does the first part (putting it there, engineering it) but then they don't fine tune further to make it really awesome. all of these things could have a bunch of developers iterating and advancing each feature further. that's what focused development in a sandbox should be, as opposed to lateral development, always targeting new things, new additions, new great ideas (that are great) but leaving a trail of unfinished things behind...and i am not talking papercuts! perhaps sandbox development favors this approach, since development can do the first mile and leave the bricks for the players to build stuff with, but there is a difference between giving players tools and leaving them with unfinished stuff. ccp listens to player proposals...they also seem very stubborn though.i don't think we'll ever realistically get 80%, but when you start something it's better to ask for too much than to settle for less, and perhaps if we build some traction we can get all those professional people to think about it a bit."
"although i would like ccp to focus more on eve, for obvious reasons this idea is completely fail and would not work.\"ccp commits to >80% reinvestment policy of all revenues from eve subscriptions to be put back into developing eve\"so what happens if the operating costs of eve such as the servers, internet connection, etc amount to greater than 20% of revenues? how would you allocate \"shared\" development expenses between multiple games? \"this policy will be audited by the csm / community by reviewing annual company reports\"yeah.. because the csm and players are all financial experts and this is a publicly traded company. oh wait...\"# ccp is free to develop other gaming projects/whatever and can use it's track record and reputation from eve to secure external financing according to investor interest and required commercial viability assessments\"lol..."
"this!"
"tl;dr: faction and t2 moved from a static \"cook this t1 item to get a t2 item\" to \"assemble your t1 item, add this, and get a faction, deadspace, or t2 item\"tech 2. we all love it. but what if we could streamline it's development? with the advent of rig , and now t3 subsystems, why couldn't we just have a more modular system? load-out upgrades \ deployment package.these are \"super-rigs\" very much like what you would see on t3. it modifies the ship to the appropriate corporation or faction and meta level. they are a secure container with all the modifications and resources inside. think station egg, but a rig for ships, and possibly modules.unlinking tech / meta and parent faction from traditional hulls has some interesting side effects. for instance, faction loadouts (such as a navy raven) could be any meta level. people have asking for tech 2 faction for a while. this could be one way to do it.i imagine 3 groups of modifiers.house (tentative name)rolemeta / tech levelthis can go 2 ways:installing a \"house\" loadout attaches an affiliation to the item, such as a faction or npc corp. this also changes stats to fit the meta level. adding a caldari navy \"house\" loadout to a raven basically makes it a cnr. the \"role\" modifier gives the ship a role such as hac or logistics ship. adding a logi role to a sythe without a t2 meta modifier would result in a meta 1 logistics ship. they all show up in the fitting window on ships and have a naming convention similar to hardwirings. one could combine meta and house, though to make it easier. (side note: along with these one could probably have a inexpensive set of slots on ships that changes the flair of the ship, such as logo and paint job.)plan b (because plan b is usually the better plan anyway.) is put all this into one one package and have the player right click and \"apply loadout\" this does the same, but with less flexibility and more ease of use.either way both are destroyed if it is repackaged. the bp's require the same materials as upgrading it now, with out the original item. and, because of balance, i would imagine there would be restrictions on what can be applied where.i don't particularly know what to do with bpo owners. i would assume they would keep their bpos and continue making the same items.this adds a bit of depth to the game for pvp. ships all retain their t1 name, and would have to be scanned or visually identified to know what loadout is applied."
"hopefully this thread helped with the csm in there talk with ccp"
"hey everyone,with one of the last patches/updates there came a change that made me really happy. after the stacking operation all items are automatically sorted by the last used sorting method. it's little things like these that make eve a better experience.but from my point of view there is one important step missing:i always find myself repackaging the items fist, before they are stacked and sorted.unpackaged items serve no use imho. they take up more space and cannot be stacked. how little sense there really is in having \"unpackaged\" items can be seen in the fact that modules cannot manually be \"assembled\". the only way to do that is by fitting them into a ship. in fact, i don't even get why i have to confirm the repackaging as if it is something bad.so i propose the following: automatic repackaging of all items, that do not have the \"assemble\" option in the right-click menu when the \"stack all items\" command is executed.damaged items are not being repackaged, but instead the normal message is displayed, that not all items were repackaged. repaired items are repackaged with the next \"stack\" command after repair.it would improve the click-orgy that eve still is.and, as i accidentally trashed 5m in t2 drones a couple of days ago, it would prevent players from having to click so dangerously close to the \"trash it\" option.maybe i'm missing something here. i'm not omniscient. in this case please educate me.thank you for your attention."
"so there's super awesome meeting gonna happen that's suppose to juice up my sphincter.it's the dog that stopped the war! hurrah!no sticky here. not seein' \"hey guys live it to, gonna eat shrimp/hug it out, work on this/that.\"the lil changes ppl, ****ing love them so far. always liked ccp until now.but csm can't make ****ing sticky about upcoming trip or apprise us of issues they as players are gonna bring/take opportunity to bring up?nda nda nda nda nda nda, ****s the point?just a sticky \"gonna represent\" or \"gonna get ****ed up while spouted you\"?all i want to know is: if i should set long skills until stuff done or cancel while new games that i know **** about get their jollies.should i scale back to 1 account if yr's of training still don't matter, all the complaints from '03 and post t2.i don't care about mt's now. i give a **** that only 1 csm has ever taken hard stand, and he was an alternate.i give a **** that all the responses i've read for yr's is mainly \"oh ya we hear you get right on it\" i'm only getting ****ing older.i give a **** that resources for things that require testing, development, are going to another game. a game that for **** all has nothing to do w/ my subscription to eve.if csm/ccp had read, ppl pleaded long ago that if they were paid isk to go on sq they'd go.why the **** would i spend the time to find out about some super ass awesome fit that i can't find or afford on test server. or even testing a fit, i get the **** on tq and try and then get back to rl and work. just call it the fit server. or the omg they gimme skills to so own you w/ this super but never gonna fly dream server.i wouldn't even be playing this game, despite it's awesomeness, if were not for the ppl who developed extra stuff to make eve easier to understand.or even something from the csm that said-**** the old saying \"fly only what you can afford to lose.\"we're fighting for you to \"fly what you can carry **** load of fun in.\""
"i'd never agree to non-vanity items mt even when they can be earned ingame too because the ppl who can buy them for cash would probably still be at an advantage (easier/quicker access to goods, 100% availability, no need to earn isk first). but i agree that any kind of competition on the market between players working for goods and players paying cash for goods would help to control prices. i would still be slightly worried though about the amount of cash ppl are willing to pay for a little bit of isk vs. the amount of work ingame ppl are willing to do for a certain item. if the cash ppl would accept lower exchange rates (sell for lower isk prices) than the ingame ppl are willing to work for, cash traders would still dominate the market. so yeah there would be natural market saturation like there was with plex, but because of the much bigger market and the greatly increased and renewed demand it would still facilitate a lot more cash->isk trading than we were used to.it also wouldn't solve the problem with things appearing out of thin air. that's why i thought up the plan in the the cash>isk market and vanity items mt - player market in control thread. it's the only thing i can think of atm that would solve most of those issues."
"agreed in full."
"yes atha wil give soem ting for new player i creared recently 1 alt new and i needet to wait atleast a day that hee strart to do ting wath i needet that he need to start to do, i add to this one more ting:racial industrial ships skil lvl1 that to needet that miners ca nstart mine if they wish wit out doking and andocking all the time."
"hm... can't say as i'm likely to do that. it all balances on the value of a plex anyway right; so you circumvent the plex market with purchase and direct translation to aurum, and the plex market doesn't get fed. this results in plex demand remaining high, so the value stays up, and aurum purchases mean less, as they translate to less isk returned than plex market value would give you.you don't really think people are going to burn cash on aurum do you? ..or that players are going to burn isk on clothing, when they could just buy a plex for isk and translate it?edit: +1 for making me think. i haven't had to do that for a couple days."
"my views on the nex store and related issues:1. no implants, modules, ammo, etc. anything that will directly impact pvp, the market, or pve should not appear. (one exception i will mention last)2. no convenience charges (things like more fitting space) as others have mentioned.3. any ship skins/models, regardless of how implemented, should always require as materials or payment the same ship that is given out as a skin. such skinned/remodeled ships should differ from the original ship only in appearance(paint job) and contain the exact same stats as the original ship.4. clothes are a vanity item, if something is expensive then its expensive. these are nothing more than vanity items, if ccp wants to make it so only the rich(either $$ or isk rich) can buy them so be it. not having a vanity eye implant (monocle) is not going to affect gameplay for you.5. plex prices have changed over the years. 30 days used to be 150m now they are 300m+ if they increase in the future due to the nex store that is simply something players need to adapt to as they have done already in the past. please remember before you complain that you are playing for free, with the only 'cost' of your account being that you have to play the game. it should also be noted that it has become easier to earn isk as the years go by.6. this is the one exception to my first point that i would be accepting towards. many will disagree with this and that's fine with me, its always good to see differing opinions. however i do not plan to argue about it, simply giving my thoughts as i hope we can all do without an argument. (if you comment on this point and want a reply from me, say so) so getting to the point: allowing something such as the cerebral accelerator, or similar type item, that only speeds up training time(5% faster? 20%? etc.) for a limited time and has a restricted re-use time just as we current have with attribute remaps would be something i wouldn't mind seeing. such an item would allow new players to get into some game play sooner without instantly granting them access to the higher sp game play (such as stealth bombers as mentioned earlier in this thread). it would also give current players a chance to catch up a little bit to the older veterans since as we know, sp is the one thing an older player (subscription time wise) will always have an advantage in regardless of how much effort a newer player puts into the game. with a limited re-use time(few months? full year? etc.) and a duration time(1 month? etc.) this item would not be able to be abused like pure aur for batch sp would be, which i am completely against by the way. also something to note, both plex spenders and isk users have the capability of using the nex store so this would not help only those willing to spend cash. (tldr: i like the idea of a limited re-use time sp accelerator but am completely against a straight up/instant sp batch)"
"i will biomass my toons if the nex persists like it is today.hell, i won't pay ccp to design out-of-the-air items/shops where they can trick dumbasses to pay rl money for random bits and bytes completely out-of-sync with game mechanics and game lore. not while there's so much inconsistencies in the existing content.it's a game ffs. the main thing about games is the play aspect. ccp sells game time cards. that's their business. they should be doing game design, and game development.btw i'm fine if they restrict the access to specific parts of the game via mt, but that's a different thing."
"hehe thanks. but yeah i think that when the aur store selection gets larger and when isk prices for vanity items become reasonable a whole lotta ppl will buy vanity items for isk. it'll be a whole new market with a lot more (renewed) demand and a lot more opportunities to make a profit compared to the old the plex market (which wouldve become saturated much quicker). i've been discussing this a bit more with rc denton in the where's the line for mt thread (last few posts on the first page).a quick summary:"
"ok first of all, gallente are all weird, minmatar like to look scary, caldari are just... eh, and amarr im sure you could find a reason for them too.now, if we can be in new eden, where they have the ability to clone a capsuleer near unlimited times without severe genetic degredation, why cant we manipulate the dna?like plastic surgery but genetic, some people want bloodline/race change for isk/aur/plex whatever, but what about adding genetic variations? like the minmatar, who like to look all fierce, give them some wolf fangs or something, i mean, poeple in real life go out of their way to add \"prosthetics\" into their look to make themselves more scary, in a world like eve with such great \"science\" why not do the same thing but real?tl;dr if they allow bloodline/race changes, i want to be able to give my minmatar alt wolf fangs, and my gallente alt something to look... whatever could be considered a weird hybrid look for gallente...feel free to scream no, and \"theres more important things\", personally i agree, and think taht before current content is fixed, everything else should be on the backburner, but long term, i think this could be fun.and no one go calling me a \"f****\", since im not talking taht extreme, just some fangs or whatnot, make the facial features a little wolfy, like wolvering or something, just for aesthetic appeal, and not mandatory either, just optional."
"yeah i was a little ignorant of the details and i thank you for that, but that is going to be another one of ccp's mistakes....or did microsoft want complete control? if so then i can understand ccp's reaction."
"oh and correct me if i'm wrong, but wouldn't sony try anything to help its sales right now and is ccp aware of just how insecure psn is? if they don't try to resolve that problem then this is just going to blow up in their faces. i'm mostly unaware of the specifics, but if you can clarify this i would greatly appreciate it."
"yes. ms would've hosted the game on xbl, would not have allowed integration to eve, and i believe wanted pay-for-upgrades limited to something in the 60 or 100 mb range (over the life of the product).all things that would have been bad(tm) for dust the way ccp envisions it."
"what i noticed is that they seem to have clammed up after the emergency call for the csm meeting, i'm a bit worried about that to be honest."
"obviously you're not reading their blogs, reading fhc, or watching twitter. they have done the exact opposite of clamming up."
"i do follow themseleene hasn't updated his blog since the call, and has only had 4 tweets since then compared to a much higher volume in the days before the call.pretty much the same for all of them."
"i agree with the op myself on the first point especially, we do need a ui, and ive been having the idea of actually just dumping the current (1999 style ui)for a more modernish aproach and one we seem to be seeing in ccps false advertising clips.but ofcourse with difference, so called mode buttons, one button for each mode, showing relevant info and nothing else not related to that specific mode.for instance a button saying combat mode, it would change out the whole ui info and move it off to the bottoms and sides so you can actually see the targets and all, while on the sides we get our normal locking list we currently have, on one side, and maybe something else related to drones on the other side.while on the lower side of the screen a few bars or just something similar would show up with shields, armor, hull and cap.and then in industry mode it would show more to the middle and atached to the ship on the sides of it, the whole market and on the left/right side atached to the ship, info related to the item selected in the market.ofcourse this idea of mine is just up for improvement aswell.greets jessy.ps: excuse my bad spelling and punctuation, have been awake a long while, while writing this post."
"+1 to opccp, let's see a separation of docking and cq, let the cq be something the pilots choose to enter.bring back the spinning :("
"it serves as a tech demo but with absolutely no content right now. i'm very supportive of things that move us away from spreadsheets online (and incarna is a much better new player experience than what existed before) but it's hard to get excited until you can actually do fun things with it."
"someone form csm said monday.so were are the csm may meetings? more than 1 month as gone by!!!!"
"i want to make the request that the minutes from the meeting are indeed provided. off course i can only speak for myself but for me a statement and clarifications are not enough. i would like to see this as a transparent process.thanks for considering my statement."
"why in the world would this even be a question?trust is in short supply right now in eve. the players want to know what is happening and why, and i am at a complete loss in attempting to understand why the csm would not push for as many answers and as much transparency as possible.the csm cannot force ccp to do anything it doesn't want to do. but the csm can and should aggressively represent player interests, and then provide detailed minutes so that players can make up their own minds about what's going on and the future direction of eve online. keeping the meetings secret will only serve to further agitate an already upset playerbase."
"they are, and they will be released as soon as we agree that they correctly portray the stance each participant had."
"the reason why tweeter sucks as a form of information distribution."
"in the assmbly hall there was made a topic about ships and what was broken to that. there also was a voting topic about what was needed fixed the most. i remember some issues came up pretty high. until now nothing happend to it, has it become a dead horse? evently if u keep pushing this forward it is not going anywere..."
"don't get ****ed off at ccp or better yet do if you feel like it, just don't react foolishly. if you don't like what ccp is doing just boycott the new market system and the new currency."
"have you even glanced at the 400+ page threadnarok that ccp started? i think that there is something like... 4 ccp posts total in that. that was supposed to be the \"resolve it with common sense\" thread, which turned into deafening silence from ccp.the protest in jita was initially to get more people (who normally ignore this part of the game) informed about the entire mess... and then, well, someone found out that you can shoot the statue without getting concordokken... this protest has, in my estimation, done more than the mass unsubs, and the request for parley from ccp pann that ... well... wasn't (rl emergency or some such for pann). the protest has been featured by nearly every gaming news site out there == bad pr for ccp == \"oh **** guys, what do we do now!?\" from ccp.soon as the csm summit is over, and the people who have been protesting get the information we all want to hear, then it'll go back to normal. in the time being, sell hyper-inflated ammo"
"one did but you didn't miss much.was tweeting between lubing his backside"
"[15:11] vee: this black screen is sponsored by new york pizza, please click here to order because you<U+FFFD>ll ****ing be here a while lol"
"some nice ideas here :)"
"very funny, however the fool here is you; not sure you've noticed that our bodies aren't original."
"no, were clones, but you have to realize taht dna is dna, and screwing with that realistically gives the chance of leaving you a pile of goo, or a girl with bunny ears, depending on the mood of the facility technitian...but seriously, a clone is a clone, if you change a clone, its not a clone, its a brand spanking new person, and im not sure how eve lore/fluff deals with the whole \"can a capsuleers brain copy thing be implanted into a different body\"...now that i mention it, if they allow this, why not add the ability to \"bribe\" null-sec cloning facility technitians to let you modify the clone they have their sp saved in? would be lulzy, and make just as much since as altering a clone to be a different bloodline imo*edit* were assuming 1) capsuleers are filthy stinking rich comapred to the average new eden citizen, correct? and 2) cloning technology and genetic manipulation has advanced to the point where capsuleer cybernetics and near-perfect cloning is actually considered convenient and ordinary, right? why not have some extreme genetic manipulation for some of the \"wealthier\" more \"eccentric\" capsuleers? i mean, to go along with being able to change bloodline, if taht can be supported by lore, then why not something weird?in other words, i would accept this so long as 2 things occur, they allow weirder things when your remaking your character, perhaps animal characteristics (especially wolf characteristics for something like the minmatar just to look like a badass frakkin hunter) and 2) they found a way to do this without alot of people changing bloodlines in a corp taht the corp leader does not have the skill for alowing other bloodlines in corp."
"<3 with most of those models/paintjobs"
